InfoWars: tomorrow's news. today, The Cloward-Piven strategy was developed by Richard Cloward and Francis Piven in the 1960s. It outlines a strategy for radical social change by way of abusing the system to the point of destruction. You know, we were associated with the social work tradition which said that the programs worked as they were supposed to work, but they didn't work as they were supposed to work. And it was out of that realization, that insight, that we developed the strategy to end poverty, which called for a massive mobilization of social workers and lawyers and organizers to get people the benefits to which they were entitled. We were proposing a kind of movement that demanded what people were already entitled to by law, by regulation, by propaganda. The primary goal of the Cloward-Piven strategy is to create a political and economic crisis that would destroy capitalism and lead to the implementation of a socialist system with a guaranteed income. The strategy involves enrolling large numbers of people into the welfare system- As many people as it takes to overwhelm and strain the system until it collapses. everyone enrolled into the welfare system is also used as an army to carry out the destruction of the current system. They are registered to vote and instructed on how to vote. They're organized and mobilized and made to appear as grassroots organizations demanding more from the system. The ideal outcome of the Cloward-Piven strategy is to collapse the current system. According to their theory, this will compel the government to implement a universal basic income, which would then shift the US towards a more socialist system with increased government control over the economy. Everyone is being encouraged to do it. Burn it down is the new sexy ring. In high school. they compare it to the American Revolution. The Cloward-Piven strategy is a political gambit designed to overwhelm the American government by placing so many demands on the bureaucratic structure that it collapses. It's sort of a shock and awe campaign, a surprise attack on entrenched systems meant to force major changes to the ways that things are handled by the government. It may be messy, but it does hearken back to a fundamental ideology of the American Republic. If it ain't fixed, break it. All of this explains the likes of AOC. What people like AOC are doing, what the squad is doing, is really very important, very important. But at the same time there is this movement which is so big. Some people say it's the biggest movement in American history. It's hard to know, because it's hard to measure a movement, But it is big and it is interracial and it penetrates into every small town. I now am in upstate New York. The town I'm closest to has maybe 2,000 people. You know we have little demonstrations in front of the post office for Black Lives Matter, And this is Trump country. Nevertheless, there is a Black Lives Matter demonstration. So it's a very potent and important moment in American political development And we have to make the most of it because if we don't, we don't know what's going to happen, but it's not going to be good. Reporting for InfoWars. this is Greg Reese. You know it's funny. the left claims they want to overwhelm the system, to break it, And they say, oh, that's like 1776.. Well, here's an idea. I don't like the FBI. Why don't we just shut it down? How about we don't collapse the country? How about we identify the problematic bureaucracies and just shut them down? No, they'd rather destroy things. That's what they're into. Please give me one minute of your time. Please write this down and please go look this up. It will change your life. The UN admits and the Lansing Medical Journal admits that upwards of two billion people have mental disabilities and declining cognitive abilities. The term they use is intellectual disability because of lack of iodine. Most iodine in the environment is bound to other elements, so your body can't absorb it. Only pure iodine can really be absorbed right into the cells, And InfoWarsTorecom has the only iodine out there that actually has this type of full effect. Ladies and gentlemen, X3 has been sold out for six months. It's very hard to produce And it's finally back in stock. In fact, I was just taking some before I shot this ad. This, ladies and gentlemen, is powerful. You and your family need it. It's 25% off, back in stock. X3, triiodine- exclusively at InfoWarsTorecom. Take action now, But regardless, research is info. Broadcasting live from the UN stronghold, Austin, Texas. you're listening to The Alex Jones Show And now your host, Owen Troyer. An honor and privilege to be with you here on this Monday, May 22nd 2023.. You know, there's one thing I think we can all agree on. even you just heard from Cloward and Piven, right there. Is it fair to say that the US government is the primary source of the worst evil on the planet? Is it fair to say that? Is it fair to say that, in your experience in this life, that the US government is the most evil entity you've ever encountered? Think that might be fair to say. I think you could probably find people on all political spectrums that would agree with that. But see, the difference is: where do you then distribute the power? Do you distribute the power to the individual, in a self-government system, in a democratic republic, Or do you distribute the power to a centralized group that then determines how you will live your life? And ultimately, in the second situation, you end up becoming the source of evil, the government. And isn't that what is really at the spine of this news organization? Isn't that what is the guts of InfoWars? Isn't that the soul of this audience? The US government as it stands is the highest level evil entity on the planet. It is the most destructive interference in your life, And you'd think we, the people, all of us of this country, could at least agree on that. But oh, it's kind of like with the vaccines, isn't it? Remember when Trump was the president in the latter months of 2020, and we had the first COVID-19 vaccine, and you had Joe Biden and Kamala Harris and other members of the Democrat Party and the liberal leftist elite establishment. And what did they tell you? Do not get Trump's vaccine. I will never take Trump's vaccine. Trump's vaccine is the worst. It'll kill you. Don't take Trump's vaccine. Okay, Let me just write that down. Okay, Kamala Harris, Joe Biden, mainstream media, Democrat Party, Trump vaccine bad. Do not ever take Trump vaccine. It'll kill you Got it, Okay? Well then, what happened As soon as Biden got into office? all of a sudden, the vaccine was great. All of a sudden, the vaccine was spectacular. And it's so great in fact we should mandate it, even though we deny we mandated it. even though we did mandate it. That's how great it was. But the ingredients of the vaccine never changed. The manufacturers of the vaccine never changed. In fact, the vaccine itself. nothing changed at all. All that changed was that now Joe Biden was the president instead of Donald Trump. So now the vaccine is good. Now it's that same logic that the left would have you believe about the US government. Oh, when it's Bush, when it's Trump, their wars are bad. The US government, the executive branch, evil when they're in charge. and I wouldn't even disagree, necessarily, that it was evil when Bush was in. In fact, I would say, probably in my life, the only non-full evil entity that was in the White House was Donald Trump. Not saying he was perfect. He made plenty of mistakes, the vaccine being one of them, But I believe that was a mistake by Donald Trump. Big difference, Oh. but now that Biden and the Democrats are in control, no big deal. The government's back to being the good guys. If it's Obama, the government's are the good guys. If it's Biden, the government's are the good guys. If Trump's in office, the vaccine is bad. If Biden is office, the vaccine is good. So right there, you understand the logical fallacies, inconsistencies and just straight up lies. But I didn't even mean to go off on that jag. It's just when I saw the Gregory special report on the Cloward and Piven. it's funny to hear anti-establishment leftists talking about how evil the government is. It's like: oh yeah, here here, here here, Hi, I agree, Let's shut down the FBI and the CIA and the State Department. Well, no, no, no, no. We just need to run it. That's the problem. See, if you just put commies in charge, then everything will be better, What the hell? So we do have a lot on this, though, because it's all over the news, including the mainstream news, that the truth about the Durham report is extremely ugly. The truth about the Durham report is that it was indeed the Obama administration and then members of the deep state- FBI, CIA, what have you. they are the ones that ran a coup. They ran a coup in 2016, and then they ran a coup again in 2020, censoring the Hunter Biden laptop story, just one of the instances. The impeachments against Donald Trump. it was all a coup. They're the ones running the coup. They're the ones running the insurrections And now everybody knows it. Even liberal members of the media are now opening up and being honest about what was in the Durham report, like Chuck Todd. So what does that mean? What does it mean that Joe Biden can't even open an umbrella, can't even walk upstairs, can't even ride a bike? He's in Japan embarrassing himself. And who is in charge of this man where he goes out on a bike ride and he's got that goofy helmet on? okay, fine, wear a bike helmet, safety first. whatever The point is, he rolls up on a bicycle in front of a media gaggle, like who organized this, And he's sitting there like a complete goofball, like a three-year-old kid with a bike helmet that's too big for him, like sliding off of his head on the bike that he can't even ride. He looks like a damn three-year-old. It's embarrassing, But I guess not nearly as embarrassing as the crimes his family has committed. Now McCarthy is balking, I think, saying the FBI is getting ready to charge, The FBI is getting ready to go after Biden. Why do you do this, McCarthy? Why do you do this? You're batting. you're like one for 100 as Speaker of the House. I mean, you are a miserable failure so far as Speaker of the House. And then you actually finally do something, last week, holding that press conference, making some strong statements, and then you follow that up by claiming that the FBI is finally going to do something. right, Oh, jeez, Oh. and you just lost all the ground that you gained and you go right back to zero, bottom of the barrel: ineffective, inept, incompetent, pathetic, potentially even corrupt. Now, speaking of corruption, it's how it all works. Jeffrey Epstein appeared to blackmail Bill Gates over his affair with a Russian bridge player. Whoa, Bill Gates, Russian bridge player? Hmm, Bill Gates colluding with the Russians? Is anybody else blackmailing Bill Gates over his Russian affairs? Is this why his wife eventually left him? We'll have more on that, more on the Durham report. They're telling you the big story is the debt ceiling today. Okay, sure, the clown debt, the clown currency. Yep, that's what you should be concerned about: the clown currency that they're just going to honk into oblivion. Some news out of Ukraine. The American left is now more racist. This is the most racist the American left has been, since they were wearing white hoods. And oh my gosh, what the left is wanting to do to children now, what the Democrats want to do to children, calling them trans kids. yeah, you won't even believe this. All of that and more coming up today on the Alex Jones Show. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth, the solution, is laying right there in front of you, hidden in plain view. Please listen to me in the next 60 seconds. If you go to Wikipedia, it has links to the UN's own website where they admit the number one cause of cognitive disability in the world is iodine deficiency. The number one preventable cause of intellectual disability is lack of real, pure iodine in the body. as they bomb us with the bad halogens, bromine, bromide, chlorine and so much more, Upwards of 2 billion people in a Lancet Medical Journal study in 2007, worldwide have cognitive disabilities because they don't have high quality iodine. Most iodine is bound to other elements. you don't absorb it. We have X3, all three types of good iodine together that supercharges your body. X3 is now back in stock at InfoWarsTorecom. It's been sold out for over six months for 25% off X3, back in stock. Take action now, InfoWarsTorecom. Just weeks ago, I warned the world that the globalists were going to move against Tucker Carlson and take him off the air. People said, no way. he's the most powerful thing that ever happened. They've got quadrillions of stolen money. They only had Tucker Carlson on the air because they believe they can control him, But as soon as they figured out they couldn't, he was taken off the air. It's the same thing with InfoWars, But InfoWars is not owned by Fox or controlled by George Soros, or owned by Spotify, like Joe Rogan. We are only beholden to our viewers and our listeners, And when you support us, we're unstoppable. I'm not underwritten by Rupert Murdoch or by George Soros. I'm underwritten by you, which is we, the people. So I want to thank you for your support. encourage viewers and listeners to understand. please don't take InfoWars for granted. We're barely hanging on. We need your word of mouth, your prayer, your financial support, while getting great products at the same time at InfoWarscom. So don't procrastinate. go to InfoWarscom, get amazing products that keep us on the air and never submit to these tyrants. In the early 1900s, certain companies were off-gassing highly toxic fluoride gases into the atmosphere. The surrounding communities began to get sick. Laws were enacted to compel these corporations to install scrubbers to convert these gases into fluorosilicic acid, still highly toxic but containable. Now these companies had a stockpile of this poison and there was no affordable way to dispose of it. Lucky for them, one of their major stockholders was also the Secretary of the Treasury, who was responsible for the Public Health Service at the time, And by 1950, the US government began buying this toxic, untreated industrial waste product and dumping it into our drinking water. Reputable studies show that it's causing various cancers and other disease. With the Alexa Pure Pro, you can have clean drinking water and a remedy to this madness, Available now at InfoWarsStorecom. I want to say brain force is great. I want to say turbo force is amazing. it is. But if you took it with fish oil, it's like the fish oil is it? The fish oil's better than it, and that's an example of what I'm talking about. Fish oil is liquid energy: brain, body, heart, the cleanest, the best out there. Krill oil is the best and it'll give you the damn burps and I'm just sorry. you want something like this. you don't get stuff for free. The krill is hallucinogenic. it's so good in my view. I'm not making a medical statement here, but let me tell you something. and I eat five capulets of krill oil before I go to bed. I'm seeing Santa Claus that night. So your brain is made basically out of what fish oil is. So we don't make a big profit off of it. but you notice, I just obsess because whatever the best is we've got, I just can't lie to you. I just can't do it. InfoWarsStorecom, Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones. No where to run, no where to hide. that goes both ways. that goes for the satanic globalists. no where to run, no where to hide. that goes for us too. no where to run, no where to hide. that used to be the United States of America, but they got us in their clutches now, don't they? Last night, I did a classic talk radio format transmission, with callers discussing a single topic, which was: who is your front runner for 2024, with the ultimate backdrop being the understanding that the establishment, the deep state, is already getting their ducks in a row to select and to put in their own candidate, which is obviously not Donald Trump. And so there's more on this today and yesterday and I got to tell you. it's a surreal thing because I've been broadcasting for over 10 years and when you see something in the news and you take it to your broadcast, that's part of the process. well, now it seems like everywhere I turn, every station, every radio station, every internet show, what have you? it seems that now their narratives, their talking points, are pulled right from InfoWars. Now I have no way of knowing whether they're actually getting the talking points of their narratives from InfoWars, if they're listening to us or not, but it would be hard to believe if they're not. but that would be even better news that they're getting it for themselves. I mean, it's everywhere I go. It's like every guest on the Tim Pool show, guests that they have on Fox News. I can just tell the Fox executives probably clenching their you-know-whats when these guests go on the air, like what happened on Fox News. Former Deputy National Security Advisor claims FBI, CIA and DOJ will rig 2024 presidential election after successfully rigging 2016 and 2020 elections. Now this is former Deputy National Security Advisor under Donald Trump, Katie McFarland. She was on with Maria Bartiromo and she was discussing the Durham report, amongst other things, and she's alleging that the Justice Department, the FBI and the CIA are planning a coup for the 2024 presidential election. Now this is already ongoing. this is already ongoing with all of the political persecution of Donald Trump supporters, the continued political persecution of Donald Trump himself. And you know we tend to forget. sure, we'll ask how many federal agents were on the ground on January 6th provocateuring events. It's like we found out in the fake plot to kidnap Governor Whitmer. you say well, how many FBI agents were a part of that plot? and it turned out, of the 20 people involved, 17 of them were feds. And then the three guys that weren't feds that got entrapped in this scheme, clearly orchestrated and run by Democrats: 17 FBI agents set up three men and they get arrested. So we understand, okay, they put people out in the field, they run entrapment schemes, they run provocateur schemes. they've got field agents running all kinds of shenanigans whenever there's big events like this, but we tend to forget Operation Mockingbird. We tend to forget Operation Mockingbird, highlighted in the JFK files, where the CIA and the FBI had their people in the media telling you the false narrative. But now we forget. Is it insane to wonder how many federal agents might be on television every day posing as newscasters. Is that crazy? Have I lost my mind? Because the media is every bit a part of this coup against the American people and Donald Trump and every bit a part of this coup against our elections- to rig elections. So am I crazy to think? hmm, if former national security advisors are warning about the FBI, the CIA and the DOJ rigging elections- and I already know that the mainstream media likes to lie in regards to elections as well- well, when do we start asking the question: how many members of the media are actually federal agents? Or have I completely lost my mind? Or does Operation Mockingbird not even exist? Or did the revelations in the JFK files talking about their operatives in the media just not exist? Thank God for Maria Bartiromo. Her Sunday morning show breaks news almost every week now. I wonder if there'll be a new lawsuit that gets her off the air, like they did to Tucker Carlson. And then there's RFK- and I'm just going to be short on time here- Robert Kennedy Jr on Durham Report. The report is appalling. You have 50 top-level CIA agents who agree to collaborate in a project to fix the election. Here's presidential candidate Robert F Kennedy Jr. The Democrats don't like and the mainstream media is not really talking about the Durham Report, But for me, because I've been concerned for so many years about the CIA's illegal propagandizing American people, which it's not legally allowed to do, that report is appalling. And it's not just the report and the guy who did it which you can say, okay, you know he had some motive or whatever. but you know it's the transcripts of the conversations that the CIA and FBI agents were having, where they were acknowledging that what they were doing was wrong, that it had no basis. And so you have the CIA coming in, 50 CIA top-level CIA agents who agree to collaborate in a project to fix an election and to discredit one of the candidates. And you know I'm not, I don't like Donald Trump, I don't think he was a good president and he, you know. but people are allowed to disagree with that And I can be friends with people who don't agree with me and I can listen to their point of view. And you know we need to apply rules across the board. We can't just say it's okay to shut up Donald Trump, It's okay for CIA agents to, you know, to fix an election against him. Yeah, exactly, It's unbelievable. how many people have this binary thinking? because I'll say something about this, like how you know horrible this whole you know Russian investigation was. And people would be like, oh so you love Donald Trump? And I'm like, no, I think Donald Trump was a horrible president on many fronts. I think, like I will never forgive Donald Trump for funding the Saudi war in Yemen. I will never forgive Donald Trump for blowing up budgets in the reckless way that he did, And I will never forgive him for keeping Fauci as the head of the task force through all of 2020.. Or how about locking down the whole country, Yeah, and supporting it at least, as the governors were doing it? However, I can also look at the information here and go: look, it's pretty clear that this was a frame job And what you have here is the intelligence agencies framing the sitting president of the United States for treason. Now let's come back and unpack that on the other side- And there's one thing missing here. There's one thing missing here. I'll explain. on the other side, Sold out for more than a year, we now have back in stock a limited run of our extremely popular tooth whitening- coral calcium toothpaste full of essential oils- back in stock at InfoWarsStorecom. Another great product sold out for almost a year is our activated charcoal essential oil toothpaste as well. These are both incredible for your gums, polish your teeth, amazing to counter gingivitis, and they fund the InfoWars. There are no fillers in these products. These are fluoride free, next level toothpaste- 10,000 of each tube, limited run, available exclusively at InfoWarsStorecom, And your purchase funds the operation plus. these are incredible products you need. So the coral calcium tooth whitening and the activated charcoal essential oil toothpaste are now both back in stock at InfoWarsStorecom. I thank you for your support, but regardless, these are great products you need. so take action now. Go to InfoWarsStorecom for both this great toothpaste back in stock. This is Adam King, host of The Adam King Show, joined by the one and only Greg Reese of The Reese Report. If you wanted to hop on and send everybody to InfoWarsStorecom, click this QR code right above Greg Reese. buy yourself a Faraday cage, super male vitality, or what Greg has. Greg, what do you got there? If you really want to treat yourself to something nice, get yourself an Alexa Pure water filter and get clean, healthy water whenever you want it, wherever you want it, Even if the water pressure goes out. the Gravity Fed water filter has got you covered Absolutely And we couldn't do any of this without listener support. I was telling Greg earlier we're like the real NPR, the real NPR of The Based Right. so click that QR code right there on your screen right now. Take out your phone, Click that QR code. It'll take you directly to InfoWarsStorecom. Buy something, Support The Info War. Keep Alex Jones, Lauren Troyer, Harrison Smith, Greg Reese, Adam King and the rest of us on air. Do it today, Do it now. Support The Info War. TurboForce is back, sold out for eight months and it's TurboForce Plus. We made it even stronger, The strongest long-term energy you're going to find anywhere. TurboForce is back in stock at InfoWarsStorecom or 888-253-3139.. It's not just wide-spectrum natural herbs. that time-release over 10 hours should be called 10-hour energy. It has a bunch of vitamins and minerals and a bunch of other key things and amino acids that turbocharge everything and are good for your heart, your brain, your liver, you name it. It is the super fuel. RainForce Plus is great. RainForce Ultra is great. They're two different nootropics. They go good with this. but this is the King Kong. This is the boss. TurboForce back in stock, discounted, InfoWarsStorecom. More power, more strength, more energy- and there's about 1,000 left of them right now. Get your copy of The Great Reset and The War for the World, a signed copy at InfoWarsStorecom. There is a markup there because this is a fundraiser to keep us on the air. so you won't just have this historic memento and this powerful book, you'll also know that you helped keep InfoWars on the air. I'm going to thank those of you that have gotten signed copies of the book or unsigned copies, but I want to encourage all of you who haven't yet to go to InfoWarsStorecom and get a signed copy and buy a couple of unsigned copies and donate them to the library or give them to the local school. This is an InfoWar. I'm counting on you and thank you for your support. We now take you live to the Central Texas Command Center in the heart of the resistance And now your host, Owen Troyer. You know one thing I like about RFK- that he may even have an edge on Trump- is he's an honest man. I'm not saying Trump is a bona fide liar, but he has lied to us, specifically about the vaccines, and so that's not something I forget or take lightly. Now, again, I'm not a purist and it's a very complex thing weighing potential political candidates, presidential candidates, in my view, And while I might disagree with Robert Kennedy Jr on a lot of things. having an honest man is extremely important and maybe in some regards, more important than policy. I think there's a balance there. But I want to go back to this clip for a second because I want to highlight something and unpack something, And I see this trend all the time and I call it out all the time as well. It's kind of like the Elon Musk interview that went viral last week on CNBC, when the guy says: well, don't you think that people will get upset if you say something negative about George Soros or if you say something negative about trans kids, And Musk just kind of sits there indifferent. like what is this interview here? Because it's this implication, it's this overarching implication, that somehow having a conservative view or maybe having a right-wing view on something, or even a centrist view at this point is somehow controversial And somehow everyone will disagree with you, when really the exact opposite is true. But let's say Elon Musk came out and said: I think abortion is great. Do you think the CNBC interviewer would have said: you know, you said you like abortion, Don't you think that would anger people? No, he wouldn't say that, because you're just supposed to accept that left-wing ideologies and left-wing policies are popular when they're not. So you can say all kinds of liberal BS. You can talk about chopping off kids' genitals. You can talk about aborting your children. You can talk about all this other crap, And nobody in the media will sit there and say, hmm, do you maybe think you shouldn't say that because you might upset some people? But oh, you mention how George Soros is funding all these prosecuting attorneys and completely overwhelming the justice system and you say you don't like it. All of a sudden, that's controversial and maybe you shouldn't say that. So it's this implication, this applied understanding that somehow the left-wing ideology and the left-wing worldview is the consistent one that we should all be thinking about and it's the center of all of our ideologies and beliefs and everything stems from that and anything against that nucleus is just wrong and controversial. So it's the same thing here in this RFK interview- and I want to unpack this- It's the same thing. So, oh, Elon Musk said something about George Soros. Oh, that's controversial. People are going to be upset with you. But if he said he loves to chop up kids' genitals or he loves to abort babies, they wouldn't have asked that. It wouldn't have been controversial. It would have been great. They would have celebrated it. That's propaganda right there. That's propaganda right there. and see, Elon Musk is smart, He knows it. That's why he doesn't even blink during that interview. but let me show you another example of this in the RFK interview. Now, I have no problem with RFK saying Trump is a bad president. I have no problem with the host of the interview saying Trump was a bad president. but I want you to listen to it again and I want you to hear exactly what I'm talking about. So here they are saying why they don't like Trump. but let's watch this again and listen to this again and let's ask the obvious question here, which is: why are you scolding Trump for that? Here it is. Well, I don't like Donald Trump. I don't think he was a good president, but people are allowed to disagree with that And I can be friends with people who don't agree with me and I can listen to their point of view, and we need to apply rules across the board. We can't just say it's okay to shut up Donald Trump. It's okay for CIA agents to fix an election against him, Exactly. It's unbelievable how many people have this binary thinking. because I'll say something about this, like how horrible this whole Russian investigation was, and people would be like, oh so you love Donald Trump? And I'm like, no, I think Donald Trump was a horrible president on many fronts. I will never forgive Donald Trump for funding the Saudi war in Yemen. I will never forgive Donald Trump for blowing up budgets in the reckless way that he did, and I will never forgive him for keeping Fauci as the head of the task force through the whole of 2020.. Okay, so pause it right here. So, okay, fair criticism of Donald Trump, Totally fair. I'm sorry, what was the host's name? again, I was trying to listen guys. What was it? Dave Smith, Dave Smith? So I have no problem with Dave Smith's analysis there. But you see, the same assumptions are happening there in that interview. that happened in the CNBC interview: Donald Trump funding the Yemen-Saudi Arabia war. That's been going on for decades. That's been going on long before Donald Trump ever got into office. Ask Obama about that. The atrocities going on in Yemen are decades old. Now I'm not defending Donald Trump, trying to win favor with the Saudis by supporting them, But see, it's the same thing All the other politicians, candidates- you can fund Saudi Arabia forever. They can destroy Yemen forever, But Donald Trump is the problem. Donald Trump is the problem. Donald Trump, blowing up the budgets? You're absolutely right. Donald Trump definitely blew up the budgets, cannot deny it. So did every other single president before him. Does that make it right? No, But did the other presidents get the same criticism? How about Anthony Fauci? Anthony Fauci has been in the US government. for what? four decades, five decades. The major AIDS scandal that they made a movie about, Dallas Buyers Club. yeah, you know the bad guy in the movie Dallas Buyers Club that killed all those gay men, That was Anthony Fauci. So, yeah, was Donald Trump wrong to put Fauci in charge? Absolutely. Is that a fair criticism of Donald Trump? Yes, But again, where is all the criticism of Fauci? He's been in government for 50 freaking years, But now Trump is the bad guy because he put Fauci in the government, even though he's been there for 50 years, including the massive AIDS scandal. So you see, it's the same thing. It's like: oh, wow, you say something bad about George Soros. oh boy, people are going to be really upset about that. But hey, you say something positive about trans kids or abortion or something like that. hey, no controversy there, We don't need to worry about your potential customers or clients worrying about that right, Because everybody loves that. It's the same thing. Oh, Donald Trump funded the Saudi Yemen war, So did everyone before him. Oh, Donald Trump blew up the buzzards, So did everybody before him. Oh, Donald Trump put Fauci in the government. He was already in government for five decades. So it's like this weird thing. It's like anything on the right wing, anything conservative, anything Republican is already bad, Even if it's been going on long before they were in. even though, if it's actually populist to say George Soros is a problem, No, If you don't have the establishment left wing view, then somehow you're criticized. Or if you come into office and do the exact same thing every president before you has done, but your name is Donald Trump, you're the one to blame. Now again, the interview there. I think it's powerful. Everything he says is accurate. I'm not denying it. Here's what's missing. Here's what's missing from Ben Weingarten: Real, clear investigations. The Durham report indicts the deep state and the media. Yeah, Except here's the problem: Nobody's been indicted. See, that's the problem. Nobody's been indicted. Everybody knows it happened. Everybody knows the media lied to us. The media at this point should know that they were lied to by the intelligence agencies, or maybe they're a part of them- And yet no indictments, No charges. So you see, it's the same thing. It's the exact same thing. Well, because they were going against Donald Trump, because they were going against the American right, because they were going up against the Republican Party and conservative values, it's OK, We don't need any indictments. I don't even know how to properly lay out this phenomenon. I don't know if there's even a word for it. Propaganda is what it is, but it's like. is it Stockholm syndrome? that we just assume we should, just everything should stem from the left wing, even though the populist movement is clearly on the right wing here. Sold out for more than a year, we now have back in stock a limited run of our extremely popular tooth whitening coral calcium toothpaste full of essential oils, back in stock at InfoWarsStorecom. Another great product sold out for almost a year is our activated charcoal essential oil toothpaste as well. These are both incredible for your gums, polish your teeth, amazing to counter gingivitis, And they fund the InfoWars. There are no fillers in these products. These are fluoride free, next level toothpaste- 10,000 of each tube, limited run, available exclusively at InfoWarsStorecom. Your purchase funds the operation Plus, these are incredible products you need. So the coral calcium tooth whitening and the activated charcoal essential oil toothpaste are now both back in stock at InfoWarsStorecom. I thank you for your support, but regardless, these are great products you need. So take action now. Go to InfoWarsStorecom for both this great toothpaste back in stock. The most banned man in America, Alex Jones. I want you all to know something. Alex Jones was right. Alex is right about far more than is wrong. Alex has been right on for over a decade. I don't care how you slice it, dice it, flip it up or rub it down. Alex Jones was right. Think about how frustrated we are. if you've been awake for a year or two. Imagine being like an Alex Jones or those guys who've been awake for like decades. Alex Jones called this years ago, years ago. Alex Jones never bought the Russia hoax- Not for a second. You are one of the great thinkers of this. You are a martyr to the First Amendment. The government fears Alex Jones. That's why the globalists hate me is because I'm exposing their corporate worldwide tyranny. I want to say BrainForce is great. I want to say TurboForce is amazing. It is, But if you took it with fish oil, it's like the fish oil, is it? The fish oil is better than it, and that's an example of what I'm talking about. Fish oil is liquid energy, brain, body, heart. the cleanest, the best out there. Krill oils is the best and it'll give you the damn burps and I'm just sorry. You want something like this. you don't get stuff for free. The krill is hallucinogenic. it's so good in my view. I'm not making a medical statement here, but let me tell you something. I eat five capulets of krill oil before I go to bed. I'm seeing Santa Claus that night. So your brain is made basically out of what fish oil is. So we don't make a big profit off of it. but you notice, I just obsess because whatever the best is we've got, I just can't lie to you. I just can't do it. This is Adam King, host of The Adam King Show, joined by the one and only Greg Rees of The Rees Report. We wanted to hop on and send everybody to Infowarsstorecom. click this QR code right above. Greg Rees, buy yourself a Faraday cage, super male vitality, or what Greg has. Greg, what do you got there? If you really want to treat yourself to something nice, get yourself an Alexa Pure water filter and get clean, healthy water whenever you want it, wherever you want it, Even if the water pressure goes out. the Gravity Fed water filter has got you covered Absolutely, and we couldn't do any of this without listener support. I was telling Greg earlier we're like the real NPR, the real NPR of The Based Right. so click that QR code right there on your screen right now. Take out your phone, click that QR code. it'll take you directly to Infowarsstorecom. Buy something, support The Infowar. keep Alex Jones, Orange Warrior Harrison Smith, Greg Rees, Adam King and the rest of us on air. Do it today. do it now. support The Infowar Defeating a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones Bullying the streets. it's up to my ankles. Sheathing the streets. it's up to my knees. Sheathing the streets. the town of Chicago, Sheathing the streets. it's up to my ankles. Sheathing the streets, the town of Chicago, Sheathing the streets. it's up to my knees. Sheathing the streets, the town of Chicago, Sheathing the streets. it's up to my ankles. Sheathing the streets. it's up to my ankles. Sheathing the streets all the way to Syracuse. sheathing the streets. it's up to my ankles. Sheathing the streets. it's up to my ankles. Sheathing the streets all the way to Syracuse. sheathing the streets. it's up to my ankles. Sheathing the streets all the way to Syracuse. sheathing the streets. it's up to my ankles. Sheeting the streets all the way to Syracuse. sheathing the streets. it's up to my ankles. sheathing the streets. it's up to my ankles. sheathing the streets. it's up to my ankles. Sheathing the streets. it's up to my ankles. sheathing the streets. it's up to my ankles. Sheathing the streets. it's up to my ankles. Sheathing the streets. it's up to my ankles. Sheeting the streets. it's up to my ankles. Sheeting the streets. it's up to my ankles. Sheeting the streets. it's up to my ankles. Sheeting the streets. it's up to my ankles. Sheeting the streets. it's up to my ankles. I won't do it. The crew would have to clean it up. Here we go, There you go. Alright, Let's get back to business now. TurboForcePlus InfowarsStorecom- 15 servings- I thought it was 30, so that just shows you how great it is. Alright, Biden gets low ratings on economy, guns, immigration in AP NORC poll. You know I got to tell you too, I'm not like somebody that likes to eavesdrop per se, but when you work in radio and media you develop a very keen sense of sound, Because, well you can imagine. I mean I've got my earpiece in my ear, I'm listening to the crew talking to me, Sometimes I'm listening to clips, Sometimes you're talking while doing all of this, Sometimes you're on the phone and you need to listen to something. So I've got a very keen sense And it's like, everywhere I go, if I hear somebody talking politics, it's how bad Biden is, how bad the country has been since he got into office. And these don't sound like Trump supporters, by the way. These sound like politically indifferent or apathetic people that are just looking at the neutrally observable fact that life in America has gotten worse under Joe Biden. But hey, 700 gajillion votes and most popular president of all time, but low ratings on pretty much every important indicator in a presidential election cycle- Economy, immigration, security- he's pulling extremely low. But hey, hey, hey, when he gets that nomination from the popular RFK Jr. And then he beats Donald Trump without even having to campaign, with the perfect amount of votes, showing up at the exact right time before the buzzer. You better not ask any questions, You better not execute your First Amendment right or you're going down at the hands of the US government. And I've got other news on that as well. folks, I'm telling you, I'm telling you it's not properly understood- the evil wickedness that is the Democrat Party. And you know, I've decided because I don't want to be labeled a Republican, I'm not a Republican, I lean Republican, I'm a Republican voter because their policies are obviously best for the country. But there tends to be this thing where if you say negative things about the Democrat Party, people just assume that means you think positively about the Republican Party, when that's not the case. But no, The Democrat Party needs to be understood by the American people as Some of the worst political movements in the history of the world When it comes to targeting their political opposition, destroying their political opposition, imprisoning their political opposition, silencing their political opposition. And do I have to tell you where that all leads? But let's get back to the Biden news. Debt ceiling negotiations crumble, McCarthy and Biden to hold Sunday call as impasse intensifies. Can you imagine being on a phone call with Joe Biden? What do you think that is like? Can you imagine the confusion? So now, today, on debt ceiling, Biden and McCarthy to meet Monday as negotiations keep working to resolve standoff. And then what is McCarthy's problem? McCarthy knows the Biden crime family. McCarthy knows Joe Biden is corrupt. And he just goes in there and has these clown debt ceiling meetings as if everything is cool, as if Joe Biden's the real president. the clown debt: What are we at? like thirty eight trillion in debt. now It's like ninety six, Ninety six thousand dollars of debt per US household. Oh, and see, now you know why they hate your cryptocurrency so much. All I got news on that coming up. Majority of Americans believe Joe Biden committed impeachable offenses. This poll shows. Rasmussen poll found Fifty three percent of Americans believe Joe Biden committed high crimes and misdemeanors since taking the White House in 2021.. And now the T word is getting thrown around a lot, including from Donald Trump, And that is not something to be taken lightly. And I'll tell you that the T word is the. I mean, that's like Voldemort in DC folks, That's like Voldemort in DC. You don't say the T word because they know that up and down the streets of Washington DC, in the Capitol building, treason gets committed every single day by these crooks. Every single day, they're committing treason against you. Every single day, they're committing treason against your Constitution and your Bill of Rights. But don't talk about it. No, don't talk about it. And people continue to ask. and, by the way, it's not just left-wingers, it's not just David Hogg. There have been conservatives that this has happened to as well, like Laura Loomer, And, by the way, I support David Hogg's right to free speech. But people ask me, they say Owen, and they send me all these examples. Owen, here's a bunch of other people doing exactly what you did, but actually theirs was even longer and they even resisted the arrest. Yours was in less time and you cooperated with law enforcement. How come you're still in court every month for the disruption of Congress with Jerry Nadler? that happened in December of 2019? Yeah, I'm in court every month and gonna be in court again in June. Say Owen, why are you still in court dealing with this stuff? Everybody else that does this they get: either the case is tossed out or it's finished within the first court date. Why are you still dealing with it? Because I said the T-word. folks, That's a no-go zone. You don't say the T-word in the Capitol. You don't say the T-word in front of these politicians. That's why I'm still being politically persecuted, Because I said it right to their face. And now Speaker McCarthy says FBI is ready to turn over damning document alleging criminal bribery scheme involving Joe Biden And then the FBI tells him to pound sand. McCarthy, you're not that dumb, are you, McCarthy? you don't live under that illusion, do you? The FBI has been well aware of the Biden crime family for at least four years and has done nothing. Please give me one minute of your time. Please write this down and please go look this up. It will change your life. The UN admits, and the Lansing Medical Journal admits, that upwards of two billion people have mental disabilities and declining cognitive abilities. The term they use is intellectual disability because of lack of iodine. Most iodine in the environment is bound to other elements, so your body can't absorb it. Only pure iodine can really be absorbed right into the cells, And Infowarsstorecom has the only iodine out there that actually has this type of full effect. Ladies and gentlemen, X3 has been sold out for six months. It's very hard to produce and it's finally back in stock. In fact, I was just taking some before I shot this ad. This, ladies and gentlemen, is powerful. You and your family need it. It's 25% off. back in stock X3, try iodine exclusively at Infowarsstorecom. Take action now, But regardless. research is info. Iodine is naturally acquired through the soil, which is at the foundation of our entire food supply. Modern farming techniques have stripped the soil of this essential trace element, which has caused an iodine deficiency in about half the population, And there are two things we need to do about it. We need to practice more regenerative farming. There are plenty of proven technologies in permaculture and biodynamics that will naturally keep the soil rich with iodine, And we need to ensure that we get the sufficient amount of iodine every day, derived from ancient sea salts found thousands of feet below the earth's surface. Our Infowars Life Survival Shield X3 is, hands down, the best Pure, nascent iodine stabilized in an activated triiodine form For a healthy thyroid and a healthy metabolism. Get yours now at Infowarsstorecom. If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance. It's probably important that the American people understand the flow of power, if you will. Folks, these federal bureaucracies have no real jurisdiction, And it is actually upon Congress not just to do oversight, but also command and control, if that becomes the circumstance warranted. So let's just see how pathetic Kevin McCarthy is on this When he says that the FBI is ready to turn over the documents showing the Bryden crime family bribery schemes and then the FBI won't do it. Well, Kevin, it's now your job to do something about it. The FBI, the FBI answers to Congress, The FBI answers to Congress, But something, something very twisted, Something very dark has happened to this country, And now it seems that the FBI and the CIA are running the entire show, And it seems they are now above Congress, above the law, above the very republic that we call the United States of America, And I have zero faith in Kevin McCarthy to do anything about it- Zero. So this is going to be another cucking moment for Kevin McCarthy in my eyes. And, by the way, I want to be clear: I'm rooting for Kevin McCarthy. I'd love for Kevin McCarthy, who fought like hell for that gavel, to actually use it for good, to actually be an American hero, instead of another American loser that goes through Congress enriching himself, building his own prestige and legacy. I'd love for Kevin McCarthy to be an American hero. I'd love for Kevin McCarthy to actually do the right thing, But I have zero faith that he will And I really don't see any reason to believe he's going to do his job and make sure proper oversight or punishment happens at the FBI for all the crimes that they've committed. So what's the problem now For Kevin McCarthy, the Speaker of the House in Congress, who's supposed to be doing the oversight of the FBI? And when he says, hey, you guys need to release the Biden crime family documents now, And they say, screw you, Kevin. Well that's when Kevin McCarthy and the oversight committees are supposed to be taking action. So what is the holdup, Kevin? You're not all twisted in front of a fireplace with Frank Luntz now, are you? He doesn't have you pinned to the ground in front of a fireplace, does he Do? we need to send help. Even Chuck Todd, you can't even believe it. This is like eating out of the garbage. I mean, Chuck Todd floats church committee style investigation into FBI after fallout from Durham report, Citing how the people have lost trust in the FBI. Chuck Todd, meet the press. That's like a Democrat puppet, like a Democrat mannequin. They're calling it out. So say: it's RFK, it's the host of that interview, It's Chuck Todd. This is so open and shut, McCarthy. People on the left and the right know the FBI is corrupt And you still can't make a proper move. You still can't spearhead this movement. Oh, that's nice. You did a press conference last week, Good press conference. You said the right things. We'd like some action. We'd like some action now. OK, We can email Kevin McCarthy, We can call Kevin McCarthy's office. But do you agree with Kevin McCarthy? He thinks the FBI is going to turn on Biden. He thinks the FBI is going to release the documents. Did you not just see the hearing where the Democrats and the FBI were working together to destroy Donald Trump and silence his supporters? Did you not just see that hearing? Did you not see the Democrats pissed off because the FBI whistleblowers were showing the crimes that are run against the Democrats' political opposition? Ladies and gentlemen, the truth, the solution, is laying right there in front of you, Hidden in plain view. Please listen to me in the next 60 seconds. If you go to Wikipedia, it has links to the UN's own website where they admit the number one cause of cognitive disability in the world is iodine deficiency. The number one preventable cause of intellectual disability is lack of real, pure iodine in the body. as they bomb us with the bad halogens, bromine, bromide chlorine and so much more. Upwards of 2 billion people in a Lancet Medical Journal study in 2007, worldwide have cognitive disabilities because they don't have high quality iodine. Most iodine is bound to other elements. you don't absorb it. We have X3, all three types of the good iodine together that supercharges your body. X3 is now back in stock at Infowarsstorecom. It's been sold out for over six months for 25% off. X3 back in stock. Take action now, Infowarsstorecom. The answer to 1984 is 1776.. You're listening to The Alex Jones Show and now your host, Owen Troyer. What is wrong with Kevin McCarthy? He thinks the FBI is going to expose the Biden crime family. Kevin, are you even paying attention to your own House committee that just had the FBI whistleblowers up there with the Democrats running cover for the FBI and their criminal activity against Donald Trump and against Donald Trump supporters and against conservatives? Were you there, Kevin? Are you awake? Are you playing tiddlywinks with Joe Biden on the phone? I'm just confused, Kevin. if you even have a clue- the country that you're supposedly the Speaker of the House in- Just curious, Because, man, I mean it really seemed like you wanted that gavel badly. But where are you at bud? Where are you at? Court filing reveals FBI abused warrantless search powers more than 278 times in 2021.. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I read that wrong, guys. Let me just correct myself. Court filing reveals FBI abused warrantless search powers more than 278,000 times in 2021. Not 278 times, 278,000 times. Ah, yes, And notice what that date is: As soon as Joe Biden got into office. As soon as Joe Biden got into office. How do you even do that, Guys? can you pull up a calculator? What is 365? Or what is 278,000 divided by 365? Math is my weak point. I mean, what is that like? Is that like 200 warrantless searches a day? Somebody bail me out here. I'm a 21st century moron that can't do math. If we can get up a calculator here, Let's see. I'm so bad. Excuse me guys. 761 is what we have here. Is that correct? 761 warrantless searches in the year 2021.. As soon as Biden got into office. Am I hearing this right? Is that our math that we've done here? Well, it's actually. well. we round up here So it's actually 762.. You know, knowing this demonic government, I'm surprised they didn't go for the 666 number every day, Just for fun. you know, Just for funsies. Kind of like what they do with these COVID bills. like COVID bill 666.. We're going to inject you with this MRNA 6 bill 666.. It's like Bill Gates bill 060606.. Nanotechnology in your brains. It's like they don't even hide it anymore. So, geez, FBI, you actually missed your number. It was supposed to be 666 warrantless searches a day. You guys went over. You did 762.. As soon as Biden got into office: As soon as Biden got into office, 762 warrantless searches per day by the FBI. You know, I was thinking about this too, Because, again, I've covered this ad nauseum, So I don't want to go into the details here, But I was thinking about it. What does Trump need to do to really win over my unequivocal support? What would Trump have to do? Because right now it's more just like to me, Trump's the front runner. I'd like to see a potential revenge tour, redemption tour, And I mean I like RFK Jr, I just don't think he has a chance. I like Vivek Ramaswamy, I just don't think he has a chance. So it's like Trump's the one with the chance, Trump's the one that can get in there, Whether I think he's the best candidate or not. that's just my realistic take. But I'm thinking: what does Trump need to do to really win my full support again, like he had in 2016 and 2020?? And maybe he's thinking about this, But to me, the normal political timing for a presidential campaign is now thrown out the window. So forget about the normal timing to do things. Donald Trump needs to come out and he needs to actually put together his list of every nominee or every person he's going to put in charge. So, for example, Donald Trump should come out and say: I'm either going to fire Christopher Wray and abolish the FBI, or I'm going to fire Christopher Wray and here's who I'm going to put in charge. And he should do that for every cabinet seat, Because that's one of our biggest concerns about a potential President Trump is he's going to put the wrong people next to him again, He's going to put the wrong people in charge again and it's going to sabotage his presidency again. That's one of our biggest concerns. So he should probably put out a master list of all his potential nominees or all the different roles and cabinet positions and who he's going to fill them with, including what he's going to do with the corrupt FBI. I think that would be very important. But hey, I mean, you know who cares if the FBI does 700 and whatever warrantless searches a day as soon as Biden gets into office. They're Democrats now, so it's okay. It's kind of like with the vaccine: Hey, when Trump's in office, the vaccine is bad, But when Biden's in office, the vaccine is good. Same vaccine. So oh, if the FBI was doing this. when Trump was in office, it'd be abuse of power, They'd need to arrest, shut it down. But when Biden's in office, it's all good baby. And we know why. Bank of America handed FBI payment records of people in DC on January 6th, whether they were a suspect or not. Wow, So sorry to say, but whoever was involved in this at Bank of America probably needs to be subpoenaed, indicted, charged, And same thing with whoever was doing this at the FBI. So Kevin McCarthy Paging, Kevin McCarthy Paging Kevin McCarthy. But oh, McCarthy says the FBI is going to show us all the Biden crime documents they have. This is what you get, folks. You want to know what it's like when Democrats are in charge. You want to know what your future beholds when Democrats are in charge. Feel sympathy for Peter Schwartz, but understand this is your future under the current trajectory with Democrats in power and the abuses of power within the federal government. J6 political prisoner attacked by guards after complaining about raw sewage on the floor of his cell and asking for running water. And we've seen inside the cells. And let me- just because I get this question a lot- There's been a lot of January 6th defendants and prisoners that are doing interviews and people keep sending me their contacts saying they want to come on the show with me. Folks, I'm not allowed to talk to any January 6th defendants. I'm not allowed as part of my probation. So I'm not ignoring these men, I'm not ignoring these victims, but I'm not allowed to talk to them. OK, so I'm still being politically persecuted because of this. But the point is We've seen inside the cells there. They literally their toilets get overflowed and feces runs over. They don't have running water. The sewage just sits on the floor and just stinks up the room. I've been in the DC prisons. It's the worst prison you've ever seen. You can't even believe it. I don't even know how it's legal, But that's the treatment The January 6th defendants are getting. But understand this: That will be you. That will be you if you are not a good slave, If you dare not be a willing slave to the regime, If you dare not be a willing slave to their political Policies, ideologies, persecutions. If you don't go along with this regime currently operating out of the Democrat Party, They will censor you, They will debank you, They will try to destroy you, They will imprison you And you know what happens next. folks, If these sickos. If these sick freaks Inside the federal government and the Democrat Party Are willing to put non-violent, innocent men In a prison being flooded with raw sewage, You really think that's as far as they'll go? Ladies and gentlemen, the truth, The solution, is laying right there in front of you, Hidden in plain view. Please listen to me in the next 60 seconds. If you go to Wikipedia, It has links to the UN's own website Where they admit the number one cause of cognitive disability In the world is iodine deficiency. The number one preventable cause of intellectual disability Is lack of real, pure iodine in the body. As they bomb us with the bad halogens- Bromine, bromide chlorine And so much more. Upwards of 2 billion people In a Lancet medical journal study In 2007.. Worldwide have cognitive disabilities Because they don't have high quality iodine. Most iodine is bound to other elements. You don't absorb it. We have X3. All three types of good iodine Together It supercharges your body. X3 is now back in stock At InfoWarsTourcom. It's been sold out for over 6 months For 25% off X3. Back in stock. Take action now. InfoWarsTourcom. TurboForce is back Sold out for 8 months And it's TurboForce+. We made it even stronger- The strongest long term energy You're going to find anywhere. TurboForce is back in stock At InfoWarsTourcom Or 888-253-3139.. It's not just wide spectrum natural herbs That time release over 10 hours Should be called 10 hour energy. It has a bunch of vitamins and minerals And a bunch of other key things And amino acids That turbocharge everything And are good for your heart, Your brain, Your liver. You name it. It is the super fuel. RainForce Plus is great. RainForce Ultra is great. They're two different nootropics. They go good with this. But this is the king kong, This is the boss. TurboForce Back in stock, Discounted, InfoWarsTourcom. More power, More strength, More energy. We are only beholden to our viewers and our listeners And when you support us, we're unstoppable. I'm not underwritten by Rupert Murdoch Or by George Soros. I'm underwritten by you, Which is we, the people. So I want to thank you for your support And encourage viewers and listeners to understand. Please don't take InfoWars for granted. We're barely hanging on. We need your word of mouth, Your prayer, Your financial support, All getting great products at the same time At InfoWarsTourcom. So don't procrastinate. Go to InfoWarsTourcom, Get amazing products that keep us on the air And never submit to these tyrants. I talk a lot about the great successes InfoWars has had. I don't think anybody can deny it- And it is because of listeners and viewers supporting us. When we talk about the crew at InfoWars- People behind the scenes, The researchers, The writers- They really have been the MVP's in this fight. And when you look at Harrison Smith and Owen Schroer And the hard work they engage in every day- Five, six, seven days a week- It's really just incredible. So for myself and the whole InfoWars crew- I thank you for your past support. I only encourage you now to realize that InfoWars cannot stay on air if you do not support us. I know you spread the word. I know you pray for us And that's wonderful. Keep doing it. But most viewers and listeners never go to InfoWarsTourcom And you never buy great products that enrich and empower your life All at the same time. keep us on air. I know that less than 1% of our listeners actually go buy products at InfoWarsTourcom. If just 1% more of you took action and went to InfoWarsTourcom, Our funding problems will be over. Please take action now, Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. It's Alex Jones, Almost heaven, West Virginia, Blue Ridge Mountains, Shenandoah River. Life is old there, older than the trees, younger than the mountains growing like a breeze. Country roads. take me home to the place I belong: West Virginia. mountain mama. take me home. country roads. All right, ladies and gentlemen, back here, live on the Alex Jones Show. Where to go from here? Where to go from here? Well, sadly, I've got a stack of this absolutely disgusting stuff that the left wants to do to your kids. It's hard to really reason with this in any other way, shape or form, other than to just say: Are you guys pedophiles? Are you guys serial child abusers? Because that's what it looks like to the general public at this point, With your drag queen sexy time for kids shows, with your cancelling of gay pride parades, because you can't do lewd acts on the streets in front of children, With the pornographic material you want in the classrooms for them. Now I want to get into this news and I want to use this story as bookends, Because if you understand this, you understand what it's really all about. Oh my gosh, I'm getting nauseous watching this. If you're an audio listener, it's a male stripper dressed as a woman with a child, looks like maybe a six-year-old girl in the chair. Like you ever been to a bachelor party or you ever had a party with your friends and you'll have a dancer there And you put your bachelor friend on the chair and they do a little strip dance for them. Well, that's what they're doing to little girls now, with men pretending to be women, with their junk hanging out, And they put it right in front of these kids. folks, I mean, I don't know what else to tell you. That's what's going on here. It's hundreds of videos. Believe me, I'm as disgusted with it as you are. You think I like covering this crap? You think I like going to the Capitol and facing down these wicked monsters? So use this story as the bookends for this segment. America's most closeted state revealed Where residents come first in the nation for googling the terms: Am I gay, Am I lesbian? Am I trans? CCI study highlighted a nationwide increase of 1300% in searches related to sexual and gender identity questions since 2004.. Now, folks, who do you think is searching that on the internet? Children, And why do you think they're searching that on the internet? Because of the propaganda that the American left is feeding them in the classroom and in the media. You know, if you're gay, you probably know you're gay. Am I trans? Well, if you're trans, then you've had a surgery. So again, why are children all of a sudden, at an increase of 1300%, searching: Am I gay? Am I lesbian? Am I trans? Because they get introduced to all this propaganda. it confuses them, and so then they look it up because they're not sure, Because they're told all this bullcrap that doesn't actually make any sense to them. but they're told: no, this is normal, this is what you are. So they have to go to the internet to figure it out. So keep that in mind for a bookend. Lawmakers want answers on NIH trans kids study that led to two suicides. These people are sick freaks. They run trans kids experiments. They're experimenting with children. I mean, this is Dr Mengele level stuff. This is like Jekyll and Hyde Frankenstein. I mean, these are mad scientists using children for political experimentation. Oh, we're going to prove how great trans are for kids. And then two of them commit suicide. Republican lawmakers in the House and Senate have demanded answers from the National Institutes of Health over a two-year study involving prescribing gender-changing hormones to hundreds of children, as it emerged that two of the youths ended up killing themselves. Was that a successful study, liberals? Was that a successful experiment? leftists? I guess so. Two of them killed themselves. That's what you guys like. You're a death cult. You're mad. they got out of the womb, So let's chop them up. So again, two kids kill themselves because of a trans kid study- 1,300% increase in. am I gay? am I trans? Who's doing this? Where is this coming from? What is the source? Is this not evil? Target becomes the latest target of anti-woke boycott as it sells satanist, pride, LGBTQ plus products for kids. Folks, this is getting out of control. It's not just putting girls' clothes in the boys' aisle. It's not just putting, like an, I'm gay with a rainbow flag shirt in the boys' aisle. It's going to dark, sordid places. you can't even imagine Target under fire for selling clothing made by creepy, satanic transgender designer that promotes drugs and violence. Yes, folks, that's how bad it's gotten. They do studies where kids end up killing themselves. Now there's multiple threads on this currently on Twitter, If you want to find them. Scarlett Johnson has one, Aristos Revenge has one, And you can see. these people love to dress up as Satan. It's like they worship Satan. It's like I mean- I want to be accurate here. If I go around wearing a St Louis Cardinals shirt, do I worship the St Louis Cardinals baseball team? No, I'm just a fan. I'm just a fan. I like the logo, I like the team. Well, that's what they are with Satan. They like Team Satan, They like the Satan brand, They cheer for Team Satan. That's why they love abortion, That's why they love trans kids- because they're on Team Satan. So if I'm watching a Cardinal game and the Cardinals are winning, I'm saying, yeah, go Cardinals. These people see kids committing suicide. These people see kids getting murdered in the womb and they say, yes, go, Team Satan. And now Target is bringing them into your children's aisle. Folks, I'm telling you the stories at Infowarscom. I just can't even look at this sick crap. So, anyway, I wouldn't be shopping at Target if I were you. It's literally now beyond just the LGBTQ-themed stuff. It's satanic, drug-themed stuff And it's not even like, oh, I'll go, like I'll take my kid to a concert or something and they'll have some crazy images, like psychedelic images, on the screen. No, this is like full-on branding of drug abuse, Satanism. Nebraska state senator throws a fit debating sex change bans for minors. Why do they get so mad? Why do they get so mad? I'm up against a break here. When we come back, I'm going to play this clip. Look at this deranged freak. She belongs in a mental institution, not the Nebraska state house. State Senator Michaela Kavanaugh, You know you wouldn't elect a Nazi to office, would you? So why do you keep voting for Democrats? You wouldn't elect authoritarian control freaks, Satanists, to office, death cult members to office, would you? So why do you keep voting Democrats? That D actually stands for death cult, So we'll play this absolute deranged lunatic on the other side of this break. Sold out for more than a year, we now have back in stock a limited run of our extremely popular tooth whitening, coral calcium toothpaste full of essential oils, back in stock at InfoWarsTorecom. Another great product sold out for almost a year is our activated charcoal essential oil toothpaste as well. These are both incredible for your gums, polish your teeth, amazing to counter gingivitis, and they fund the InfoWars. There are no fillers in these products. These are fluoride free, next level toothpaste- 10,000 of each tube, limited run, available exclusively at InfoWarsTorecom, And your purchase funds the operation plus. these are incredible products you need. So the coral calcium tooth whitening and the activated charcoal essential oil toothpaste are now both back in stock at InfoWarsTorecom. I thank you for your support, but regardless, these are great products you need. So take action now Go to InfoWarsTorecom for both this great toothpaste back in stock. Please give me one minute of your time, Please write this down and please go look this up. It will change your life. The UN admits, and the Lancet Medical Journal admits, that upwards of 2 billion people have mental disabilities and declining cognitive abilities. The term they use is intellectual disability because of lack of iodine. Most iodine in the environment is bound to other elements, so your body can't absorb it. Only pure iodine can really be absorbed right into the cells, And InfoWarsTorecom has the only iodine out there that actually has this type of full effect. Ladies and gentlemen, X3 has been sold out for six months. It's very hard to produce and it's finally back in stock. In fact, I was just taking some before I shot this ad. This, ladies and gentlemen, is powerful. You and your family need it. It's 25% off, back in stock. X3, triiodine exclusively at InfoWarsTorecom. Take action now, but regardless, research is info. Hydrofluorosilicic acid is the third most deadly acid on Earth and they've got our children drinking that. This is a psychotic death cult Period Case closed Out. to get you and your family, We sell the Alexa Pure Breeze made by the MyPatriotSupply Ready Hour Group. It's been around about 15 years became the biggest company. in the last six They went out, hired engineers, reverse engineered the fancy best water filter system out there that sells for twice the price and they made it as good in all the studies. It reduces things to non-detectable levels, thousands of chemicals, But you can go pay two or three times. There's four or five other filters out there that are just as good. We sell the very best, highest grade water filtration system for half the price of a leading competitor and the media says we're bad and a cult for telling you you should filter your water. You should also filter your shower water. That's another way you absorb this crap. but I'm done talking about that. The point is you can get the filters at InfoWarsTorecom. They're discounted right now, Finally back in stock. There is a war for the future happening right now. There is a war that will control my destiny, your destiny, our children's destinies, and that war is something that we can win. but it takes dedication, It takes commitment. That's why I ask listeners respectfully to go to InfoWarsTorecom and buy great products that will enrich and empower your life while keeping us on air at the very same time. InfoWarsTorecom to get a signed or unsigned copy of my book The Great Reset and War for the World. Ultimate Bone Broth Back in stock. Nitric Boost: The amazing CBD oil we have. that's the highest quality you're going to find anywhere at more than half off. It's all available at InfoWarsTorecom- Some of the very best products, and a lot of you have never shopped at InfoWarsTore. You've been watching for years, You've been listening for years, but you've never taken the step to go to InfoWarsTore. These are great products that really work and are amazing. plus, they keep us on air. So again, please take action. Go to InfoWarsTorecom today and I thank you. Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order, it's Alex Jones. And now the tip of the spear leading the fight to take back the nation, it's Owen Troyer. You're listening to The Alex Jones Show. Now I'm not saying I would support this, because I wouldn't support this, but you know that the quickest fix, the easiest way to save this country, would just be to put all radical left-wingers into a mental asylum, a mental institution. You do know that that would be the quickest fix to this right. I'm going to show you another example, But, by the way, as I'm telling you because I wouldn't support that, I don't want that, But you know that's what they're trying to do to you. You know the left-wing has decided: if we get rid of all right-wingers and Christians and conservatives, then that'll save the country. and they're actually trying to do it. And they're running entrapment schemes against you And they're censoring you and imprisoning you. Ah yes, and you know the final stage of this. So here it is. Tell me, does this woman belong in the Nebraska State Senate or does she belong in a mental institution? Here is Michaela Kavanaugh supporting trans surgery for minors. Trans people, trans people belong here. We need trans people. we love trans people. Trans people belong here. We need trans people. we love trans people. Trans people belong here. We need trans people. we love trans people. Trans people belong here. We need trans people. we love trans people. Trans people belong here. We need trans people. we love trans people. Trans people belong here. We need trans people. we love trans people. Trans people belong here. We need trans people. we love trans people. Trans people belong here. We need trans people. we love trans people. You matter, You matter And I am fighting for you And I will not stop. I will not stop today, I will not stop tomorrow. You are loved. You matter. You belong here, Mental institution or Nebraska State Senate? Where does Michaela Cavan all belong? Now? let's put aside our own politics here for a second and think about this as an issue. If you really believe that there's some sort of discrimination or hatred or bigotry against trans people, and you really believe that, okay, okay, but where does that rank on the issues that we're facing in this country? How many people are affected by transphobia? You'd be tough to find one, wouldn't you? How many people are affected by our gas prices going up, our energy prices going up, the grocery bill going up, property taxes going up? Oh well, gee, that's just about everybody, isn't it? But no, they want to get up there and rant about trans people because they think it's some sort of a virtue signal cause. Even if you do believe that's a big issue, it's like not even in the top thousand issues this country is facing. But you know, I think about this. I think about this because we actually have a growing trans and gay population here in Austin. I'm not saying that these things coincide with one another, but you know, Austin, when I moved here for multiple years straight, was the number one city to move to and live in. We're now at number 40.. I'm not saying that has something to do with the trans community moving in here or the gay community moving in here. I just think it's more about just the left-wing ideology taking over. the Democrat Party taking over is what takes it from number one to number 40 in less than five years, And you know, seeing trans people everywhere or having a new blossoming gay strip downtown is just kind of a sign of that. Now I'm not really bothered by it. I like having fun. I've got a bit of a degenerate side to me. I like to drink too much- probably Not as much anymore, but when I was younger- And so I don't care. I'll walk down the gay strip. I see people having fun, I'll laugh, It's all fun, It's all fine, I have no problem with that. Or I mean, you go out to eat or you go to restaurants here in Austin. there's actually a chance a trans person is working there and making your food, And so I see this and I think about it. I'm like I have no problem. if this person wants to dress like a man or a woman and if they do a good job making food, then fine, I'm a human, They're a human, They've got a job to do. If they make my food good, then I have no problem. If they provide good service, then it's fine. We're all in this together. But see, the issue gets conflated here. Because should I be concerned? Because you've got all these people now in this local trans community that take my clips of me confronting them at the Capitol and they take them out of context and they say I'm a transphobe and I'm a homophobe and all this other crap. that's totally not true. And then they share it out to the trans community here as an effort to put a target on my back. And so now should I be concerned if I go out and I'm having somebody that's behind the counter or in the kitchen making my meal that might be a trans person? I mean, it's already going on with leftists and liberals. But see, the issue here gets conflated. I'm not against trans people, I'm not against cross-dressers, I'm not against drag queens. I'm against propagandizing children into mutilating their bodies. That's what I'm against. I'm against propagandizing children and grooming them sexually. That's my issue. But see, they conflate it and they take it out of context and they say: you hate trans people, you're against trans. No, leave the kids alone. Again back to the story. Why have you had a 1,300% increase in children searching: am I gay, am I trans? You have confused an entire generation of children. You have confused them And they go to the Internet asking these questions because you put them in their heads. That's my problem. The US states mapped the US states where school librarians face years in prison and tens of thousands in fines for providing harmful books for children. Folks, they want to argue, this is just biology. You can go, look at any fifth grade science book, biology book, whatever, and it'll have pictures of the human anatomy. We probably all remember They have a scientific, medical picture of the human reproductive organs and, yes, maybe even mammaries, female breasts. And you might even remember when you first saw it in grade school. maybe you had a little giggle, a little chuckle. look it says testicle, look it says breast. But it's clearly a medical picture, not sexual at all, a biological, scientific, medical picture to explain to children. here's what the human body is like. Here's the reproductive organs. This is a man's body, This is a woman's body. That's learning. No, now they depict. I can't even believe it. I mean, do I really have to say it? I mean they depict all the most sordid, disgusting sex acts that you can commit, folks. Okay, You know what We all like: to have a good time with our spouses, significant others, whatever We all like to have a good time. There's stuff that they depict in this textbook that probably 90% of the people in this country would never even think about doing And they put that in children's textbooks and they say no, no, no, this is for educational purposes. No, it's not. You're putting pornographic, sexually explicit material in front of these children. You're putting ideas into their heads that even as adults, they wouldn't be interested in. Book removals may have violated students' civil rights. education department says So. okay, Now see, you think about the culture jamming aspect of this. I'm not suggesting anybody does this for obvious reasons, But you know this would be the culture jamming phenomenon. Oh, I'm going to go into the classroom and I'm going to put down a Playboy magazine. I'm going to go into the classroom and I'm going to put down a Maxim pornographic adult material magazine And don't tell me that's porn. Don't tell me that's illicit material for adults, only because that violates the students' civil rights. That's madness, That's insanity, That's criminal. But oh, if you put the LGBTQ pride flag and you say it's LGBTQ, educational, then sure, Sexually abuse the kids, Sexually groom the kids, Show them pornographic material. Why do you have a 1300% increase in children searching? Am I gay? Am I trans? We all know why. We all know why They're trying to normalize sexually grooming and abusing children folks. That's what they're doing. Just weeks ago, I warned the world that the globalists were going to move against Tucker Carlson and take him off the air. People said no way. he's the most powerful thing that ever happened. They've got quadrillions of stolen money. They only had Tucker Carlson on the air because they believed they could control him, But as soon as they figured out they couldn't, he was taken off the air. It's the same thing with Infowars, But Infowars is not owned by Fox or controlled by George Soros, or owned by Spotify. like Joe Rogan, We are only beholden to our viewers and our listeners, And when you support us, we're unstoppable. I'm not underwritten by Rupert Murdoch or by George Soros. I'm underwritten by you, which is we, the people. So I want to thank you for your support and encourage viewers and listeners to understand. please don't take Infowars for granted. We're barely hanging on. We need your word of mouth, your prayer, your financial support, while getting great products at the same time at Infowarsstorecom. So don't procrastinate. Go to Infowarsstorecom, get amazing products that keep us on the air, and never submit to these tyrants Infowars. Tomorrow's News, Today. This is their big move. So yeah, you say, why doesn't Biden address the disasters in the United States? He doesn't care, That's not his job. He's not the President of the United States, He's a puppet operating for the globalists. Appetites of the autocrat cannot be appeased. They must be opposed. Autocrats only understand one word: No, No, No, Exactly. And that's why we say no to your vaccines. We say no to you shutting down our businesses. We say no to you taking our firearms. We say no to you censoring our free speech. We say no to you selling us out to the World Health Organization. We say no to you getting us into World War III. You're right. We stand against autocrats like you, Joe Biden, And we say no. And we say no to your war. Thousands of former Nazis went to work for the United States government. A flying disc has been found and is now in the possession of the Army. Taylor J Bulletin from CBS News: President Kennedy has been shot. This is a different kind of war. The USS Liberty had just been attacked by Israeli jets and torpedo boats. A CIA could manipulate the news in the United States. They took the babies out of incubators and left the children to die on the cold floor. It was almost as if it were a plan in full. It just can't happen. We need to go into the Capitol. Stop, Stop, Stop. You will always have conspiracy theories. They are nothing but distractions. You censored Harvard-educated doctors. You silenced those voices. What we want to do in Davos is push the reset button. Soon as we start exposing the Great Reset, the sooner these globalists start going to prison. Ladies and gentlemen, this book, The Great Reset and War for the World, is a historic book that documents the globalists, in their own words, plan for our future. That is the hellish future. Now you'll always, while they still allow books- I guess they're starting to ban them- be able to get an unsigned copy of The Great Reset and War for the World at bookstores, Amazon or Infowarscom, But you will never be able to get another signed copy of the book after the signed copies we got run out And there's about a thousand left of them right now. So get your copy of The Great Reset and War for the World, a signed copy at Infowarscom- And there is a markup there- because this is a fundraiser to keep us on the air. So you won't just have this historic memento and this powerful book, you'll also know that you help keep Infowars on the air. I want to thank those of you that have gotten signed copies of the book or unsigned copies, But I want to encourage all of you who haven't yet to go to Infowarscom and get a signed copy and buy a couple of unsigned copies and donate them to the library or give them to the local school. This is an Infowar. I'm counting on you and thank you for your support, Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones, And welcome to the first ever Super Smash Bros Ultimate Gameplay. This is Super Smash Bros Ultimate Gameplay. This is Super Smash Bros Ultimate Gameplay. This is Super Smash Bros Ultimate Gameplay. Super Smash Bros Ultimate Gameplay. This is Super Smash Bros Ultimate Gameplay. This is Super Smash Bros Ultimate Gameplay. This is Super Smash Bros Ultimate Gameplay. Super Smash Bros Ultimate Gameplay. Super Smash Bros Ultimate Gameplay. Super Smash Bros Ultimate. Super Smash Bros Ultimate. Super Smash Bros Ultimate. Super Smash Bros Ultimate. Super Smash Bros Ultimate. Super Smash Bros Ultimate. Super Smash Bros- Multi-: ediyor: Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros, Ultimate. Well, we had this story at the migrant shelter in McAllen, Texas, that big, monstrous facility they have, And we had inside sources talking about how young kids ages like 5,, 6, 7, were performing sex acts on each other, And so the obvious question would be: well, how is this happening? How did they learn this? Why are they doing this? Because it got done to them on their way into the country. They got abused, They got sexually exploited and abused on the way to the country, And now they're just repeating what happened to them to the other kids in the camp, and that's just what they're doing. Why is there an increase- 1300% in am I gay, am I trans? Because they're being told you're gay, you're trans, you're all this other stuff Confusing the children, Abusing the children. It's like if your kid came home from school like your first grader. your second grader comes home from school and they start making a drawing about gay sex or something about that, and you say: well, gee, what the heck? where did you learn this? You're just a kid, You're not thinking about this. Where did you learn this? Obviously, you didn't come up with this thought on your own. Oh yeah, oh yeah, mommy, daddy, this is what they teach me in the classroom. now, Say what? Say what Totally unnatural, Totally inorganic, Clearly grooming sexually. is what's going on here Out youth? and they have this list of pronouns here on their website: Preteen, drop-in, take form and agreement, Preferred name Pronouns. None of these even exist. The only pronouns that exist, as far as I can tell in the English lexicon, are he, him, his, she, her, theirs, for individuals, and they, them, theirs, for plurals. And now they have any pronoun. oh yeah, just call me anything, I don't know. he, him, his, a, him, theirs, it, it, its, oh, you're an, it. See, you know, whether you like Putin or not, you have to understand how the American left has set him up to now be a figurehead and a world leader. You're clearly engaged in sex abuse of kids, And so all Putin has to do is say: well, you know, gee, if we end up in a war with the West if we end up in a war against America. boy, that's going to be easy to justify for my people because you're engaged in ritualistic child abuse. It's kind of like: well, gee, if we have to go to war with the Nazis, they're rounding up Jews and putting them into concentration camps. so it's kind of justified if we have to take up that fight. And, by the way, that's what the Russians did And over a million of them died And the Nazis were defeated. And the Nazis were defeated, And it was the Russians in Berlin and it was the Russians in Stalingrad that lost millions of people and ultimately defeated the Nazis. So I don't want war with Russia, I don't want war with anybody, And I certainly don't want American children being sexually abused and groomed so that when they're five years old they're being taught about all kinds of assorted sexual activity that most American adults are not even interested in. And this is what they're doing to your children in the schools. This is what they're trying to indoctrinate your children. So if you see your child, if you pull up on your Internet search, let's say you've got an Internet-savvy child. maybe they're seven, eight years old and they pull up an Internet search that says: am I gay? Am I trans? You see that? Well, you know exactly where that came from, don't you? Or what are my pronouns? You know exactly where that came from, don't you? That wasn't an organic thought. They didn't come up with those ideas themselves. That's not childhood progression, That's indoctrination, That's propaganda, That's grooming, That's abusing. There's no other way to put this Five through 11 LGBTQ plus support groups. What in the hell does that even mean? You know it might not be such an issue if they at least waited until high school. maybe, Maybe, I mean I could be open-minded if you said: you know there's some bullying that goes down and a lot of kids realize in high school that maybe they're not heterosexual and maybe we should have some support groups for this. I mean that would be one thing. Folks, they're marketing this to children age five. How many, what percentage? what percentage of American children can even read at age five? Ride a bike, Write, And before they can do these basic human skills, you have the left injecting sexual ideology and propaganda and grooming into their minds before many of them can either read or write or ride a bike, And then 1,300% increase in searches. am I gay? am I trans? That's the American left sexually abusing an entire generation of American children. This will be stopped. This will not continue. Turbo Force is back, sold out for eight months, and it's Turbo Force Plus. We made it even stronger- The strongest long-term energy you're going to find anywhere. Turbo Force is back in stock at Infowarsstorecom or 888-253-3139.. It's not just wide-spectrum natural herbs that time-release over 10 hours- It should be called 10-hour energy. It has a bunch of vitamins and minerals and a bunch of other key things and amino acids that turbocharge everything and are good for your heart, your brain, your liver. you name it. It is the super fuel. Rain Force Plus is great. Rain Force Ultra is great. They're two different nootropics. They go good with this. But this is the King Kong, This is the boss. Turbo Force back in stock, discounted Infowarsstorecom. More power, more strength, more energy. They decided to not perp walking, not put him in handcuffs, not do a mugshot, because they knew that that would help Trump, Didn't? they know this would backfire. We were waiting for the mugshot. We learned today they wouldn't have it, so we've made our own And it says Political Prisoner With an image of President Trump. The shirt is being printed now in Texas. It'll be shipping out to you in one week. Political Prisoner With Trump on the front. They're in a mugshot jail background. It's a fundraiser shirt. It says Infowarscom on the back of the shirt. We also have Alex Jones for President. No, I'm not running for President. It's a really nice navy blue high quality shirt. Red, white and blue, Alex Jones for President 2024.. It's a fun conversational piece And a limited edition shirt. Great way to fund the operation. So get your Alex Jones for President and Trump mugshot shirts at Infowarsstorecom or by calling toll free 888-253-3139.. In the early 1900s, certain companies were off-gassing highly toxic fluoride gases into the atmosphere. The surrounding communities began to get sick. Laws were enacted to compel these corporations to install scrubbers to convert these gases into fluorosilicic acid, Still highly toxic but containable. Now these companies had a stockpile of this poison And there was no affordable way to dispose of it. Lucky for them, one of their major stockholders was also the Secretary of the Treasury, who was responsible for the public health service at the time, And by 1950, the US government began buying this toxic, untreated industrial waste product and dumping it into our drinking water. Reputable studies show that it's causing various cancers and other disease. With the Alexa Pure Pro, you can have clean drinking water And a remedy to this madness, Available now at Infowarsstorecom. Ladies and gentlemen, this book, The Great Reset and War for the World, is a historic book that documents the globalists, in their own words, plan for our future. That is the hellish future. Now you'll always- while they still allow books- I guess they're starting to ban them- be able to get an unsigned copy of The Great Reset and War for the World at bookstores, Amazon or Infowarsstorecom, But you will never be able to get another signed copy of the book after the signed copies we got run out And there's about a thousand left of them right now. So get your copy of The Great Reset and War for the World, a signed copy, at Infowarsstorecom- And there is a markup there, because this is a fundraiser to keep us on the air. So you won't just have this historic memento and this powerful book, you'll also know that you help keep Infowars on the air. I want to thank those of you that have gotten signed copies of the book or unsigned copies, But I want to encourage all of you who haven't yet to go to Infowarsstorecom and get a signed copy and buy a couple of unsigned copies and donate them to the library or give them to the local school. This is an Infowar. I'm counting on you and thank you for your support. Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones. So this story was from M N Gordon at economicprismcom. How corruption makes you poor. If so, you've likely noticed that things don't quite add up between what you're regularly told about how the economy and financial markets work and what you actually experience. Now, obviously we can understand, generally speaking, how the corruption in the US government has certainly lowered the standard of living for the average American citizen. I mean, honestly, American citizens should be living like kings and queens, But our money gets stolen by our government, redistributed by our government, and so our jobs get shipped out of country and then they hire cheap labor from other countries that they're bringing in right now. So how corruption makes you poor. But the biggest corruption that won't just make you poor but will completely destroy your future is the climate change lie. Exxon crushes progressive dreams that net zero has any chance by 2050. it would mean collapse in global standard of living. See, I just wish they would be honest about what stopping man-made climate change actually means. We'll tell you what it means. You can no longer drive a vehicle, You can no longer own a house, You can no longer have a living structure, a home, however you see fit, 20,000 square feet or 2,000 square feet, You don't get it. You don't get AC, You don't get heating, You don't get red meat, You don't get anything. You become a global surf slave class citizen with access to no energy and no private property. That's what stopping man-made climate change is really about. Now, if you had that honest discussion about these climate change activists, if you had that honest discussion with them, would they still want to do net zero and just say, okay, you're going to live in a cave or you're going to live in a pod and you're going to eat bugs and you're going to own nothing until you die. And, by the way, you're going to be sterilized too, And you won't even be allowed to have children without proper government permission, if you can even get it. It's the end of man, It's the end of human civilization, But that's just if they want to be honest about what it really means. They aren't even honest about what happens with their new energy sources. So here's a video out of Scotland. Scotland's wind turbines are secretly using diesel generators and they have to use these things for the wind turbines to work. Here's the video- To ensure dozens of giant turbines on wind farms could function. according to the Sunday Mail, they were tipped off by a whistleblower who cited a number of environmental, health and safety concerns, one of which was half a dozen diesel generators running for up to six hours a day to de-ice the wind turbines. Scottish Power said they were forced to hook up 71 windmills to the fossil fuel supply after a fault on their grid caused the system to fail to keep the turbines warm and working during the cold month of December. Other concerns from the whistleblower included thousands of liters of leaked oil from hydraulic units and technical faults that see turbines taking energy from the grid rather than producing energy. And this is the case with pretty much every alternative energy source. is it actually ends up using more energy? The electric cars use more energy than combustion engine vehicles And their shelf lives, if you account for the battery, are shorter than combustion engine vehicles. I mean hell. you take good care of a car. you take good care of the engine. a lot of these cars they make nowadays you can get 200,000, 300,000 miles out of them easily. With an electric vehicle you got to replace that electric battery. what is it like? every 20,000 miles or so? Whoa, that's an expensive purchase. The lithium mines, like the ones that have destroyed the rainforest in the Philippines- oh, they don't tell you about that. Hey, we want to protect the rainforest, We need to stop man-made climate change and protect the rainforest, so we need to drive electric vehicles. Where do you get the batteries? Did you know that the batteries for your electric cars destroyed the rainforest in the Philippines? Were you aware of that? So you've got to do the strip mining, You've got to get the materials, you've got to transfer the materials, you've got to build the car batteries. all of that consumes more energy than driving a combustion vehicle. And you have to repeat that process how many times for the equivalent of driving a combustion engine vehicle for 300,000 miles? 10 times, 20 times. Folks, they don't have the alternative energy. The alternative energy we should be utilizing is nuclear. Yeah, we understand the threats that come with that, but, gee, we are smart people, We are extremely capable human beings with superior intelligence. I think we can handle ourselves using nuclear energy. But no, no, no, no, no, no. You don't get new energy sources, you just lose the energy sources you have And they don't have an alternative energy source. And even the alternative energy sources they have are not reliable and they aren't energy efficient. And so they just lie to you about everything, How corruption makes you poor. This is the highest level of corruption: the corporate world government wanting to shut off your access to energy. And you need to understand the people, the individuals that think they own this planet and think that the human race is their slave class. they're sick of you. They're sick of you having access to food and energy. They're sick of the standard of living that the United States of America, a free republic of people executing self-governance. They are sick of the standard that is set for the world. So it has to be destroyed, And all the lessons we learned from the creation and success that the United States have had must be eradicated. That's why Barack Obama and John Kerry go to Africa and they say: no industrialization for you, No air conditioning for you, No combustion engines for you, Because it's all about keeping the people down. It's all about keeping the people in a serf class, keeping the people in a slave class. Same reason why they don't want you to have a gun. Exact same reason. You're not allowed to be prosperous. You're not allowed to be successful. This is their planet. John Kerry even says: I get to fly around on jets because I'm more important than you. Yes, Spoken like a true liberal. How corruption makes you poor. Just wait till you see what happens if and when they kick in their climate change net zero green new deal. Oh, you think your energy bill is high now? You think your gas bill is high now. Soon it'll be a year's salary just to heat your house for a day. But hey, it's saving the planet. Die to save the planet. Please give me one minute of your time, Please write this down and please go look this up. It will change your life. The UN admits, and the Lansing Medical Journal admits, that upwards of two billion people have mental disabilities and declining cognitive abilities. The term they use is intellectual disability because of lack of iodine. Most iodine in the environment is bound to other elements, so your body can't absorb it. Only pure iodine can really be absorbed right into the cells, And Infowarsstorecom has the only iodine out there that actually has this type of full effect. Ladies and gentlemen, X3 has been sold out for six months. It's very hard to produce And it's finally back in stock. In fact, I was just taking some before I shot this ad. This, ladies and gentlemen, is powerful. You and your family need it. It's 25% off back in stock. X3, triiodine- exclusively at Infowarsstorecom. Take action now. But regardless. research is info. Hydrofluorosilicic acid is the third most deadly acid on Earth And they've got our children drinking that. This is a psychotic death cult period case closed out to get you and your family. We sell the Alexa Pure Breeze made by the MyPatriotSupply Ready Hour Group. It's been around about 15 years, became the biggest company in the last six. They went out, hired engineers, reverse engineered the fancy best water filter system out there that sells for twice the price, and they made it as good in all the studies. It reduces things to non-detectable levels- thousands of chemicals, But you can go pay two or three times. There's four or five other filters out there that are just as good. We sell the very best, highest grade water filtration system for half the price of leading competitor And the media says we're bad and a cult for telling you you should filter your water. You should also filter your shower water. That's another way you absorb this crap. But I'm done talking about that. The point is you get the filters at Infowarsstorecom- They're discounted right now- finally back in stock. This is Adam King, host of The Adam King Show, joined by the one and only Greg Reis of The Reis Report. We wanted to hop on and send everybody to Infowarsstorecom. Click this QR code right above Greg Reis. Buy yourself a Faraday cage, super male vitality or what Greg has. Greg, what do you got there? If you really want to treat yourself to something nice, get yourself an Alexa Pure water filter and get clean, healthy water whenever you want it, wherever you want it, Even if the water pressure goes out. the gravity-fed water filter has got you covered Absolutely, And we couldn't do any of this without listener support. I was telling Greg earlier: we're like the real NPR, the real NPR of the bass, right. So click that QR code right there on your screen right now. Take out your phone, Click that QR code. It'll take you directly to Infowarsstorecom. Buy something, Support The Infowar. Keep Alex Jones, Orrin Schwoyer, Harrison Smith, Greg Reis, Adam King and the rest of us on air. Do it today, Do it now. Support The Infowar. The most banned man in America, Alex Jones. I want you all to know something: Alex Jones was right. Alex is right about far more than he's wrong. Alex has been right on for over a decade. I don't care how you slice it, dice it, flip it up or rub it down. Alex Jones was right. Think about how frustrated we are if you've been awake for a year or two. Imagine being like an Alex Jones, or those guys who've been awake for like decades. Alex Jones called this years ago, Years ago. Alex Jones never bought the Russia hoax, Not for a second. You are one of the great thinkers of this. You are a martyr to the First Amendment. The government fears Alex Jones. That's why the globalists hate me is because I'm exposing their corporate worldwide tyranny, Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones Live from the Infowarscom studios. you're listening to The Alex Jones Show and now your host, Owen Troyer. All right, some quick programming notes here. Paul Joseph Watson is going to be hosting the fourth hour of today's transmission. I'm going to be back hosting the war room. Don't worry, I've got an entire slate of news ready for the war room today as well. You think how could you do six hours of news? Well, there's definitely six hours of news out there and you'll be seeing just that, Of course, everything we do here brought to you by you shopping at InfowarsStorecom. But I'm debating doing a segment or two of calls here just to kind of give me a little buffer on the news. So let's put out the phone number. Anything we've covered on today's Alex Jones Show is fair game: 877-789-2539,. 877-789-2539.. Do you agree with Kevin McCarthy that says the FBI is going to finally expose the Biden crime family? Yay or nay? What do you think about the radical left throwing temper tantrums because they can't genitally mutilate children and they have groups promoting sexual depravity to kids as young as five? We've got that. What do you think about RFK Jr's statements with Dave Smith about Donald Trump and the Durham report? We'll probably be able to squeeze a call in or two even in this segment, but we will take at least a segment of calls just as a little buffer here today. I want to hear from the audience. In the meantime, Jeffrey Epstein appeared to threaten Bill Gates over his affair with a Russian bridge player. I thought it was just a business relationship. The billionaire pedophile and billionaire Microsoft co-founder had a more complicated relationship than was previously known reporting the Wall Street Journal, And Epstein was threatening to expose Bill Gates' affair if he didn't participate in his charitable fund. The Wall Street Journal reported yesterday that Epstein wanted Gates to invest in a multi-billion dollar charitable fund with JPMorgan back in 2013,, and Bill Gates refused. Oh, there it is: JPMorgan again, Gates refused. and so that's when Epstein said: oh, you refused. Well, you remember that Russian bridge player, Mila Antonova, that you had your affair with? Yeah, we wouldn't want that coming out, would we? I think you should give me some of that money. Bingo, bongo, boingo. And so is that another agent of Epstein's? How many of these sex agents did he have out there? That's what they do, folks. That's how they blackmail everybody into submission. Jeffrey Epstein threatened to expose Bill Gates' 2010 affair with a Russian bridge player after he refused to participate in a multi-billion dollar charitable fund with JPMorgan. That's how it works. Give the Democrats money, Give our political candidate money. Give our non-charitable- or, excuse me- charitable fund money. Oh, you're not going to. Oh, yeah, remember that Russian you had an affair with. Yeah, she's one of my agents. You want that coming out? Oh, you remember that person that you ended up in that room with on my island? Yeah, she was actually only 15.. You don't want that coming out now, do you? Oh, remember all that money I laundered for you? Yeah, I wouldn't want to release that to the IRS now. So go ahead and make this charitable contribution to my political candidate. Go ahead and make this charitable contribution to my charitable group, And if you don't, well, it's going to be bad news for you. Yes, indeed, That's how Epstein's blackmail operation worked, and Bill Gates was all in on it. He was all blackmailed, And who knows how bad it really is, because the US government and the American media are covering the whole story up. So you don't get to know who Jeffrey Epstein's clients were. You don't get to know all the individuals that Epstein was blackmailing, though I get the feeling that the Wall Street Journal is going to continue to leak this stuff out. Everybody over there at the Wall Street Journal has a lot of intel and they are just slowly dripping it out. Boy, it'd be nice if there was some interest from our justice system in finding out what was going on with the largest ever blackmail ring- human trafficking, sex trafficking ring, I mean- in American history, in world history. I mean, you know, but they're not interested. They're more interested in covering it up because they were involved. All right, The callers are already on the board here. We've got them filled up. Let's start with Thomas in Seattle on the vaccines. Thomas, you're on the air, Go ahead. Oh, and pleasure man. Hey, real quick. I just wanted people to know about the vaccine mandates. The post office was never on the hook. This is what I heard from people in the post office. They were never on the hook. If you remember, there was a big stink, very short stink, about why we were off the hook as far as the post office was concerned And I just started wondering why that would be. You know the military, you know you had career guys, Navy SEALs- right, They were all let go. They were all let go. So somehow a Navy SEAL and a Marine and a guy flying in a cockpit alone- that guy is a threat- But somehow a mailman who goes into every nursing home and school. they were never mandated for that vaccine. So I always ask people what was the reason for this And why did people just forget about it? There was a sort of an issue with it. And then they came back and said oh, no, no, no. The government said no, no, they're going to get vaccinated. And I've asked other mail carriers and stuff And they would say no, we were never on the hook for it. So I always go back to the elections, because Nancy Pelosi called a special session in August of 2020.. And they wanted to probably get on board with how they were going to collect the ballots during the COVID election, basically in 2020.. And there was a very I think they were concerned that there might be a hiccup in the mail ballots- a mail-in ballot- And I think that's why they did it. And I think, in my opinion, the reason that the post office was never on the hook for it was because it was a favor back to the administration for helping him basically be installed. Well, you know, this is an older story. I remember the controversy at the time in 2020.. And I remember there were conflicting narratives out there, Some people saying no, there was a vaccine mandate, and others saying no, there wasn't. And then there were different reasons, given different branches of the government different mandates on these different positions. So I don't remember that full story, But certainly an interesting question if that's the case. Thomas, thanks for the call. Let's go to Justin in Texas. Justin, you're on the air. Go ahead, Hey man. It's a pleasure to finally be able to talk to you guys. I wanted to go over censorship and the profiling Alex was talking about the other day that they initiated in 2020.. I mean, for instance, I've been censored left and right on this stuff. especially, I've been censored from contact and able to actually watch banned video along with being able to call on here to be able to talk to you guys. So I mean that the whole profiling behind this stuff for white supremacy and patriots and people that are blue collar, that care about the others in their communities- What do you think the solution is? to kind of get back to normal. get back to be able to have your freedom, other than having to riot or not riot, but protest and kind of combat. Sure, Well, again, the simple answer to all of this is just get rid of liberals and Democrats. Now, obviously, I'm not saying that that's a real solution. I'm just saying that'd be the simple solution. They're the ones censoring everybody. Well, look, people are creating alternative platforms. We had to build our own platform. It's not perfect, but it's there. We're here. You know, rumble is up and coming. There's there's apps competing with Twitter, when that was getting censored, but now must bought Twitter. So there's kind of free speech there. So we're kind of seeing this all play out. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth, the solution, is laying right there in front of you, hidden in plain view. Please listen to me in the next 60 seconds. If you go to Wikipedia, it has links to the UN zone website where they admit the number one cause of cognitive disability in the world is iodine deficiency. The number one preventable cause of intellectual disability is lack of real, pure iodine in the body. as they bomb us with the bad halogens, bromine, bromide, chlorine and so much more, Upwards of two billion people in a Lancet Medical Journal study in 2007, worldwide have cognitive disabilities because they don't have high quality iodine. Most iodine is bound to other elements. You don't absorb it. We have X3, all three types of good iodine together. that supercharges your body. X3 is now back in stock at InfoWarsTorecom for being sold out for over six months for 25 percent off. X3 back in stock. Take action now, InfoWarsTorecom. Every time I talk to you, you're either like on the border exposing the cartels and like coming under fire, or you're on the streets of some American city hanging out with drug addicts and criminals. And now you've gone to ground zero of a massive chemical spill. Are you addicted to the danger. Savannah, Have you ever considered that for a second? No, I'm addicted to helping my fellow Americans, I'm addicted to spreading the truth And, again, you know, I have InfoWars to thank for that. Looking back on the day, I was able to ask President Donald Trump two questions. I was so grateful because, you know, I truly was classically trained under Alex Jones and under the InfoWars team And I really do credit that as to why I'm able to, you know, get these types of clips, because Alex's whole mentality was, you know, go where the story is, go where the mainstream media refuses to. So it's not that I'm addicted to the insanity, I'm just addicted to telling the truth and helping the American people And I really do credit Alex for, you know, really instilling that within me early on in my career. In the early 1900s, certain companies were off gassing highly toxic fluoride gases into the atmosphere. The surrounding communities began to get sick. Laws were enacted to compel these corporations to install scrubbers to convert these gases into fluorosilicic acid, still highly toxic but containable. Now. these companies had a stockpile of this poison and there was no affordable way to dispose of it. Lucky for them, one of their major stockholders was also the Secretary of the Treasury, who was responsible for the Public Health Service at the time, And by 1950, the US government began buying this toxic, untreated industrial waste product and dumping it into our drinking water. Reputable studies show that it's causing various cancers and other disease. With the Alexa Pure Pro, you can have clean drinking water and a remedy to this madness, Available now at InfoWarsStorecom. Just weeks ago, I warned the world that the globalists were going to move against Tucker Carlson and take him off the air. People said no way. he's the most powerful thing that ever happened. They've got quadrillions of stolen money. They only had Tucker Carlson on the air because they believed they could control him, But as soon as they figured out they couldn't, he was taken off the air. It's the same thing with InfoWars, But InfoWars is not owned by Fox or controlled by George Soros or owned by Spotify, like Joe Rogan. We are only beholden to our viewers and our listeners, And when you support us, we're unstoppable. I'm not underwritten by Rupert Murdoch or by George Soros. I'm underwritten by you, which is we, the people. So I want to thank you for your support and encourage viewers and listeners to understand. please don't take InfoWars for granted. We're barely hanging on. We need your word of mouth, your prayer, your financial support, while getting great products at the same time at InfoWarsTorecom. So don't procrastinate. Go to InfoWarsTorecom, get amazing products that keep us on the air and never submit to these tyrants Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones. I'm taking another segment of calls before Paul Joseph Watson takes over. then I'll be back hosting the War Room right here with more breaking news, But right now we go back to the phone lines and let's go to Todd in North Carolina. Todd, you're on the air, Go ahead. Hi Owen, I want to ask you if you know about the event that RFK Jr, Vivek Rivaswamy, Cynthia Loomis and Tulsi Gabbard all spoke at this weekend. I don't believe so. no, It was the Bitcoin Conference 2023 in Miami. OK, yeah, I saw that Bitcoin conference. I didn't know they spoke at it. Yeah, it's pretty interesting. RFK Jr brought up what made him a Bitcoiner, and that was the trucker convoy in Canada and how their funds were cut off, And he proposed that if their money had been in Bitcoin, then Canada Trudeau couldn't have touched them. So it's this idea, that Bitcoin, which I didn't quite get until I started listening to a podcast called Simply Bitcoin, but their motto for Bitcoin is: Bitcoin is a separation of state and money, And I'd love to hear you guys interview the host, Nico and Apti. They're both from the Southern Hemisphere- Nico, he's from Venezuela and Apti he's from Mexico- And they really see Bitcoin as an opportunity to uplift the global south Africa, all the unbanked nations of the world, countries like Lebanon, the United States, Yes, sir. So let me just stop you right there. Here's the challenge. Here's the challenge about Bitcoin or any other cryptocurrency is that You have to find a way So that the transaction economy can run off of it. so, in other words, in order for the Bitcoin dream to really work- this is my opinion. I'm not the biggest crypto guy, This is just how I view it. So crypto people listening to this may be maybe, like you know, getting nauseous over my coverage here, But The whole goal needs to be: can I go out to lunch and purchase my meal in Bitcoin? Can I pay my electric bill in Bitcoin? Can I make real world transactions in Bitcoin? Because to me, the whole cryptocurrency thing is basically like a glorified crypto stock market at this point and not a true transactional currency. Now in El Salvador, they're trying to embrace that And maybe that could come in the future. That's the hurdle we have to leap Now. there's a story in the news today: Lawmakers clash over regulation of stable coins. In other words, the government knows what cryptocurrency represents as a threat to their power And, of course, the central bankers understand that if there's an alternative currency that they can't control, then it's game over. The entire global Enslavement central banking system is dead. so they are. they are truly scrambling to find a way to put this to rest. So imagine it like this: The government, the greedy criminal government, always has to get your hands, get their hands on every transaction. they got to get their cut. So it could be anything. you, we could decide as a people that monopoly money is now going to be our real currency And we could just decide: we're not using any fiat central bank currencies anymore, we're just going to use monopoly money, or we're just going to use bottle caps, or we're just going to use trading cards. And then, if all the people in the world decided, OK, from now on we're doing transactions in monopoly money, in bottle caps, in whatever, Well, you see, the government can't stand that. they've got to get their cut and they've got to have control over the cash flow and the banking system because ultimately, at the end of the day, that's their true source of power: Food supply, money supply. So if they lose control over the money supply, it's game over for them. So they're trying to find all kinds of ways, without being egregiously aggressive and over the top with this, so that the people don't understand their true control here and their true lust for power here. But you watch, As soon as there starts to be a truly viable transactional community with cryptocurrency or Bitcoin or anything else, the US government will step in to stop that in any way they possibly can. And they're already trying it with this unrealized gains tax. And they want to claim that, oh, if you have Bitcoin and it's worth X, Y or Z, then you're paying taxes. Total criminal activity, Total authoritarian centralization of power activity, And so that's why they are panicked. That's why they are panicked. So again, I'm not a I'm not a big crypto guy. I'm not a big Bitcoin guy. I understand the goal, I think. But How do you get people universally to flip that switch and say: we're taking Bitcoin now and everything changes? the whole game changes, You know? I mean, how are they going to tax it? How are they going to tax those transactions? How are they going to tax you getting paid in Bitcoin? They can't, They can't. That frees humanity from the central banks. So that's why they're totally panicked over that in DC. That's why the central bankers are panicked over that. So I wouldn't be surprised if it really starts to get close to a situation where you might actually have a transactional interest in the US, where you might actually have a transactional economy with, with Bitcoin or any other cryptocurrency. they'll just make it illegal. They'll just outright make it illegal and they'll claim it's a money laundering scheme or a Ponzi scheme or something like that, and they'll just try to shut it down. And you know, if you're an accelerationist, you might be. you might be OK with that. Just you know, show us who you really are. Show us how the central banks really have to control us. Show us how we don't get a choice over what we can use for currency. If I decide I want to use seashells for currency, I should be allowed to do that. If a restaurant decides they're going to take trading cards for currency, then they should be allowed to do that. But see, then the US government loses that ability to take their cut of every transaction and tax you on every transaction. And then they lose their power. They can't launch every war they want, They can't launch all the initiatives they want, And then ultimately it's their death. So they will fight like hell to make sure that cryptocurrencies or any other alternative currency that the central banks don't control will be snuffed out. And, depending on how real this gets, I mean they're either going to try to just outlaw it or, you know, maybe major crypto people just start winding up at the bottom of rivers. So let's hope it doesn't go there. but you know the central banks will do anything to protect their power. All right, let's go to Mike in New York. Mike in New York, you're on the air. Go ahead. Hello Hi, Oh, sorry, Yeah, I was Mike in Chicago, But yeah, I wanted to do Chicago. I'm sorry about that. We got New York here, but I'm trying to get out. I'm getting to Idaho as soon as I can. No, I wanted to defend Dave Smith. You were very bipartisan in your analysis, but I did want to throw a little context, but that's OK, Yes, sir. So yeah, he was trashing Trump on the war thing, because that's a big reason that he supported Trump in the beginning 2016, because he did run on ending the wars And, yes, the defense to that is he got duped by his generals, although he did run again on draining the swamp, but yet surrounded himself with the swamp. So that was the context of that interview. But I did want to do one plug for Dave Smith. He did take over the Libertarian Party And if he does run for president in 2024, he will be the Trump of this election, like what Trump was in 2016.. And I think he has a good video on YouTube that I think the InfoWars crew would like, just responding to Alex Jones when he was on Crowder, I think, like a year ago or something. Well, let me be clear. I wasn't being critical of Dave Smith And, as you know, I was trying to make an example of this assumed approach to politics and policy that somehow everything the nucleus is left wing ideology and anything against the left wing is now considered an outlier or not popular or controversial. That was my point. I actually think Dave Smith did a great interview. It's kind of like the same thing with the Elon Musk interview with the CNBC guy. He did a great interview. but it's that same approach where it's like, oh my gosh, anything that's not centered or the center of it is not from the left wing ideology, then somehow it's controversial. I'm looking forward to Dave Smith- if he decides to run- and what he has to say, And I think it was a great interview. Yeah, All right. Well, hey, I'm excited You guys are killing it. Owen, I love that you got that lady out of prison in Texas during the covid lockdowns. You really inspired me. So just wanted to say, yeah, prove that we can do it. You just got to get your ass up and stop being lazy. Thank you, Mike. Thank you, Mike. You know, Boy, he brings this up. you know, folks, I'll just put it like this: Infowars never gets the credit we deserve, And even when we're directly responsible for things like that, the individuals who, whose lives, potentially, we save, Still snub us and turn their back on us. but that's OK, that's OK. we love you, we love the country we want to be free. Sold out for more than a year, we now have back in stock a limited run of our extremely popular tooth whitening coral calcium toothpaste full of essential oils- back in stock at Infowarsstorecom. Another great product sold out for almost a year is our activated charcoal essential oil toothpaste as well. These are both incredible for your gums, polish your teeth, amazing to counter gingivitis and they fund the Infowars. There are no fillers in these products. These are fluoride free, next level toothpaste- 10,000 of each tube, limited run, available exclusively at Infowarsstorecom, And your purchase funds the operation Plus. these are incredible products you need. So the coral calcium tooth whitening and the activated charcoal essential oil toothpaste are now both back in stock at Infowarsstorecom. I thank you for your support, But regardless, these are great products you need. So take action now. Go to Infowarsstorecom for both this great toothpaste back in stock. Turbo Force is back. sold out for eight months and it's Turbo Force Plus. We made it even stronger, The strongest long-term energy you're going to find anywhere. Turbo Force is back in stock at Infowarsstorecom or 888-253-3139.. It's not just wide spectrum natural herbs. that time release over 10 hours should be called 10 hour energy. It has a bunch of vitamins and minerals and a bunch of other key things and amino acids that turbocharge everything and are good for your heart, your brain, your liver. you name it. It is the super fuel. Rain Force Plus is great. Rain Force Ultra is great. They're two different nootropics. They go good with this, But this is the King Kong. This is the boss. Turbo Force back in stock. discounted Infowarsstorecom. more power, more strength, more energy, Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. It's Alex Jones Transmitting worldwide from the SummitNews studios in the United Kingdom. you are listening to Paul Joseph Watson. We are live and we are into the fourth hour of the show. and well, recent news events continue to suggest that diversity pretty much equals no white people. Big controversy in London, which I'm going to explain a little later in the show, about a play in the diverse eastern area of London where white people have been told not to attend. But first in the United States, this is out of Information Liberation. Uber's Asian diversity chief, put on leave after hosting- Don't Call Me Karen- event addressing anti-white racism. Yes, the Uber diversity hire actually considered the diversity concerns of white people and she is basically out after the social media mobs, after the employees there at Uber demanded that she be punished for daring to countenance, daring to even consider the fact that some white people, especially white women working for Uber, feel that they're being discriminated against in another example of institutionalized racism, which seems to only go one way these days, doesn't it? And increasingly it doesn't seem to be going against black people, Hispanics or anyone else but white people. This is Uber diversity chief Bo Young Lee- and she wasn't an Uber enough. diversity chief, as it turned out, has been suspended from her job hosting a Don't Call Me Karen event for the company's white female employees to discuss the American white woman's experience in dealing with the anti-white Karen slur. And you've seen it over and over again- whether you think that it's being oversensitive trying to discourage, trying to ban this Karen slur, which, of course, is a meme that emerged back in early 2020.. I think the fact is that it is a prejudice, pejorative term used primarily, used exclusively, in fact, against middle aged, generally middle class white women, And they're called Karens. We saw the bike Karen incident, of course, last week in New York- I'm going to get to that video later- where she was vilified, monstered by social media mobs. They exposed her career to harm The hospital she worked for, actually threw her under a bus and put her on leave Again. her private information was doxed. She was exposed to the sycophantic social media mobs for the crime of paying for a bike- paying to hire a bike in New York City, But, of course, because two or three black men walked up to her and claimed that it was their bike. suddenly the mass media reported that she had stolen it, that it was a racist act of Karenhood, And again she was vilified, She was monstered, Turned out. of course the lawyer had the receipts And she had indeed rented the bike. If anyone was stealing the bike, it was the group of black men who approached her. So indeed it is a slur, it is a racial pejorative used against middle-aged white women, generally also younger women in that case. But the New York Times reports Uber's diversity chief put on leave after complaints of insensitivity And that basically equated to the diversity chief considering the sensitivities of white women, which apparently you're not allowed to do because white people aren't included in diversity and inclusivity. And of course, as I told over and over again, it's impossible to be racist against white people. Uber has placed its long-time head of diversity, equity and inclusion on leave after workers complained that an employee of Enchi Moderator called Don't Call Me Karen was insensitive to people of color. Basically, a bunch of employees of white women at Uber complained that they were being smeared with this Karen terminology in the private employee chat logs that it was being bandied about on Slack. They complained about it. This diversity chief, this Asian lady, basically gave a meeting, a conference, saying please, let's stop using racial, pejorative slurs against our white employees, And basically there was massive uproar. Some of the black employees, some of the Hispanic employees at Uber basically erupted with outrage And now because of that outrage, she has been placed on leave. Uber has put its chief DER officer, Bo Young Lee, on leave after they complained that she dared consider the sensitivities of white people. We're going to get more into that and into the London white people not allowed play after the break. Iodine is naturally acquired through the soil, which is at the foundation of our entire food supply. Modern farming techniques have stripped the soil of this essential trace element, which has caused an iodine deficiency in about half the population. And there are two things we need to do about it. We need to practice more regenerative farming. There are plenty of proven technologies in permaculture and biodynamics that will naturally keep the soil rich with iodine, And we need to ensure that we get the sufficient amount of iodine every day. Derived from ancient sea salts found thousands of feet below the Earth's surface, our InfoWars Life Survival Shield X3 is, hands down, the best Pure nascent iodine stabilized in an activated triiodine form, For a healthy thyroid and a healthy metabolism. get yours now at InfoWarsStorecom Live from the SummitNews Headquarters. it's Paul Joseph Now this Uber diversity head, being put on leave for not being diverse enough in daring to include the sensitivities of white employees at Uber Again. this story was reported by the New York Times, but it was actually first reported by journalist Richard Hanania a couple of days ago. He got all the chat logs where this internal outrage erupted that the concerns of white women being called the Karen Slough were being voiced in the private Slack chat logs. He said it doesn't appear many men are involved here below the advertisements for the session and the email announcing the leave of absence. So this didn't even go public for Uber to put her on leave. This was merely an internal rebellion from some of the diverse employees within the company And it shows from these chat logs that basically no one was offended by this. to begin with Many of the Hispanic employees didn't see a problem with it whatsoever. It was basically a couple of black women in the chat logs that got angry And then, because their concerns are vastly inflated over everyone else's, it blew up massively. It became a big internal issue. It says. one of the female members of the blacks at Uber group- which apparently is a thing- tries to shame the Latinos at Uber organization for not being outraged enough and gets a few to respond. He notes that one of these employees said that they should not be triggered. That was the initial complaint. Oh, this is triggering, They said. not everything that's perceived as triggering is actually triggering. That's a thought crime. You can't say. that Goes on to say more from the Latinos at Uber channel women rushing to reassure the original triggered woman. So it's basically one or two people who got offended by this And now this diversity chief is basically she's on her way out. So the original triggered woman said their feelings are valid. There's Latinos also very, very upset. So the Latinos only got upset when they were told to be upset. basically, Chris Menahan points out that this is quite similar to Apple's diversity chief, Denise Young-Smith, who is black, being fired from her job and replaced, ironically, by a liberal white woman Because she said that a group of blue-eyed blonde men can be diverse. No, you can't have diversity if it includes white people. I keep trying to explain that During an appearance at the One World Summit in Bogota, Colombia, back in 2017, Smith had the temerity to say that diversity is a human experience. again, No, it isn't. According to them, according to their rules of segregation, of disinclusivity, white people aren't part of diversity. So you can't say that, She said. I get a little bit frustrated when diversity, or the term diversity, is tagged to the people of color or the women or LGBT. Again, they're the special protected groups. Diversity only applies to them. They only get special provisions, special considerations, special benefits. She said: get this: there can be 12 white, blue-eyed, blonde men in a room and they're going to be diverse too, because they're going to bring a different life experience and life perspective to the conversation. Again, she's not understanding that. it's not about that. It's about institutionalized racism against white people. It's about segregation. It's about non-inclusivity. She goes on to say we're told incessantly by the media and our ruling elites that America is a white supremacist nation and yet non-white diversity chiefs can't even discuss anti-white racism without losing their jobs. She was fired for saying that and this Asian head of diversity at Uber is now on leave Speaking of institutionalized anti-white racism. this is up on summitnews. White people told they're not welcome at BLM-inspired London play. Yes, segregation is back and it's progressive. Once again, diversity equals white people. White people have been told not to attend a BLM-inspired theater production in London so that black audience members can enjoy it without being subjected to the white gaze, Which again suggests that they would be uncomfortable in the mere presence of white people. What could be more segregationist than that? What could be more vilifying? What could be more dehumanizing? to even suggest that white people, being in the same vicinity, would? what Make them wretch, Make them gag, Make them run in fear? Apparently, that's what they mean by the white gaze. This is the Theatre Royal Stratford East, which is located in a diverse area of London, which means not many white people there. Vastly declining number of them has been accused of setting a dangerous precedent after it was revealed that white visitors have been told to stay away from the July 5th performance of Tambo and Bones. And in fact, we've got a clip from the director of this play, Matthew Gier, explaining what it's all about. Let's go to this clip right now. Hi, my name is Matthew Zia, I'm the Artistic Director of Actors Touring Company and I'm really excited to be bringing Tambo & Bones to Theatre Royal Stratford East. Tambo & Bones is a darkly provocative satire on rape and it looks at the confluence of capitalism and black performance, with these two minstrels who find themselves trapped in a minstrel show In 2023, trying to work out how to get out. they do get out of the minstrel show and they find themselves again trapped by a cliche and stereotype and do the only thing that is possible to do to really break out of the white gaze. It's funny, it's hilarious, it's provocative. it asks an awful lot of its audience in terms of the interaction and response. It's written by an amazing writer called Dave Harris, from West Philadelphia, born and raised in the playground is where he spent most of his days. It's got a hip-hop concert in the middle. For those of you who do know. those of you who don't know, I spent 15 years as a hip-hop DJ, supporting all sorts of acts like Grandmaster, Flash, De La Soul, lots of UK acts like Plan B and Estelle, And so for me to be returning to Theatre Royal Stratford East, which is a theatre I grew up in, with a hip-hop inspired satire about race and performance just feels full circle, feels absolutely brilliant. Now note how he said there that the two main characters in this play, to which white people have been told not to attend for one night only. thankfully for them, because they'd make no money. they'd basically go bankrupt. it'd be a massive loss financially because black people generally don't tend to go to plays in London. The people who attend theatre productions in London are white middle class progressives who are themselves trapped within the confines of white guilt. so in fact that's the very kind of play that would only appeal to them. Black people would probably not be interested in it because if you look at the figures they're not really interested in theatre, in play at all in London. so they basically wiped out their actual main demographic audience that would end up going to this show. But note how he said there in the clip, the director, that these two characters in this BLM inspired race grievance play, which is basically every other play in London now in the West End. it's either about that or it's awkwardly crowbarred into it. he said the two main characters in the show end up doing- quote: the only thing that is possible to do to really break out of the white gaze. Gee, I wonder what that is and if it has anything to do with extinguishing white people altogether. I don't know. I haven't seen the play, but he left the question hanging there, didn't he? He also mentioned that the two characters stage a hip-hop performance in the middle of the show and I've read reviews on that, even from left-wing progressive media outlets, and they basically said it was tawdry and horrible. and then they become activists for Black Lives Matter. so it's basically an out-and-out politicized BLM race grievance play. so it's no surprise that white people have been told to stay away, at least again for one night. Theatre organizers said the one-off blackout event would serve to create a safe, private space for an all-black identifying audience- All-black identifying audience. so maybe if you identify as black, maybe if you do a Rachel Dolezal, you can turn up, maybe if you get the boot polish out, I don't know. A blackout night is the purposeful creation of an environment which an all-black identifying audience can experience and discuss an event. However, Britain's first black police and crime commissioner has come out and said that it sets a poor and dangerous precedent and strongly urged the theatre and director to cancel the event entirely. This isn't just the directors, this isn't just the people behind the play, the theatre itself. it was basically their idea to say: white people not allowed, they're not part of diversity. Summitnews will be back. don't go away. I want to thank all of you over the years who have supported InfoWars financially, with word of mouth and prayer. All the success that we've had together against the globalists and the fact that we're not caught flat-footed during their major takeover is because of you. Humanity has a real fighting chance. I just want to thank you all for buying products at InfoWarsStorecom, like books and films and supplements, and water filtration, air filtration, so much more. But for those of you that want to actually give us a straight donation so we get almost 100% of the money to fund our operation during this critical time, go to InfoWarsStorecom and right at the top you'll see a link to make a straight donation, A one-time donation of $5,, $10, $50 or a recurring donation you can cancel anytime. I want to thank all you that have donated. I want to encourage those of you out there that want to support freedom to take action now and be part of the global awakening, the new renaissance that's countering the great reset, by going to InfoWarsStorecom and clicking on the donate button and giving today. Thank you so much for your support. Please take action. TurboForce is back, sold out for eight months, and it's TurboForce Plus. We made it even stronger, The strongest long-term energy you're going to find anywhere. TurboForce is back in stock at InfoWarsStorecom or 888-253-3139.. It's not just wide spectrum natural herbs that time release over 10 hours, It should be called 10-hour energy. It has a bunch of vitamins and minerals and a bunch of other key things and amino acids that turbocharge everything and are good for your heart, your brain, your liver, you name it. It is the super fuel. RainForce Plus is great. RainForce Alt is great. They're two different nootropics. They go good with this. but this is the King Kong, This is the boss. TurboForce back in stock, discounted, InfoWarsStorecom. more power, more strength, more energy. I talk a lot about the great successes InfoWars has had. I don't think anybody can deny it, and it is because of listeners and viewers supporting us. When we talk about the crew at InfoWars- people behind the scenes, the researchers, the riders- they really have been the MVPs in this fight. When we look at Harrison Smith and Owen Schroer and the hard work they engage in every day- five, six, seven days a week- it's really just incredible For myself and the whole InfoWars crew. I thank you for your past support. I only encourage you now to realize that InfoWars cannot stay on air if you do not support us. I know you spread the word. I know you pray for us. That's wonderful. Keep doing it. Most viewers and listeners never go to InfoWarsStorecom and you never buy great products that enrich and empower your life while at the same time keeping us on air. I know that less than 1% of our listeners actually go buy products at InfoWarsStorecom. If just 1% more of you took action and went to InfoWarsStorecom, our funding problems will be over. Please take action now. Hydrofluorosilicic acid is the third most deadly acid on earth and they've got our children drinking that. This is a psychotic death cult period case closed out to get you and your family. We sell the Alexa Pure Breeze made by the MyPatriotSupply Ready Hour Group. It's been around about 15 years, became the biggest company in the last six. They went out, hired engineers, reverse engineered the fancy best water filter system out there that sells for twice the price and they made it as good in all the studies. It reduces things to non-detectable levels- thousands of chemicals, but you can go pay two or three times. There's four or five other filters out there that are just as good. We sell the very best, highest grade water filtration system for half the price of leading competitor and the media says: we're bad and a cult for telling you you should filter your water. You should also filter your shower water. That's another way you absorb this crap, but I'm done talking about that. The point is you get the filters at InfoWarsStorecom- They're discounted right now- Finally back in stock, Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones. So white people have been told not to attend a BLM-inspired play in London. part of the cultural segregation that we see going on as multiculturalism, as diversity, is rammed down our throats, White people, it seems, are being increasingly pushed to the fringes and told that they're not a part of that, And, in fact, the only legal, institutionalized racism that we see in many Western countries now is increasingly against white people. Of course, in the United Kingdom, for example, we have had, since 2010, the Equality Act, which allows for positive action when employers are hiring staff members, employees- when it comes to their race. So, for example, if both candidates, according to the eyes of the employer, are both equally of merit, equally suitable for whatever particular role it is, it's completely lawful to pick the non-white candidate and relegate the white candidate based on their race alone. So, again, a piece of legislation introduced to address racism actually enforces racism, institutionalized employee racism against white people, And we see another example of that today out of this RT article: London bars whites from internship posting. This is a paid internship posting at the UK government transit body, Transport for London, which is obviously the body that runs all the underground trains- overground trains too- in the capital- which is restricted to non-white applicants, And it's triggered widespread outrage after being posted to social media. This is a Stuart Ross communications internship which pays a total of $27,000 a year for 11 months of London-based hybrid working with one or two days per week in the office, And it requires the applicant, requires white people not allowed. again, this is diversity- to be of black, Asian and minority ethnic background. Bear in mind, of course, that in London- in fact not just in London- in Manchester, Birmingham, other major UK cities, the biggest UK cities- white British people are now a majority minority And in London it's down now, I believe, according to the latest census, into the late 30s in terms of percentage of white British people who live in the capital city of England. But apparently we need to discriminate against them more by saying they literally can't apply for jobs. Again, the applicant has to be a black, Asian and minority ethnic background defined as having some African, Afro-Caribbean, Asian or other non-white heritage. They deliberately specify non-white. The racial qualification is listed ahead of the requirement that the applicant be either an undergraduate or recent graduate on track to receive a 2.2 in any degree, And it goes on to basically say: white's not allowed. Farage, on Twitter, posted this. He said: what if there was an advert saying blacks need not apply? There'd be massive outrage. And again, despite the fact that white British people are indeed a minority- majority minority, at least in these big UK cities- they are still being discriminated against. And it's all legal, It's all lawful, as I just said, under the 2010 Equalities Act. Now I'm going to get into the latest transgender propaganda news and all the fun and goodies that the alphabet people are bringing us. But first let's touch on a bit of good news, because I've got this clip, which some of you will have seen, some of you won't have seen, of Elon Musk talking to an NBC journalist, And it ties into this article. Poll shows how radically different Americans' opinions are from liberal corporate media narratives. Again, we have this wall of the censorship industrial complex. We have the wall of fact checkers, legacy media outlets trying to push one narrative, trying to monster vilify anyone who disagrees with that narrative and trying to portray them as a tiny extremist minority fringe, Turns out that's complete BS. And journalist Glenn Greenwald has highlighted how a new Harris Harvard poll, which has been covered practically nowhere in the mainstream media- gee, I wonder why- displays how Americans hold almost wholly opposite opinions to liberal corporate media narratives. Again, the dominant narratives that they will have you believe are embraced and compassed by 90 plus percent of the population are simply not. They're being rejected in greater and greater numbers. Majorities of Americans consider Russian collusion as a false story, believe the Hunter Biden laptop story was never misinformation. He goes on to say: the majority of Americans believe the Bidens have engaged in criminal activity and that the FBI is refusing to investigate. All along down the list of these dominant media narratives, Americans are rejecting them in droves. which brings me to this video of Elon Musk being interviewed by an NBC journalist and he basically made his head explode for daring to say he will not value making money over promoting the truth. This is called. He Just Can't Understand It. Let's roll it. A legacy media journo was left confused when Elon Musk tried to explain something to him that he couldn't possibly understand. But not absolutely. everything you do should serve the interests of obtaining money and power. An incredible thought. I know You tweeted this thing about George Soros. You said he wants to erode the very fabric of civilization. But why share it? I don't know. maybe because it's true. Why share it when people who buy Teslas may not agree with you? Advertisers on Twitter may not agree with you? Why voice an opinion when Procter and Gamble might not like it, Which is obviously the most important thing in society? Or there are advertisers on Twitter that Linda Yaccarino will come and say: you got to stop man. Or you know, I can't get these ads because of some of the things you tweet. Wait for it. You know. I'm reminded of a scene in The Princess Bride, great movie, where he confronts the person who killed his father. He says: Offer me money, Offer me power. I don't care. Offer me money, Offer me power, Anything you want, I don't care. See, you just don't care. You don't care about sacrificing all your principles to bloat the bottom line of transnational corporations. You actually care instead that when you die, you'll be remembered for something real, something other than being a complete sellout for the almighty dollar. What a truly bizarre concept. I'll say what I want to say, and if the consequence of that is losing money, so be it. Okay. The host, David Faber, then shared his utter bewilderment that Musk would dare use his platform to challenge the mainstream narrative on a certain recent mass event. And that's a debate you want to get into on Twitter. Yes, Because we should not be ascribing things to white supremacy if it's false. Okay. The sheer temerity of Elon to challenge the agreed-upon fake consensus. Bethany McLean, a CNBC contributor, was equally flummoxed To me. he sounds like a spoiled child when he talks about free speech. If you run a business that depends on advertisers, you might have to think about it a little bit differently, And Musk seems to be utterly unwilling to make that distinction. Oh no, he might. He just might, Man. I know this sounds crazy. See, his role in the world is something beyond pleasing the banal sensibilities of big corporations, A concept that's totally alien to regime sycophants, Because they can't begin to fathom an existence beyond obeying and amplifying the message Lest it negatively affect their ranking in the peanut gallery alongside other obsequious, conformist NPC slaves. This is Adam King, host of The Adam King Show, joined by the one and only Greg Rees of The Rees Report. We wanted to hop on and send everybody to Infowarsstorecom. Click this QR code right above, Greg Rees. Buy yourself a Faraday cage, super male vitality or what Greg has. Greg, what do you got there? If you really want to treat yourself to something nice, get yourself an Alexa Pure water filter and get clean, healthy water whenever you want it, wherever you want it, Even if the water pressure goes out. the gravity-fed water filter has got you covered Absolutely, and we couldn't do any of this without listener support. I was telling Greg earlier we're like the real NPR, the real NPR of the base, right. So click that QR code right there on your screen right now. Take out your phone. click that QR code. It'll take you directly to Infowarsstorecom. Buy something, support the Infowar. Keep Alex Jones, Orange, Royer Harrison, Smith, Greg Rees, Adam King and the rest of us on air. Do it today, Do it now. Support the Infowar. I talk a lot about the great successes Infowars has had. I don't think anybody can deny it, And it is because of listeners and viewers supporting us When we talk about the crew at Infowars, people behind the scenes, the researchers, the writers. they really have been the MVPs in this fight And we look at Harrison Smith and Owen Schroer and the hard work they engage in every day, five, six, seven days a week. It's really just incredible. So for myself- the whole Infowars crew- I thank you for your past support. I only encourage you now to realize that Infowars cannot stay on air if you do not support us. I know you spread the word, I know you pray for us And that's wonderful. Keep doing it. But most viewers and listeners never go to Infowarsstorecom and you never buy great products that enrich and empower your life while at the same time keeping us on air. I know that less than 1% of our listeners actually go buy products at Infowarsstorecom. If just 1% more of you took action and went to Infowarsstorecom, our funding problems will be over. Please take action now. In the early 1900s, certain companies were off-gassing highly toxic fluoride gases into the atmosphere. The surrounding communities began to get sick. Laws were enacted to compel these corporations to install scrubbers to convert these gases into fluorosilicic acid, Still highly toxic but containable Now. these companies had a stockpile of this poison and there was no affordable way to dispose of it. Lucky for them, one of their major stockholders was also the Secretary of the Treasury, who was responsible for the public health service at the time, And by 1950, the US government began buying this toxic, untreated industrial waste product and dumping it into our drinking water. Reputable studies show that it's causing various cancers and other disease. With the Alexa Pure Pro, you can have clean drinking water and a remedy to this madness, Available now at Infowarsstorecom. Please give me one minute of your time, Please write this down and please go look this up. It will change your life. The UN admits, and the Lansing Medical Journal admits, that upwards of two billion people have mental disabilities and declining cognitive abilities. The term they use is intellectual disability because of lack of iodine. Most iodine in the environment is bound to other elements, so your body can't absorb it. Only pure iodine can really be absorbed right into the cells, And Infowarsstorecom has the only iodine out there that actually has this type of full effect. Ladies and gentlemen, X3 has been sold out for six months. It's very hard to produce and it's finally back in stock. In fact, I was just taking some before I shot this ad. This, ladies and gentlemen, is powerful. You and your family need it. It's 25% off. back in stock. X3, triiodine exclusively at Infowarsstorecom. Take action now, but regardless, research is info Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. It's Alex Jones, Live from London, England. it's Paul Joseph Watson with SummitNews. I want to get to this video, which I put up just a couple of hours ago, because it really ties into the spiraling crime problems being experienced by people in major cities, not just in America, but in Europe as well. Of course, we've had San Francisco experiencing spiraling problems with homelessness, with open air, drug use, similar situation in New York And, of course, this is why many of the big box retailers are hightailing it and getting out of there altogether. Now we learn- and this is an article out of Moon Battery: social service kiosks for thieves. How could progressives keep progressing after the ultra leftist Bill de Blasio appeared to take Moon Battery to the last possible extreme? Well, they're dealing with the massive rush of thieves stealing products because, of course, as in many of these cities, it got lowered from a criminal offense to a misdemeanor. They're now having to put, of course, many products, not even expensive products, behind glass cases, locked cabinets. Well, they've got a solution in New York City, as the Democrat mayor's plan laid out in a bullet point format during the local Fox 5 broadcast included providing de-escalation training for retail employees. because of course, the criminal thieves, when they rush in there in their bicycles with their giant bags, just hoovering up products from the shelves and hightailing it out of there, of course they're going to stop for a de-escalation conversation with the store employees, aren't they? That's really going to work. They've also suggested putting kiosks in stores that connect would-be thieves to social services. So, yeah, they're going in there with the intent of raiding all the store shelves filling up their goodie bag with stolen items. but if you just have a quiet conversation with them and say, no, we can have you, chat to someone, maybe get some therapy, that, of course, is going to stop them right in their tracks, isn't it? Meanwhile, Telegraph reports San Francisco crime surge drives tech chief Exodus to London. San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city in favor of London. amid soaring crime rates in Silicon Valley. Is that really the best idea, given that we've just recorded last year the highest ever crime records in the United Kingdom, particularly in London, where stabbing street muggings are completely out of control? Which brings us to this next video, which is a big controversy today, about the behavior of a certain TikTok prankster and what he gets up to: filming himself committing crimes for clout, for social media- dopamine- on the streets of London. This is called. He F'd Around and Found Out. Let's roll it. This 18-year-old TikToker thought it would be a fantastic idea to film himself committing crimes on camera for social media clout, by chasing people in the street while wearing a balaclava, asking them if they want to die. Yo, So it's you. Where are you going, son? It's you with the glasses. Well, yeah, do the thing. What, What? I can't believe this. Oh, no, no, it's not. Basically, man saw you from over there. yeah, Take a seat, Take a seat, bro. Man just saw you from over there, innit, yeah, And you didn't like it when I told him: get a dye, But it's just hair dye. Look, dye, It's hair dye, bro, It's just hair dye. Wow, that's hysterical. Let's go, James, Come to the front door right now, please. James. James, Are you my son? Hello, James, This is Peter James. James, Hi, Is this where the study group is? No, no, What number is this? No, Home invading a family with young children. Bro, that's so humorous. you should do stand-up. Interesting, isn't it, how not a single one of the targets of his pranks ever realises that it's a prank. It's a prank. It's a prank What. The following footage is from our vault of classics, taken ten years ago. Alonis Sowers is here while asking them if they want to die. You've got some nice hair, nice and luscious. Do you wanna die? Huh, I'm asking you a question, a serious question. do you wanna die? No, Past speak, I'm talking to you. No, You don't wanna die. Some of Allis's pranks were in any way funny, satirical or a facilitator for social commentary, but they're not. they consist entirely of just frightening people and acting like an obnoxious little twat. Take this stunt where he walks into a library and starts ripping up books. Alright, boom, we're in the library. I'm sorry, I'm in a school, Excuse me. what can I um do to book here? Oh, just get a bill. okay, it's bookies, Right. okay, just one minute. If I can get books from the library, why can't I rip the pages out of the books as well? Because then other people can't use them. So who gives a fuck about other people? Can you get this? sorry? Okay, can you get Adam please? Again, hilarious. Maybe if Mizzy's age matched his behaviour and he was an 8 year old kid, it might be cute. It isn't. Despite being exposed as perhaps the most annoying little prick to ever grace the internet, Mizzy was unrepentant saying it was all worth it for the clout. I don't let things affect me, because you guys are on social media, giving me what I want. basically, at the end of the day, You're commenting on all these videos, you're engaging, you're posting me more, sharing me everywhere. It's just making my ting blow up. We are going viral lads, More viral than I've been in the past like 2-3 years, And it was all made possible by the cancer on society that is TikTok, From human trafficking to dangerous TikTok challenges that have led directly to children killing themselves, to the sexualisation of kids, Although it has clamped down on the most dangerous thing to exist ever- Right-wing political opinions. So the media largely gives it a pass. Mizzy's look finally ran out, though, after he was arrested for picking on the wrong person. He filmed himself assaulting orthodox Jews in Stanford Hill, an area of London with a large Jewish population, by leapfrogging over their backs in the street. Mizzy f***ed around and found out. Police held the TikToker for 36 hours before charging him with racially aggravated assault, But the cops went soft and he only ended up being charged with the far lesser crime of criminal damage. Just yesterday, Mizzy posted a video of a police officer reading out a list of crimes he'd committed. that's as long as your arm, But, crucially, the teenager's offensive behaviour doesn't seem to have challenged any of the sacred narratives. He's no threat to the message. So, unlike some people in the UK who get years in prison for mean tweets, expect Mizzy to get away with a slap on the wrist. But, in a stunning coincidence, the media and MPs only really went after Mizzy after they had the ingenious idea of exploiting his antics to justify passing the online safety bill, An odious piece of legislation working its way through parliament that targets free speech via the backdoor Under which social media giants would have to remove, at the threat of being hit with massive fines, lawful but nebulously characterised quote: harmful speech. There's been a big struggle over whether that definition will be included in the final version, but left-wing parties are also lobbying to have health-related misinformation and disinformation included, as well as all manner of other sneak attacks that would extinguish freedom of expression. MPs warn vile prankster that new law will force social media sites to delete his videos. Paul Scully, Minister for Tech and Digital Economy, has warned TikTok that the forthcoming online safety bill will mean social media companies would have to delete the content. Oh, that must mean the online safety bill is a good thing then, But wait, TikTok and all the other platforms already ban content that encourages or enables criminal behaviour. Please give me one minute of your time. Please write this down and please go look this up. It will change your life. The UN admits, and the Lancet Medical Journal admits, that upwards of 2 billion people have mental disabilities and declining cognitive abilities. The term they use is intellectual disability because of lack of iodine. Most iodine in the environment is bound to other elements, so your body can't absorb it. Only pure iodine can really be absorbed right into the cells, And Infowarsstorecom has the only iodine out there that actually has this type of full effect. Ladies and gentlemen, X3's been sold out for six months. It's very hard to produce and it's finally back in stock. In fact, I was just taking some before I shot this ad. This, ladies and gentlemen, is powerful. You and your family need it. It's 25% off. back in stock X3. Try iodine exclusively at Infowarsstorecom. Take action now, but regardless- research is info. You need to get coordinated with not only your food but also your health supplements, because it's going to be a matter of life and death. So support Infowarsstore. Listen, you need to put it as a priority, because you don't know, I don't know, Alex and I are telling you how late it is before midnight strikes. And again, magnesium is critical for your muscles and everything. Krill oil- What I'm watching right before my eyes is a composite overview of nutritional supplements that will keep you alive, And I would urge everyone. maybe you don't take vitamins, Maybe you don't take nutritional supplements, But the day will come. Vitamin C and zinc: absolutely imperative for the cold DNA force- absolutely imperative. Mineral fusion: absolutely. As you're drinking filtered water, a lot of it will become demineralized. You have to have these products, Ladies and gentlemen. the truth, The solution, is laying right there in front of you, hidden in plain view. Please listen to me in the next 60 seconds. If you go to Wikipedia, it has links to the UN's own website where they admit the number one cause of cognitive disability in the world is iodine deficiency. The number one preventable cause of intellectual disability is lack of real, pure iodine in the body as they bomb us with the bad halogens- bromine, bromide, chlorine and so much more. Upwards of 2 billion people in a Lancet medical journal study in 2007, worldwide have cognitive disabilities because they don't have high quality iodine. Most iodine is bound to other elements. You don't absorb it. We have X3, all three types of good iodine together that supercharges your body. X3 is now back in stock at InfoWarsTorecom. It's been sold out for over six months for 25% off. X3, back in stock. Take action now, InfoWarsTorecom. Iodine is naturally acquired through the soil, which is at the foundation of our entire food supply. Modern farming techniques have stripped the soil of this essential trace element, which has caused an iodine deficiency in about half the population, And there are two things we need to do about it. We need to practice more regenerative farming. There are plenty of proven technologies in permaculture and biodynamics that will naturally keep the soil rich with iodine. And we need to ensure that we get the sufficient amount of iodine every day, derived from ancient sea salts found thousands of feet below the Earth's surface. Our InfoWars Life Survival Shield X3 is, hands down, the best Pure, nascent iodine, stabilized in an activated triiodine form, For a healthy thyroid and a healthy metabolism. get yours now at InfoWarsTorecom. Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones. You're listening to the SummitNews Radio Hour with Paul Joseph Watson. Well, we have several new stories about the ongoing Alphabet People propaganda campaign and how it ties into big retailers. Of course, Gay Pride Month is coming up next month. We're going to see the LGBT flags, We're going to see the Tranny flags, We're going to see all the giant corporations supporting this supposedly marginalised movement that enjoys the support of cultural institutions, governments, banks, big business. And now Target has become the latest target of anti-woke boycott as it sells Satanist, Pride, LGBTQ plus products for kids Hands. are we the baddies? Target has become the latest entity to face widespread boycott from Americans who are sick of corporations using wokeness to market products to children. And now they're stocking products literally designed by a Satanist featuring occult imagery, Because that's the kind of healthy motif that we need to be pushing on children, isn't it? Wisconsin activist Scarlett Johnson brought attention to Target stocking products from a designer going by the name of Apralen, some of which embrace Satanism. The items include We Belong Everywhere Messenger Bag, a Too Queer For Here Tote Bag and a Cure Transphobia, Not Trans People Sweatshirt- all listed as Pride Adult Clothing, But it was a Satan Respects Pronoun Shirt that garnered the most attention. Now, if your movement is garnering respect from Satan. maybe that tends to suggest that you're not on the right side With the description about LGBTQ plus people being so often referred to as being a product of Satan or going against God's will, but being more accepted by the Church of Satan and the Satanic Temple, that's, by society at large. yeah, If your biggest cheerleader is literally the Church of Satan and the Satanic Temple, chances are that this hashtag be kind movement isn't really very beneficent. The Satanists don't actually believe in Satan. he's merely used as a symbol of passion, pride and limited liberty. Well, yeah, some of them do believe in him. even those who don't are obviously using it as an excuse to justify their own degeneracy, their own evil, by merely claiming again that they're not responsible for any of their malevolent behavior, not beholden to any kind of responsibilities. Goes on to say: he means to you what you need him to mean, which is basically the Satanic credo, isn't it? Do what thou will shall be the whole of the law. basically, do whatever you want, sod everyone else, commit evil, be malevolent. So for me, Satan is hope, compassion, equality and love. The description claims adding: so, naturally, Satan respects pronouns, he loves all LGBT plus people, And that's a fantastic mascot to have for your movement, isn't it? Other products feature skeletons draped in pride and trans colors, gay cult stuff. Again, it literally says: we're part of a gay cult And this is what Target has chosen to endorse and sell in its stores. Again, Target- the same company that is busy pulling some of its stores out of major cities because they keep being looted over and over again- now choosing to go down the Bud Light Dylan Avery route and risking another potential massive, successful boycott. So good luck with that. Meanwhile- this came out last week and most people didn't even see it- Transgender mass shooter also targeted Cathedral. During a killing spree, transgender mass shooter Audrey Hale also targeted a neo-Gothic cathedral attached to the Covenant school. This came out as a result of an article written by a family member of one of the victims, who revealed this detail, which hadn't so far been revealed in news. media reports that the killer targeted a cathedral, shot out some stained glass windows, And then it was reported again last week that this manifesto, of course whenever there's a manifesto online from a white shooter, or indeed an obscure profile on a Russian social media website- that fits in with the exact narrative that the regime wants to push. that was very convenient, wasn't it last week? Well, it's released within 24 hours. Everybody knows the history of the shooter, their motivation, their latest Facebook post, every single intricate detail. And we're now what getting towards, two months after the Nashville shooting, The manifesto- which is voluminous, if reports are bitter-believed- has not been released, No plans to release it, And it in fact came out that this is part of a litigation and it's in fact the parents of the dead children who don't want the manifesto released. It says no one was more traumatized or suffered more than the families of the victims and survivors of the Covenant school tragedy. No one can claim a remotely similar interest in whether the writings of the shooter should be released. states a legal brief. They say the manifesto is the work of a mentally deranged person and is dangerous and harmful. A lot of people would counter that and say we need to understand the motivations behind what is increasingly becoming a violent movement to try and prevent such tragedies from happening again. But that is one of the main reasons why we haven't seen the manifesto so far. Meanwhile, Daily Signal reports exclusive. this just came out, in fact, today. leaked policy exposes Fox News stances on woke ideology, says Fox News employees are allowed to use bathrooms that align with their gender identity rather than their biological sex. So hairy men wearing dresses are allowed to go into female bathrooms, basically, and they're permitted to dress in alignment with their preferred gender. This is Fox News. the conservative broadcaster says they must also be addressed by their preferred name and pronouns in the workplace. That's come out as part of Fox News' workplace transition plan, which has now been revealed Again, drilling to the core of the fact that Fox News is a complete front when it comes to representing conservative voices in America. They're complete sellouts. They beholden to the regime. They're fake loyal opposition and that's one of the main reasons why they got rid of Tucker Carlson. Meanwhile, US State Department offers counseling to staff after pronoun glitch. Again, Fox News would be presumably right on board with this policy. The US State Department has offered free therapy to employees who were hurt or upset when the email system misgendered them. all poor babies with random he, him or she, her pronouns. Amid its embrace of all things LGBT, the State Department now reportedly requires all employees to list their pronouns in their email signatures. So, basically, they're offering therapy to the people who were so grievously harmed by being accurately described as their birth gender. Let's go to this final video now, a bit of a change of gears. I'm talking about the emergence of non-native big black cats in the United Kingdom. Fascinating subject This video is called. They're Here. Let's roll it. Well, there's no doubt about it. they're here. No, not them. I'm talking about big cats being sighted across the UK And finally, some previously elusive scientific evidence that the phenomenon is indeed real. The Cotswold town of Chipping Camden is buzzing with reports of a black cat patrolling its rural outskirts. Jane Wolfe saw the big black beast along Conduit Hill about to pounce on something going up a tree. last month. The creature was also seen by another person And a Facebook post from this morning relates a similar tale. A man was driving down into Westington, which is just down the hill from Conduit Hill, at around 1am last night. He saw the black beast dart out behind his car and across the road. He said it was much bigger than a domestic cat and almost the size of a dog. Another black panther was also spotted earlier this year in nearby Perthshire. In fact, Gloucestershire in general has been awash with reports of black panthers and black leopards. Concern is building because there have been numerous sheep attacks linked to the sightings. But now we have firm proof that, yes, indeed, big cats are running wild in the UK. A hair sample from a barbed wire fence was tested after footage emerged of a big cat a few miles away. The farm in question lost two sheep to predatory attacks And toothpick analysis showed they'd been killed by large carnivores. Mitochondrial DNA analysis of the hair ascertained a 99% match to a big cat species. There's no longer any doubt that they're here In Gloucestershire. the big cats are becoming so common. they're being seen near airports and on the side of motorways. How many of these things are just skulking around out there breeding with each other Now? obviously, big cats roaming wild around the countryside aren't native to the UK, So how on earth did they get here? Some more imaginative types have tied the whole phenomenon to the weird and wonderful world of cryptids and UFOs, But the more likely explanation is far more down to earth. The Dangerous Wild Animals Act of 1976 made it illegal to keep big cats without a licence and stringent accommodation regulations being followed. The result: Well, particularly in the south-west of England, Many of the people who had been keeping them as exotic pets simply released them all into the wild. What could possibly go wrong Because releasing them into the wild wasn't banned until the 1981 Countryside Act. So these big cats being witnessed now are the offspring of those that were released in the late 70s. Officially, it's being reported that these big cats now seem to appear healthy, confident and comfortable in their environment. They're not recent escapees, they're permanent residents, Which means the government may have to act if they keep increasing in number and killing livestock. Have you seen a big cat in the UK? Let me know in the comments below. Not gonna have time to get into these final stories in any detail, but Bud Light Distributor sends out a public plea to bring back customers. They continue to haemorrhage money as a result of fucking woke insanity. Target take note: Bud Light Melvaniad may violate ethics rule against promoting booze to kids. The fallout continues. It shows no sign of stopping. That's gonna wrap it up for the show. War Room is next I'm going. Just weeks ago I warned the world that the Globalists were going to move against Tucker Carlson and take him off the air. People said no way. he's the most powerful thing that ever happened. They've got quadrillions of stolen money. They only had Tucker Carlson on the air because they believed they could control him, But as soon as they figured out they couldn't, he was taken off the air. It's the same thing with Infowars, But Infowars is not owned by Fox or controlled by George Soros, or owned by Spotify, like Joe Rogan. We are only beholden to our viewers and our listeners, And when you support us, we are unstoppable. I'm not underwritten by Rupert Murdoch or by George Soros. I'm underwritten by you, which is we, the people. So I want to thank you for your support and encourage viewers and listeners to understand. please don't take Infowars for granted. We're barely hanging on. We need your word of mouth, your prayer, your financial support, while getting great products at the same time at Infowarsstorecom. So don't procrastinate. Go to Infowarsstorecom, get amazing products that keep us on the air and never submit to these tyrants. They decided to not perp walking, not put him in handcuffs, not do a mugshot, because they knew that that would help Trump, Didn't? they know this would backfire. We were waiting for the mugshot. We learned today they wouldn't have it, so we've made our own And it says political prisoner With an image of President Trump. The shirt is being printed now in Texas. It'll be shipping out to you in one week: Political prisoner with Trump on the front there in a mugshot jail background. It's a fundraiser shirt. It says Infowarscom on the back of the shirt. We also have Alex Jones for president. No, I'm not running for president. It's a really nice navy blue, high-quality shirt. red, white and blue, Alex Jones for president 2024.. It's a fun conversational piece and a limited edition shirt. Great way to fund the operation. So get your Alex Jones for president and Trump mugshot shirts at Infowarscom or by calling toll-free 888-253-3139.. If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance live from the info warscom studios. it's Alex Jones. They've admitted we don't have the adults. Al Gore says this: we're going right for your children, Our earth, healthy, strong and full of life. but wait, what's that you've got there? it looks like you've got a case of the humans. to be a healthy earth, all of your elements must be in equilibrium. however, these parasites slaughter all other forms of life, guzzle your natural resources and poison your atmosphere. once contracted, humans act quickly. they multiply over 300,000 a day. earth is just the start. who knows what's next? I just played for you the 2007 Berlin film festival winner of short films. it's called humans by three legs and it shows humans not just a scourge on the planet earth, the people that brought you Beethoven, the folks that brought you mathematics, the mind of Max Planck envisioning atomic theory, and I mean that's humans. we are a scourge, and it shows us unfortunately spreading the space and destroying the universe at the end. I mean this is incredible, and I was just thinking this morning about how many video clips I mean. I have ABC news Australia, the headline teaching kids when to die and it says if you don't kill yourself by 11 or 14 in the calculations. even if you try to have a good carbon footprint, you must die at 14. little animals died. it shows little puppies having their heads chopped up. in fact, guys pull up the ABC story. ABC tells kids when to die. and then we have the prison planet article that actually has screenshots- because they pulled it- of the- the heads of being cut off of small animals. so the message is: small animals are dying. and I talked to parents who still have their children in private school and government brainwashing camps. that's why I homeschool my children and their young daughters and sons will start crying when they see a construction site or bulldozers and they say: I need to die. I mean, I've had people at pool parties, you know, tell me this. their children cry: it's seven year olds, it's time for me to die, I'm evil. and then we have, of course, this 1010 project funded the climate exchange in Al Gore, the guardian, local governments in England funding it, saying it's your choice. and the kids say: I don't want to make carbon cuts. and so they murder them, they blow them up with guts and blood and those that submit to the tyranny? they have blood all over them and are horrified and they kill footballers and blow up coaches and blow up talk show host and they have a corporate scene with a corporate boss standing above all his employees with an arrogant, effeminate- you know behavior these people always have for some reason- and and says, oh lovely, you're not going to do it. good, I get to kill you. and kills them. so then I have this article on alternative to the new wave of eco fascism. the guardian says why these calls for total tyranny and Nazism are, are, are bad. we just need a soft, loving tyranny. so there's a total shift to the, to them saying: look, you won't go along with this, we're going to kill you. Dillingpole, an expert on this, joins us and we're going to later play a short clip of Pichari saying: hey, we're going to scare the kids. and they've admitted we don't have the adults. Al Gore says this: we're going right for your children, so are you going to let them indoctrinate your children with an anti human hate of themselves and how to commit suicide? these people are totally criminal. I mean, they're trying to arrest members of your parliament in Europe who criticize Muslims mildly for hate crime. is this not a hate crime, teaching kids to commit suicide? and that was 11 years ago, 2007. anti human agenda exposed now at band on video. share it while you still can stay with us. we'll be right back. Stephen Crowder coming up. the technocrats, the social engineers, the behavioral psychologist- they're all part of the same satanic, globalist control freak system that seeks to play God, that seeks to turn the general population of this earth into their slaves, into putting into play in their hands that they control, and chief amongst their physical attacks is keeping us from high quality vitamins and minerals that are essential for life on this planet, and so the information we cover exposes their evil works and sabotages their globalist takeover. and we're having an incredible effect thanks to your support and your word about. but it's also important to take care of our bodies themselves with high quality water filtration. info or storecom with amazing supplements, many of which that just came back in stock like bodies: ultimate turmeric formula, now 40% off for a limited time at info or storecom. so let's fight the info war, but also take care of our bodies. info wars- tomorrow's news. today, Two years ago was revealed, communist Chinese agents stole super deadly viruses out of a Canadian lab and transferred them to Bill Gates's operative Fauci and does it. that's now all confirmed, Hitting mainstream news around the world. they transferred the virus that a 40% kill rate in humans that were infected. now they've souped it up the airborne and kill 80%. Bill Gates is telling you running drills right now. the more deadly virus is coming, and now we learn the virus The first time has appeared in the wild in India. Can you put two and two together, Ladies and gentlemen? this isn't the 1990s film 12 monkeys. this isn't fiction. this is happening right now. But, as the plot of the film showed, it's about a global elite wanting depopulation and pulling the trigger. Excuse me, sir, remind me, have a look at the contents of your bag, please. Biological samples. I have the papers right here. What I have? to? ask you to open this up, sir, Open it, Yes, of course. See biological. check the papers. It's all proper. permit It's empty. Well, yes, to be sure, it looks empty There you see, also invisible to the naked eye. It doesn't even have an odor. It's not necessary, sir. There you go. Thank you for your cooperation. Have a good flight. There's supposed to use the bears to look for unusual things and we're seeing unusual deaths. We're seeing secondary deaths from people just giving off something, whether it's the vaccine or some component of it that's killing other people around them. So who weren't there? who didn't receive the injection? The most compelling one is a one month old baby that was breastfeeding. mother gets a second Pfizer shot. baby dies of rare thrombocytopenia, which is one of the things. I've written a paper about this going to be published on the event. the thrombocytopenia following this drug. Thrombocytopenia, folks, is when you don't make any platelet cells and platelet cells, and when you've got to have, you don't make any platelet cells, your blood down and you can bleed to death. Right, so it's. it's an unusual. this is not anything we've seen before. it's not the thrombocytopenia that you and I have seen as physicians in the past. totally different animal and this is happening. That's the kind of thing that should stop any other vaccine program. but this is not a vaccine program, This is something else, and it's interesting that they're now telling pregnant women they can get it, children they can get it. but I'm going to read from one of the studies. it says: reproductive toxicity. animal studies of potential toxicity to reproduction and development have not yet been completed. Neither genotoxicity- meaning how it damages your genome, your DNA or RNA- or carcinogenic studies were performed. However, the components of the vaccine are not expected to have genotoxic potential. I'm comforted by that. That's Dr Lee Merritt. I have some family pretty close. family doesn't listen to me. the took the Pfizer shot and now has the platelet disease out of nowhere, three months after the shots and it's now being put on hospitals preparing to die. They have no platelets. I just learned that in the last few days It is the soft kill weapon being unrolled against us now. but it's not just scientists and doctors like Merritt that are out telling the truth. I saw this clip this morning of this amazing lady- everything she says is true- on Instagram, simply stating the facts of this criminal gaslighting. I had a gentleman argue with me today, saying that the unvaxxed are dying at a rapid rate compared to the accident. He wanted me to show him proof and not to tell him to look up some research. He provided him with CDC stats and the FDA where they recall the PCR test because they were 200% wrong on their positive cases. That was over, completely ignored. I sent him article after article about how West Virginia governor said that 97% of people in the hospitals are double vaxxed. It doesn't count. so imagine still, two years later, thinking that this is about a virus. Imagine still thinking that this is not a power grab by the government. Imagine still thinking that masks save lives. Imagine still thinking that if you're unvaccinated, you're gonna die, even though there's a 99.. I have had COVID. Do you know what I did? I took Advil and that was fine. I've had worse quotes. Why do these people think that getting COVID is an automatic death sentence? Also, why are people only dying in the hospitals? Why, Why, Why? Why aren't more people asking: Why Is discernment dead? Is common sense dead? Do these people literally just watch their TV screens and go, okay, yeah, that doesn't make sense, but I'm gonna live it. I want off. I want off this fucking ride and I want this movie to end because I have lost respect for half of society. Well, I'm ready to vote for her for president. right now I don't even know her name. She wants off this effing ride. If you want to know what living inside the New World Order is gonna be like, well, look in the mirror, because you're inside just the beginning of it And, as you notice, it gets worse by the minute. Thanks for joining us on this live. original October 19th transmission, And I see a lot of listeners email us and they call us and they say: man, all you talk about is the vaccine, All you talk about is the Great Reshed. All you talk about is the New World Order, because it's everything. It's going to destroy our way of life and finally kill us. This is modern war. I know they're teaching five-year-olds how to give blowjobs. We already know that. I know there's Satan worshipers everywhere. Hell, I got Reuters right here: 200,000 children raped in France by clergy alone. government admits Total peddlethal rings run the government. You can take one. look at Macron. He was one they used at age 12 as a sex operative. I know all that. I know the federal deserves private. I've been on there 28 years saying it. The New World Order is now attacking us. It's the Tyrannosaurus Rex eating us. I can talk about the pack of gremlins that run around behind it all day long, but this is the big world government, world ID, carbon tax, controlling everything you do. And it's just Reuters. just a minor headline: Yeah, 200,000 kids raped, told us. sex slavery, some killed No big deal, But none of it exists. CNN says, and Twitter, you know, Alex Jones is crazy. There's no peddlethal rings. Oh, no, no, no, no. And the UN and NATO just run giant operations. Yes, pure evil got control, It multiplied, It took over And now we're being attacked. So same thing in Germany. all run by the CIA, all run by the globalists to bring down the society. Because if they can't kill babies where they're born, they're sure as hell going to rape them. So here's the deal. This is what happens every day. I study at night. I get up at five in the morning, So I don't have 4.30 in the morning. I'm super well researched. I get in here and have like hundreds of articles, hundreds of clips. They're all totally insane. You just saw a bunch of them. That's not 1% of what I got today. And I got Stephen Crowder coming up in 15 minutes And I got something You want to hear about the virus. Well, most of you do. I know You understand it's a takeover. You get what this is about. This is the fight now for the whole world government. But there's bigger news that just broke on the virus. front Fauci cooked up something that kills 80% of people And evidence shows they may have already released. If you're concerned about the power grid and want to generate your own supply of off-grid electricity, this will be the most important message you'll hear this year. Here's why We now have a small number of solar generators back in stock. These emergency backup systems provide life-saving backup power when you need it most And, unlike gas generators, solar generators run quietly, emit no dangerous fumes and produce an endless supply of free electricity from the sun. Whether it's wildfires, dangerous weather, power, grid issues or just getting off the grid, you'll never have to suffer through painful power outages again. Even better, all this week radio listeners get over $700 in free off-the-grid bonuses too. Go to mysolarbackupcom to learn more and check availability. That's mysolarbackupcom. Look for the free report: crisis cooling- how to make absolutely sure your meat, milk and medicines stay safe and cool in any power outage- Yours free at mysolarbackupcom. Hey everybody, If you've ever thought about heirloom beans as a storable survival food, I've got great news. In fact, I'll bet it's the best news you've heard in a while. Here's the thing: We've just received a fresh batch of gourmet heirloom beans- survival soup beans. These beans are gorgeous, highly nutritious and above all, with no hesitation whatsoever, the best tasting beans in the entire world. The best part: We've dropped the price by 33% this week. for listeners who know higher food prices are coming and want an inflation hedge. you can actually eat if you want to. It gets even better. With your permission and with a high regard for your health and well being, I also want to send you two pounds of what we think is the single most underrated superfood in the world period. Go to soupbeansurvivalcom- that's soupbeansurvivalcom. and discover the real reason we're giving this unusual superfood away at soupbeansurvivalcom. that's soupbeansurvivalcom. If you only knew the power of the dark side, join Bill Gates and together we will defeat humanity. Then our gods will reward us with eternal life. That's basically the ethos of the globalists. They must first play God, they must first prove that they are the fittest in their social Darwinistic system. And in a way, they're right if we let them lie to us and dumb us down and poison us and destroy our children's futures- and the evidence is overwhelming and out in the open- we really deserve what's happened to us. So I ask you now: are you going to step up and expose the new order even more? I know I'm pledging to step up and redouble my efforts. The front lines of the fight is infowarscom. The COVID-19 face diaper is a symbol of subservience, a symbol of slavery, a symbol of the change that the medical tyranny combine, controlled by the global private corporations has put in place. It is the symbol of the permanent emergency from which we will never emerge. It is the symbol that we are diseased at evil and bad and must cover our diseased criminal faces from the light of the sun. It is the symbol of our complete and total absolute surrender to evil. Ladies and gentlemen, we are crossing the Rubicon now. The entire future destiny of humanity is upon us. Cloud Schwab and the UN admit they're coming out with implantable microchips as part of the World ID and carbon taxes. Things only get worse from here if we submit. They only get better if we resist and say no, Noncompliance, noncompliance, noncompliance. How about we just play some Romstein today? Very rough song, but very pretty lyrics. Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you so much for joining us on this live. October 19, 2021. transmission that the power structure is working as hard as it can to shut down. Okay, let me tell you what we got coming up for you today. I was on Stephen Crowder's show a few weeks ago in Dallas. Love the show. Super funny, super talented, super smart crew And, of course, their main star, Stephen Crowder, who is a shining star of Liberty And they've told him a lot that if he criticizes, the anointed protected group amongst all the protected groups is the trans male, the males that give up their masculinism to become female. they believe- And I don't hate people that want to do that or say that I do hate them trying to be the center of attention and take over my life and go into women's bathrooms and show their penises to people, because there is that group of them doing that- that the media is defending And also raping women inside, you know, bathroom stalls And the press even covers for that, as you know. Well, he's been told: don't you dare talk about it anymore. When you know men go to prison saying they're a woman, they go: oh, you're a woman, Oh, we'll just put you in a prison so you can rape and impregnate women. He dared criticize that. So they gave him another strike and one more. He's banned off YouTube, where he's as big as Joe Rogan ever was. on YouTube, everything he does gets millions of views, And that's despite all of them shadow banning him. So a lot of people say: hey, Alex, you know all you talk about is the great reset and the carbon tax and the forced vaccines and all of that. We really like it. when you talk about the culture wars, Well, you know, the COVID thing is the big culture war, It's the big takeover, It's the divide and conquer tactic, It's the blaming people that don't take the shots for all the sicknesses and while the globalists actually depopulate the general public, I mean this is the big extermination move. But it is important to look at the other aspects. they've got to depopulate and deindustrialize the West And in China they have a one-shot policy where they kill the little girls mainly. In some towns they have two to one boys born in the last 30 years. in China They've gotten rid of that. Now they have three children the government wants them to have because now they've broken with the globalist to a great extent at least in that policy. They're now going with a more race-based type system that you would call more nationalistic in the vernacular, but a race-based nationalism. But here you need to understand that at the end of the day, from the Tavistock Institute and from the Carnegie Endowment and from the CIA, they developed and deployed this transgenerous in the 50s, began to gestate in the 60s, began deploying in the 70s, 80s and 90s As the West one-shot policy if you can't kill one of the children before they're ever born or keep them from being born. you need to kill their fertility. And if you give girls or boys puberty blockers or physically chop off and mutilate their genitals, their ovaries or their testicles, then they do become a genetic eunuch so that they cannot have any progeny. And so let's just say what it is in their own literature They can fancy it all up and have Caitlyn Jenner flapping around in an owl outfit on TV- just terrific. It's absolutely disgusting that that wins women of the year. I mean, if you're going to have a man saying it's a woman winning a thing of the year, can they at least look like a good-looking woman or something? I mean, it's just all about an assault on humanity, an assault on our children, our women, our men, our boys, our girls, what we are, by this scientific mad scientist takeover that wants us to accept all these horrors of human-animal hybrids. Well, they first got you to get you to accept Caitlyn Jenner, who looks like an old evil snapping turtle with a big wig on or dragling storytime with convicted pedophiles all over the country, In many cases dressed up like it the clown- scarier than it, the clown. I expected to be hiding in a drainage ditch somewhere. you know when, little kids out there playing with their paper boat and you go, set your kids on the altar of their swollen crotches. We have all the videos of this. That is a ritual, ladies and gentlemen, To make you praise it, to make you be part of the in-group, because you'll praise something you know is a fraud like: oh, you're twice as likely to get sick or die from the vaccine. that's the federal government's own numbers, But CNN says it's safe and effective. That's gaslighting. So here is the banned video from YouTube. And I'd love to take the credit and say: oh, the most banned guy on the Internet, Alex Jones. the reason he got the strike? No, it's specifically for the skit they did that I was part of. I'm just not going to take the credit here because I don't get the credit. Here is a piece of that. We'll come back with the man, Stephen Crowder. Here's another story that's going on. We were ready for the story, right? Yep, Quarter, Black Garrett, Awesome. Okay, Are we ready, though? I don't know that I'm ever ready. I don't know that we want to be ready. But the Women's Liberation Front- I already hate this. The worst Reported: at least one woman at the Central California Women's Facility was pregnant after a male, transgender male prisoner was transferred there. Keep in mind: the male prisoner was permitted to transfer under the new California law, SB 132,, which allows biological males. We're not supposed to use the term biological males now. We're supposed to use a person with penis or something. Yes, No, it's something else. male Lady MacBulls- Yes, Seeding person. Yes, Seeding person. Is that what I said? No, I just made that up, But I had read at Vox that it's hateful to say biological males, So I don't know. They're a different term. Like Latinx, Go say that to the Latin king, See how it turns out. Yeah, Let us know what the term is. Sooner or later, someone's getting nine teardrop tattoos. They just look like pieros. I used to call them dead. So under SB 132,, it allows biological males to use women's locker rooms, homeless shelters and prisons, to the point that now condoms have been issued within the prison. What? Yeah, this is part of the protocol to ensure that sex between inmates- which is illegal, by the way- would be safe. So they need to make sure that it's safe sex in an all females prison where they cannot get pregnant. And so all women condoms, Pregnancy, Immaculate conception- Do not be afraid. For behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which will be to all people, For there is born to you a baby in this cell, And this shall be a sign unto you all. A virgin birth, A miracle. No, Your cellmate. that guy dresses a woman. He's going to rape you. I'm a girl, Repeatedly. That read rough on the paper. It really did. And who could have seen this coming? Good old Alex Jones. He did a great job. I don't apologize for it. I see a whole conner remake where prisoners just try to get swapped over to the women's prison. We're not trying to get free. Is Alex Jones a net remake? I want to watch it. I would absolutely do a woman's jail. instead They'll recast Nicholas Cage as the new Nicholas Cage with the hair transplant, The drunk one. Yeah, I'm still crazy. I'm still on the plane, but I have more hair, All right. The funniest show on the internet and TV, The good old Steven Crowder coming up on the other side. Stay with us. Hey, everybody Confused about staying healthy in a crazy COVID culture- Me too. But listen, after all the research, all the conflicting studies, after all the squabbling, there's one thing almost everyone agrees on. It's that immune system health can literally be the difference between life and death. You probably already believe that I certainly do So. here's the thing: I wanted: to get past the craziness and find out which plant-based substances actually have studies that demonstrate some efficacy in immune support. Now you'll have to sign a waiver, but you can check out what I've discovered at StrongerDefensecom. No cures or treatments there. Instead, little-known but shocking immune system research and a breakthrough immune support product based on that research called Immune10x. In the best part, you can go to the StrongerDefense website right now and claim your own supply of Immune10x without paying anything today. Crazy right. Learn more about this unusual limited time offer at StrongerDefensecom. That's StrongerDefensecom. Welcome to StrongerDefensecom. Welcome to StrongerDefensecom. Welcome to StrongerDefensecom. Welcome to StrongerDefensecom. Welcome to StrongerDefensecom. Welcome to StrongerDefensecom. Welcome to StrongerDefensecom. Welcome to StrongerDefensecom. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we've got him. He is the evil Stephen Crowder, censored, ladies and gentlemen, by YouTube yet again for daring to talk about that third rail. that is untouchable, that most protected of all groups, men that are basically taking over women's spaces. And Dave Chappelle dared to say that it's like white guys were in black space pretending to be black. Well, that's what it's like: having men saying they're women. So joining us is Stephen Crowder with, of course, his super hit show. that's basically everywhere you can find it, And I was really honored to be on with him a few weeks ago in studio up by Dallas. So, Stephen, great to have you on. Well, you're the reason that I'm gone, So I guess I'm thanking you. That sketch was- I don't apologize for it- I think it was hysterical And I think you know, looking back, I don't know if I would have had you playing Gabriel. That seems to have gotten us into some hot water. Well, absolutely. I mean, my family love it, The listeners love it, The viewers love it. Thanks for letting us play it. Why do you think that upset them so badly? Well, here's the interesting thing, Alex, is there's a carve out on YouTube for comedy. to be clear, There is a carve out for comedy as far as protective speech. So this, obviously, I think Alex Jones playing the angel Gabriel letting Mary know in a cell that it won't be a virgin birth but a trans jet. Look, I don't even need to finish the premise, and it's very clearly meant to be a joke. Not only that, Alex, you were here. You know that on that show, the whole joke was we were tiptoeing around the fact that we couldn't even acknowledge the differences between biological men, who identifies women versus women, And that's the premise for an immaculate conception. So the whole joke is a not joke that we can't actually make the joke. And the interesting thing, Alex, is I don't know if you guys have the overlays from this, but the lawyer from YouTube- and I said this yesterday I find some solace in the fact that they're very expensive hourly attorney- sent a letter specifying what infraction we committed And coincidentally it happened to go up immediately, just hours after we did an entire show on the Loudoun County situation. you know the transgender, the boy- sorry, the bisexual boy in a skirt who raped multiple girls in Loudoun County. We got the notification, or, sorry, the letter, from the lawyer immediately afterward, But in there they said: you cannot, and of course, insert here: incite violence, commit hate speech. But then it said: or indicate that transgender individuals may pose a rape threat to women. That language encompasses everything on the topic of bathroom bills, That language just to be clear. what's so concerning to me is there were 100 parents right at Loudoun County who were protesting the school board because this young girl was raped by a bisexual boy in a skirt, I don't really know what gender they consider. that That's how it was reported. But parents wanted to protest in general saying: well, we are opposed to this. Why are you opposed to this? Parents at a town hall, parents at a PTA meeting, we think that letting biological boys or girls with penises, as you guys call, we think that letting them into the girls' rooms could be a potential rape risk? Boom, banned. You can say it in the real town square, but you can't say it in the digital one. And that is unprecedented what we're experiencing here. Well, I mean, actually the father went to protest about the reported rape of his daughter by the man in the skirt and they did arrest him, They did put him in handcuffs And so really, this is out of control. And then we learned he'd been transferred to another school where another rape reportedly happened, And then Yahoo News tried to say it didn't exist but later had to admit: okay, there are two police reports, there have been a arrest, And so, just like the guy out at the spa in LA, the Asian spa, who went into the hot tub with the grandma, the mother and the nine-year-old girl and, you know, talked about sex, turned out he was a convicted sex offender. And to be clear. I want to be really clear about something here. I have never, ever said that all transgender people are rapists. I've never even said, and wouldn't say, that most transgender people are racist. Why? Because I don't believe it. Now I think some are, and I think some even heterosexual males who are predators will use it as a guise to commit acts of sexual assault. I don't care how someone actually identifies. I care about mitigating the risk of sexual assault in female-only spaces. That's the concern here. and people try to say that it's anti-trans. Now, look, we're at a certain point where it's pro-women. That's really what we're talking about and this is incredibly concerning. I mean, keep in mind, that guy was vilified. We're talking about the dad whose daughter was raped. okay, Let's be really clear about this. The daughter was raped. Let's put this in context. everybody- The FBI, DOJ- wants to investigate parents for complaining at town hall meetings. Okay, I want you to put yourself in this guy's shoes. Your daughter's raped. They went, by the way, confirmed by a rape test kit. This isn't just a me-too-bad-date thing. People can look it up. okay, Your daughter's raped. The school board does nothing. You think you do a little bit more than protest angrily. Come on, guys, This is just people trying to sit and judge. When we talk about not being judgmental, how about we put ourselves in the shoes of that dad? You guys are going to judge him as though he's a threat to society because he got unruly, because his daughter was raped. We have entire films that use that as the premise for us to get on board with the good guy. It was called Death Wish. So it's just amazing to me that we try and act as though both sides of this equation- No, not both sides of this equation- One side- a father's daughter was raped by something that was preventable. The school did nothing about it, They didn't want to acknowledge it. And this is what they always do, right? They say, well, hold on a second, You can acknowledge specific instances of a sexual assault where it's happened. and then they say, but it's never happened, Just like I said at the school board. well, you can't make any broad generalizations, which is what would be required to oppose this policy before it happens, right? And they say: but you're allowed to cite specific examples and individuals. and then you go to the school board and say, okay, what about this? They said that never happened. That's the issue that we're talking about. When you talk about the California state prison system, you say, okay, what about these pregnancies? Well, that never happened. We don't have evidence that it was from a transgender individual. We just know a woman got pregnant in prison. Oh, okay, All right. Well, I thought we were following the science. So my mistake. Well, I know this. We're playing a clip from the famous Alfred Hitchcock film Psycho, with Norman Bates dressed as his mother, who had dead stuff in the basement with cabbage leaves, And so all I'm saying is we've known throughout culture and history that a lot of crazy people, both in fiction and nonfiction, like to dress up as women. Also, a lot of pedophiles like to dress up as women to trick children into their white raper vans. I mean, this has all come out. So there's this leftist Hollywood fetish with men dressing up like women, coming after women and children, And there is a certain percentage of predators that want to be able to hide in restrooms and, when women come in, rape them, and it's happening all over the world, And so the fact that that's happening is real and the left is trying to cover it up. Well, let's also be clear about something with the rules, There are also plenty of men who dress up like women, who don't identify as women. I mean, think of Hoover, right, There are plenty of men who have done this in the past. And the issue here now is it's kind of difficult to tell honestly for someone, a layman, to go: OK, this person is simply a man who just like a cross-dresser, but this person is transgender. This person is transsexual. because most transgender individuals don't go through with the bottom surgery. A lot of them don't go through with the top surgery. They simply dress and identify as women, But it would be considered grossly offensive to imply that they are a cross-dresser or transvestite, which at one point was just sort of something that people did. So the issue here is really it's the elimination of gender lines, the elimination of this idea that men and women are fundamentally different, The idea that children do best, ideally, in a household with a mother and a father. And I want to be clear about this too. I think, look, when you're talking about a group of transgender individuals who have a 40-plus attempted suicide rate between 41 and 42, and then it's about the same thing post-op- I do think that there needs to be compassion for these groups of people, Absolutely, Because no other group has an attempted suicide rate. American slaves didn't have a 41 to 42-percent attempted suicide rate, which tells me again. I think some transgender individuals are treated horribly- and I would never do that- But they're not, as a whole, treated worse than American slaves, which may suggest there's something internally that we can help with. Absolutely. Stay right there. Steven Crowder is trying to help people. so am I. I'm not enemies with men that are confused, but there are predators posing as women and the left is defending it. Why are they defending it? How do we stop this nightmare? Where is all this? going Straight ahead with Steven Crowder, who I don't hear saying hate. I hear him saying truth, and that's why they want to silence him, because they want to silence all of us. We'll be right back. The globalists are bombarding us with propaganda and with spiritual warfare and with poisons and chemicals added to the food. it's all come out, And they're doing that not because we're weak, but because we're made the image of God, the Creator, and we are powerful, And the social engineers fear that so much. So that's why I repeat that famous Internet saying that nobody knows who first came up with the boy. is it true? The propaganda would not be necessary if the situation was hopeless. They need all their propaganda and all their lies and all their evil and all their cultural death because they know we are strong And they know in the end they signed on to the God of this world who is a loser. And that's why it's so important that everybody keep in full wars in the air now more than ever, Because, even if you don't believe in God, what the globalists are manifesting and setting up is satanic And we are opposing the one world government and the mark of the beast they just announced. One of the most studied and researched areas of human health and physiology is inflammation. It's associated with cancer. it's associated with joint problems, it's associated with viral infections, bacterial infections, it's associated with death. And out of all the incredible compounds that God gave us through nature that fights inflammation and makes our lives better, turmeric is chief amongst them all. And chief amongst all the turmeric products out there is body's ultimate turmeric formula. My wife loves turmeric. she has joint pain, but she has to take a lot of it- the type of stuff she buys at the grocery store- for it to work. She started taking this and said: I only need to take one pill instead of four. Why is it so good? It's not just turmeric, it's concentrated with the proprietary process. It's back in stock and for being sold out almost five months at infowarstorecom for 40% off. But supplies are going to sell out quick because of supply chain breakdowns and because we will not lower the quality of this product. And body's is one of our best selling products because it really does work and people love it. Get yours today at infowarstorecom. Our leading competitor has a 75% humanoid level. This is a special proprietary concentrate. It is so good for information, for your immune system, as an antioxidant for your whole body. It's documented. it's amazing. Everybody knows that turmeric is an incredible thing that God created. And body's is the strongest and best You're going to find. and it's back in stock and it funds the infowar 40% off for a limited time and it goes back to regular price right now at infowarstorecom We're running this special for one week. Jacob in Ohio, welcome, go ahead. Hey, how's it going, Alex? Good, Great, last caller. I just wanted to start with plugging your sleep supplements. It's basically the only way I get to sleep anymore. with all the gaslighting, moralization and absurdity, It's like we're living in a twilight zone. Alright, Eric's in New Hampshire. Eric, thanks for calling. go ahead, Hey Alex. thanks for taking my call. If I could, I just want to throw a quick plug out for one of the products. The X2 does wonders. They recommend it to everybody here on the fence about it. Get off the fence, get the product, support the infowar. Tyler in Maine. you're on the air. Thanks for rolling. go ahead, Hey Alex. it's great to be on with you. It's an honor, Honored, to talk to you. Awesome. So first thing I wanted to do was say I love the products. Alpha Power, even at 29,. if you ask my better half, she loves it. Alright, it helps in the bedroom. So just number one for a few of you. It definitely works. It's not a joke, Absolutely. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the Alex Jones show And I'm really honored that you've joined us on this October 19th 2021 transmission. We've got Steven Crowder on, who is being mean to women. He's a bully, He gangs up on girls And he's- he did a piece criticizing biological men, women in presence, getting other women pregnant. We know it: All it takes is two women to have a baby, And so you were finishing up with the fact that, societally, what are we going to do about this? Because, yeah, other men that have a proclivity to feel like they're women and some are. I'm aphroditic and so, okay, you're a woman, Fine, I don't hate you, I'm not attacking you. That's my genuine feelings as well, But what are they going to do about all the predators that are basically in charge of their movement? This is, this, is this is going to cause quite an explosion. I think it already is. Yeah, And there's, by the way, there's a big rift in the feminist movement, The women's, I think, liberation front. Lear Keith, who I had on the show maybe seven years ago because she was a former vegan, I believe, is at work with this. So there are feminists now who are reaching out and saying: you know what? I disagree with a lot of the things that you've said in the past, but I, I understand it. Look, you know, this is something that I. what I think is important for people to note is it's- I'm sorry, it's the fault of suburban white women. I blame you. People don't understand this. When you talk about transgender individuals in sports, for example, okay, biological men going into women's sports, most women support it. Most men oppose it. Time and time again, even though we don't have a dog in the fight. Now, the reason we oppose it is not because we hate transgender individuals. It's for the same reason that we don't want to see men beating up on women. It's quite that simple. So, look, let's just look at it this way. Let's remove the label when we're talking about the bathroom situation of transgender, whatever it is, it's just okay. let's say: I'm a sexual predator, right, and I'm attracted to women. Let's just assume that for a second. And I could be a straight white male, or I could be a male to female, transgender, lesbian, slash. your guess is as good as mine. Let's just not get too, let's not get too nerdy on the math here. What's the best way to remove opportunity of getting vulnerable women alone is making sure we protect some women only spaces. That's it. That's all it is. And if you're pro women, you have to understand where people are coming from with that. Let's stop calling the insinuation that having women only spaces should all. So let's use the term no penis spaces, Is that okay? Can we use that? Can I say that on radio? I can say penis, right, Because it's medically No penis spaces, That's it. I am pro everyone and pro no penises in women's only spaces. It's a penis free space. I mean, now the colleges have white free spaces where no whites are allowed to go, or people you know need these bastions. Can't women have no penis spaces Like women have? You would think women have gyms that are just for women- And I get that- so they can go, be left alone and not to worry how they look. for men, and men have their own gyms. There's nothing wrong with that- Actually, I haven't. The truth is, I don't think there are many. I don't think there are many male only gyms. Those just are gay nightclubs, So it's very, very rare. because I've looked for them, because the truth is now, if you go to men- and I actually think it's a good idea- like curves, I understand it, because women feel vulnerable, right, They feel self conscious. I'm actually pro curves And sometimes I would like a male only gym where it doesn't scare women if you drop a barbell, That's all. I think that it should go well, I totally agree. I mean, exactly That's why guys go out to the deer camp so they can drink whiskey, chew tobacco and cuss. I do know three of those things, but I like to paint with watercolors. So I think I understand where you're coming from. Exactly Yeah, We're both equally manly, is my point, Alex? No, look, and this is the elimination of. to give you an example, You know Dave Rubin is someone who have had my show. People know Dave Rubin is a gay sort of libertarian And I spoke with him a long time ago about gay marriage And he was very surprised because when I met Dave I gave him a big hug And I really do. He's just a really nice guy And I do. I genuinely love Dave Rubin. I try and reflect the love that Christ has given to me, because I don't deserve it. And you're having a baby when he's six months pregnant, right, Yes, And we plan on chest feeding. just to be clear. No simulac for us. I don't trust what they put in there, Lead or something. You saw a blood judge and his husband in the bed of the maternity ward. I know, I know, And I just had twins. So believe me, I know too much. Here's the best part: He took two months off and no one even noticed. So that just tells you how useless most roles are in government. But here's the deal. What's funny to me to go on down this path? okay, Because Tucker Carlson said something about breastfeeding. And then he responded, Pete Buttgig, very snippily on CNN saying: I guess Tucker hasn't heard of bottle feeding. No, no, no, We wouldn't assume that all men bottle feed, because you have told us that men can breastfeed too. We just showed a video of that today on the show of transgender men breastfeeding. So this is the problem now is the left can't even agree to their own premises. Pete Buttigieg is trying to say: of course we know men can't breastfeed. Well, guess what? Fox and Buzzfeed and CNN and NBC say that some men can breastfeed, And AOC says that the cauliflower is racist because it's white. That's not a joke, By the way, folks. we missed that. seriously, though, pulling back from that. Did she actually say that? Did she actually say that? Yeah, she said we shouldn't be growing at the inner city gardens cauliflower. That's a white food. Oh well, she was looking at a cross side, so she probably didn't know what she was talking about Exactly. And she also said the world's ending in 2030.. Yeah, Well, look, here's the thing. AOC is an idiot, And I don't want to just use ad hominem, but read the Green New Deal. You can read it more quickly than the pan flip. They give you a discount tire and I think you kind of understand everything you need to know if she actually said that this is the first time hearing about it. Cauliflower, you know what? cauliflower is one of those things that should bridge all racial divide. Yes, also heroin, by the way. heroin is one thing that white people and black people do equally. You have certain drugs that are bigger, Certain areas where you had the crack epidemic, which was largely African-American, A lot of the capitol floggers remember a few years ago they were saying milk is racist because it's white. but pulling back from the Stephen Crowder, let's get back to the transgenderism. I played for TV viewers- You obviously couldn't see it- the American psycho or psycho clip from Alfred Hitchcock of the man dressed up as the woman going around killing people. But what about, even in silence of the lambs, where it's a transgender that's got the woman down in the pit trying to get her to put lotion on the skin? Why do we art typally and just think of a man dressed up as a woman as kind of a psycho? Because we've actually seen that in the real world. That's why art's imitating life. What do you think about that phenomenon? I don't know about that phenomenon. I know that we've seen it in films and obviously the trans community opposes it. but I also think that the reason why it's been portrayed that way- I will say historically, for example- let's just let people make their own judgments- I will say the reason why black people were portrayed a certain way may have been because of racism at these points in history. but I will say this: The reason why a lot of serial killers were portrayed that way, or villains, is because it's seen as abnormal. What do you mean? Atypical, against the norm, Rare. That's why a man dressing up as a woman is rare and it was seen as abnormal. And there's a big push right now to not only make sure that that is seen as the exact same as a biological woman, but so is a man breastfeeding a child. And you know what Science really does matter. When people say follow the science, while we're talking about vaccines, for example, when people say follow the science, by that what they mean is fouching. I don't want to get into that. I'm not a doctor. I think people have the right to make their own decisions. What really does matter is they say: follow the science. Okay, when it comes to the idea of men chestfeeding- the term they use. how about you follow? are we going to follow the science here? Because if you do that, the child will die. It doesn't matter how you feel, You chestfeed, you breastfeed, you're a man, you're a baby. the baby's going to die. That's the science. So at what point? just like with fouching and AIDS, people don't know this. I'm sure your audience does, obviously, Alex. but the right to try- this term that people talk about, that came to popularity under Fauci with gay men who had AIDS And, for example, there's Dallas Buyers Club where they wanted to be able to use off-label medications And Fauci blocked it and made them take AZT. that killed them. And they wanted the right to try Things like basic immunosuppressants, anabolic steroids for wasting diseases, marijuana for appetite, right. And Fauci said no AZT. and they said we just want the right to try. That's a good deal. Back then Fauci- and this is political correctness- wanted to make sure that he didn't hurt any gay men's feelings. right, He said there is no connection between the homosexual lifestyle and the outbreak of AIDS. He said one in five heterosexual couples would be affected by AIDS before 1995, I believe. So Fauci, in the name of science, wanted to avoid hurting gay men's feelings. I don't want more gay men to die. You guys determine who's the bad guy. Well, you're absolutely right. but if you pull back with Fauci, it's worse than that. They knew there were all those treatments. That's why Magic Johnson sort of taken AZT, felt sick and he said: I'm done. he's still alive today. Everybody else took the AZT that Fauci brought back, just like, By the way. by the way, Magic Johnson, straight as an arrow. Well, I'm not sure about that, but who knows? I mean, I know this: black people can get HIV a lot easier than white people, according to studies, because of the receptor science. Let's just move on, Alex, I will just. That's the science, straight as an arrow. Okay, we're going to go to break with Stephen Crowder. one more little segment with him and then he's literally going to a Bible study And he's got an amazing wife and two great twins and has one of the funniest shows in the world that I'm very, very envious of. I mean seriously, folks, you do an hour and a half live, four weeks a day. no, no, four weeks a day, four days a week, and it's really super funny because he hardly ever messes up like I just did. It's live, That's pretty amazing. So I'm a big fan of the Stephen Crowder show. We'll be right back on the other side in two minutes, And chief amongst their physical attacks is keeping us from high quality vitamins and minerals that are essential for life on this planet, And so the information we cover exposes their evil works and sabotages their globalist takeover, and we're having an incredible effect thanks to your support and your word of mouth. But it's also important to take care of our bodies themselves, with high quality water filtration at infoworkstorecom And with amazing supplements, many of which that just came back in stock, like Body's Ultimate Turmeric Formula, now 40% off for a limited time at infoworkstorecom. So let's fight the info war, but also take care of our bodies. We've been unable to get it, but we finally got a shipment in and it's 40% off. It is the secret weapon when it comes to your immune system, when it comes to antioxidants, when it comes to your joints, when it comes to your whole body. People absolutely love Body's Ultimate Turmeric Formula: incredible amounts of 5-star reviews at infoworkstorecom And it's back in stock at infoworkstorecom- and it funds the info war. a true 360 win: Body's Ultimate Turmeric Formula- back in stock at infowarstorecom for a limited time. You're listening to the Alex Jones Show. Well, it's the final segment with Steven Crowder, one of the busiest guys in the fight for liberty out there, And he's constantly in the news every day, and I'm a fan. I listen almost every day, so does my son, so does my oldest daughter. Country music legend Travis Tritt boycotts any venue or promoter, mandating mass, requiring vaccinations or pushing COVID testing. and I'm reading the article like 5 am this morning when I woke up on infowarscom and I go, wait a minute, that's Steven Crowder. I didn't watch on Monday. I missed that damn, And so here's a clip of what he had to say. you know big deal getting the Country Music Star on, but Travis Tritt is really alive, has a lot of courage, and just the whole interview that I ended up watching this morning, Tom, I didn't have it, I watched. it was amazing. here it's part of it. You gave the statement not too long ago about how important our freedoms and our liberties are. I'm kind of surprised that you would think it wouldn't be that big of a risk in the country music community Sometimes. I'm surprised that some of the ass-kissing that seemed to take place in the country community to the media elites- because what you said, a lot of people supported it. a lot of people didn't. I'm sure I'm not giving you any news. Can you tell people who missed it and why you felt you wanted to speak out about this? Well, basically, when Eric Clapton made the statement about the freedoms being fringed upon, that really resonated with me and I basically agreed with him across the board, aside from the personal effects that he had had from getting the vaccine. but I just agreed just from a philosophical standpoint, about we have to preserve our freedoms. We've never been in a situation that I know of in this country where the government has been allowed to force you to take medicine that you may or may not need. And the whole interview is amazing and what he said to the Daily Wire is powerful. I mean it's great to see all these people that have politically not been too active really being now forced to come out and being so eloquent. So I'm just, you know, so much support to what Travis Tritt did. Yeah, and, by the way, I'm sorry I had some audio problems. Can you guys all hear me now? Yes, sir, we can hear you. Okay, good, You know what, Alex, I got to tell you. this is the first. I mean it kind of breaks my heart that Rolling Stone, I guess, went after Travis Tritt, Because this is something- and you know my heart and people know this- like I've talked about how you and I disagree a lot and we agree on a whole lot too, and you know that after the YouTube, the deep platforming, I probably didn't agree with you on as much as some people who I felt abandoned you, people who didn't stand for you. I just thought like, oh my gosh, if you tell me that I can't have someone on, I have to have them on and did it right away. But one thing that I always try and be really careful of- and I actually have a reputation in this industry: I don't ever appear at organization events like nonprofits. I don't do CPAC anymore. I used to host it. I did it for four years. I don't do any of that anymore because I never want someone else to be on the hook for what I say And I also don't want to be on the hook for what someone else says. I speak for myself And I really with that interview because Travis Tritt isn't inherently a political guy and I'm a huge fan. I mean, Great Day to Be Alive is one of my all-time favorite songs. It's my first song on my playlist on vacation. I thought he was misrepresented before he appeared on my show and wanted to give him the opportunity to make sure it was crystal clear. And everything that he said was reasonable, was loving, and it just breaks my heart that Rolling Stone is distorting it. There's nothing that Travis Tritt said that anyone could disagree with. He didn't say don't take the vaccine. He didn't say Bill Gates is using it as a mind control chemical agent. He just talked about not being comfortable with forcing attendees to his show, who may or may not be able to get this medicine, having them barred from his live performances. And now he's getting attacked. but that's a badge of honor to be attacked. If you're not being attacked now, you're not doing something right. Yeah, But you know what? I guess it's just because I know what a And this is the first time I've met him And, by the way, for people who don't know, he has appeared on other episodes of the show and sketches. kind of like yourself too. It's sort of like a Dean Martin variety hour in this in that sense We'll have these celebrities appear in sketches. It's one of the funniest things Alex said I'd ever done: having you be the angel, Gabriel. I still laugh about it. But I will say this: it really does And honestly, it breaks my heart because he's such a sweet man and he was. Anyway, you know what? the only thing I can do is encourage people to watch the full interview, because I never want. Look, if someone says something, obviously there's accountability. When people say there's no cancel culture, there's accountability culture. No, no, no, no, no, no. There is a difference, because everyone should be accountable. No, you're right, Steven Crowder, we're out of time. Come back again soon. Thank you so much. I am taping this update on the morning of Tuesday, October 19th 2021 to let all of our great radio and TV listeners know that Body's Ultimate Turmeric Formula that's been sold out for a long time is back in stock with a 95% humanoid level. that's so good for inflammation and more for 40% off for a limited time that it goes back to regular price in one week. That's Body's Ultimate Turmeric Formula back in stock. 40% off for a limited time at m4shorecom. And Vaso Beats is selling out fast. so good for your heart, your lungs. The cardiovascular system creates nitrous oxide in the blood. It's a really strong concentrate as well. It's 50% off. Crill oil is selling out fast: 40% off. Oh my God, you think fish oil is good? This is amazing. Crill oil, DNA Force Plus- I've extended that for a few more days. 40% off. back in stock. Amazing Down and out: 50% off. It's got eight different natural compounds for deeper, cleaner sleep. It's available at m4shorecom. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now into hour number two And I have got so much just amazing news and interesting information to cover And I have a real frustration here on air that I'll just vent with all of you. I usually host three hours. Sometimes I host four hours of the show. I do things different than other people. I have a three-hour syndicated show but sometimes I do a fourth hour And so we have guest hosts through the fourth hour, just in case something big breaks And because the people I have on that do the fourth hour are people I like and I think are interesting and I think are informative. So I usually end up eating my lunch and taking care of research in that hour after the show. So I like to watch and listen to the show just like you do. just I don't like to watch and listen to Alex Jones. I mean, sometimes I think I'm interesting in things, but I'm not the biggest Alex Jones viewer or listener. I don't read interviews- I'm in. I don't watch films- I'm in. I don't watch documentaries- I'm in, unless I absolutely have to. It's just something that's a little old. But I am very, very thankful that you tune in and that you put up with me. But, believe me, I'm the guy that needs to be critiqued. I'm the guy that has this giant audience of amazing people like you that are awake, that the globalist fear. So I am extremely honored to be here And I'll just be completely honest with you. It's this weird phenomenon that after I've read something a couple of times, it's exciting while I'm reading it at 1 am at my house, or at 4 pm in my office, or at 9 pm at night, But then when it's the next day and I've got all the documents in front of me, it's not that it's not exciting anymore, It's like: oh my God, it took me two hours to read that. How am I going to do this justice? And that's the frustration. Is there so much going on, so much happening that if I just mention a few of these things here, I mean hours and hours of research and don't get it exactly right? I'm almost doing a disservice by conditioning people to all this evil. Because if you don't get conscious and drill into it and really grasp it and really fundamentally change and commit to fight this and commit to become aware of it at a cellular level, this broadcast actually does bad, It actually causes harm. Now, overall, the broadcast causes a lot of positive things to happen And the globalists were arrogant a long time ago and a few times I've talked to some of them They said: hey, don't worry, we think the public are scum and we think when you tell them all this stuff, it'll just demoralize them or scare them or condition them not to fight back and give up. Well, I think we've proven that populism and nationalism and through God's power and through surrendering to God- that's a daily process- that we can transcend Satan and the New World Order. We better or we're all going to be destroyed, And we see that now that we're coming to the end of the line. So let me just try to give you an example, And a lot of times I do this at the start of the show And I don't think in all the years I've been on air I've actually ever gotten even through one or two of the stacks of just reading the headlines. But let me just give you an example of some of the stuff I've got here in my stack. Country music legend Travis Tritt boycotts any venue or promoter. mandating masks requiring vaccinations are pushing COVID testing. I read this early in the morning. The transcript is incredible. I went and watched like 30 minutes of the interview and I was like this guy's incredibly well-spoken. I mean I wish I was that well-spoken. I'm like wow, thank God they forced people like this who are smart and talented, off the bench- And I'm not saying he was being lazy, but off the bench- into the political arena and that's what should scare the globalist. I could read what he said and play what he said on Crowder for the rest of this hour and that would be a really important hour of radio. That's one piece of gold out of hundreds. Here's another one right here: OK, Shock, FDA delays Moderna Vax for adolescent sighting concerns of microcarditis risk and heart attacks. and it's not rare, it's prominent and it's serious. That's in Reuters, That's in the Gateway Pundit, That is a whole three-hour show taking calls. How are they going to approve something that they admit in the public testing where they bypass regular trials, that's causing massive heart attacks worldwide. And, by the way, Moderna and Pfizer are banned in over 100 countries as of six months ago plus, and then, continuing through that, there's new countries banning it every week because it causes damn heart attacks. And what did all the top scientists say? I mean literally. we quoted dozens of them last year saying it's going to cause microcarditis. Oh, but don't listen to Wolfgang Wudar, Don't listen to Dr Yedon, Don't listen to all of them. How about the CDC in October with their secret report that got leaked, that they later put on their website and admitted that list of adverse reactions they were predicting was microcarditis and a bunch of other stuff, including one disorder where your platelets all disappear and you bleed to death. And you know, I've got some family that I've been close to in the past, but they're liberals and they don't really talk to me anymore And I remember thinking, man, I wonder if they're all going to take the double jab, How long they'll be alive? Sure enough, one of them got double jab, dying right now of liquefying the platelets, And it's right there. I played a clip of Dr Merritt talking about it last hour. I mean, this is serious business. Serious business takes the shots a few months later going to hospice to die, Very, very sad, and pray for them. So people just can't believe this is happening. So they double down and oh, oh, oh. the two Pfizer shots, don't worry, The two Moderna shots, don't worry, They take another one. Here's another article I just covered: two French clergy sexually abused over 200,000 children and the government covered it up- Reuters. It's a lot worse than that. Oh, and then this article on the New York Post: see how they tie together Biden's secretly flying underage migrants into New York in dead of night. And there's all these videos and photos of kids that look as young as seven years old. and it said, oh, just any charity wants them gets them. And then I flashed back to four or five months ago. We're down in McAllen and they're giving children as young as five years old to men in vans without their mothers. And a guy walks over and goes: why are you guys against this? We've got cameras on. He goes. I'm here to take him to Pennsylvania, Show him the way of the Lord. He's going, the Lord, what's wrong with these kids? Nobody wants these kids, these women. I'm going to show these women the way of the Lord. I'm going to take women with me that don't have no children, that don't have no husband. We had an undercover cop win in and a woman was telling us what was happening. She comes out, he follows her out and says: what are you doing? Then women and children need me to teach them the way of the Lord. They load them in vans. I mean, folks, this is not a movie, This is not Netflix, This is the real world- unaccompanied children. And then they just load them into vans with the creepiest looking dudes I've ever seen. And we had the undercover cop inside off and on for a day. She would go into the charity and talk to them in Spanish And she's older and stuff, So it didn't quite look like a cop or whatever. She's got her badge and all that stuff under her purse And she goes in there and she's sitting there talking to them. She goes: yeah, they're talking about how I want this woman, I want that woman, I want those kids. I don't want them with any men or boys. I'm going to teach them, I'm going to put them to work, I'm going to learn them And I'm not trying to talk like a hillbilly, but they got weird hillbillies in Pennsylvania. This guy's like- you saw the video. He's like he walks that morning. He looks at something down What's wrong? I'm trying to get women for me. I'm taking them to Pennsylvania for me to work from the Lord And then we confirm: No paperwork, no, nothing. He's inside going. I paid good monies. You said: bring down here, I'll get women. I'm here with women, I'm here with the Lord. I mean you know, I mean, just okay, that's just one more article. I mean everyone of them just is horrible. Oh, you think they just got 200,000 slave kids in France or 30,000 per major city in Germany. Folks, their religion is raping and then murdering children. I'm not saying that guy come out of the place as a pedophile or he does that. I'm sure he's a wonderful guy. Just, if I was casting someone in a movie, you know, like a Rob Zombie new movie, House with Thousand Corpse or something, I mean you know the people they cast are not scary at all. I'd go down to where the people get these kids. I don't know why, but every one of them is the most scary, damn looking person I've ever seen. They all look scarier than Brian Stelter. They look scarier than Governor Newsom. I mean, my God, if I was walking down the street I'd say that's a child molester, probably a killer. You know you'll be pumping and gasping. You see, black, white doesn't matter, You go. that person's a hardened criminal. They're not trying to act like they're a criminal, You just get the aura. That's a person that'll hog, tally you while they rape your wife and then blow your head off. I'm here with women, No men with them. Show them the Lord. Why are you here to stop me? Who are you? I just nobody wants these women anyways. Nobody want to make them work. Your voice counts. When you share information, be it over the internet or in person. it changes the world. The globalists know their agenda is unpopular. They know you're angry. And now to get around big tech, it's more important than ever that we use every tool we've got. Well, ladies and gentlemen, if you sign up for our free news and show alerts, you can then take those alerts, those articles and those live feeds- both the regular shows and special reports- and share them with everyone you know. Take action now by texting the word news, NEWS, to 833-470-0438.. That's 833-470-0438 for Info Wars, Emergency News Alerts. Or text the word show to 833-470-0438 and receive live show notifications. Take action now. rate the chain reaction until others share those texts Or use alerts at 833-470-0438.. Simply go to handgunconversioncom. That's handgunconversioncom. That's handgunconversioncom. So sure you didn't start a fight with Bill Gates. You didn't start a fight with David Rockefeller. You didn't start a fight with the UN. They started a fight with you. And they're not going to back down and they're not going to go away and they're not going to ever stop their attacks until they have the fear of God put into them. But the average person still doesn't even know about the New World Order or about globalism or about corporate fascism. It's not until people understand that and that we're under attack that we have any chance of beating these people. If you only knew the power of the dark side, join Bill Gates and together we will defeat humanity. Then our God will reward us with eternal life. That's basically the ethos of the globalists. They must first play God, They must first prove that they are the fittest in their social Darwinistic system. And in a way they're right. If we let them lie to us and dumb us down and poison us and destroy our children's futures, the evidence is overwhelming and out in the open. We really deserve what's happened to us. So I ask you now: are you going to step up and expose the New World Order even more. I know I'm pledging to step up and redouble my efforts. The front lines of the fight is infowarscom, Clashing the lines and disinformation, Waging war on corruption. I'm looking down on you On laser's trace, Everything you do. You think you got private lives. I'm elemental. My sight is clean. I am perpetual. Let's get into it right now. I've talked about the freak show that is the New World Order And how they're not just going to do things that are ridiculous and go according to madness and go against common sense, But they're going to do things like promoting people that don't have the curricula vitae, who don't have the background and who will also then do whatever they're told. like Pete Buttigieg, He can be gone three months. He can get caught staging photo ops where he says he's riding a bike, but he was really driving in an SUV. He can call for banning cars or green taxes and you know, all the rest is crap. But it's okay because he's gay, Goodness okay. And he can even pose in beds at the hospital saying we just had a baby. And then he can, you know, pose in pools wearing a dress or whatever It's all supposed to be. oh well, look, it doesn't matter if he's selling us out. I mean he's gay. Tim Cook runs the worst death camps in the world. I mean he's gay though. I mean, my God, it's got to be okay Again. black turtledex sweater, you know bug eyes, all of it It's great. Well, don't worry, though, Stop that. drag queen story time: convicted pedophiles, women bringing their children up the altar to put them on their lap and then to roll on them and hump each other. I mean, we got those videos: mainline schools across the country, elementary schools, libraries. Now the drag queen lays there in their clown outfit, their demonic clown outfit. It's always a beast's scary looking dude- And then the women put their children on their waist and the children wallow in a simulated demonic event And they've got like subliminals and blue clues of like human sacrifice to mullet your children. I mean, this is some heavy-duty stuff. So we're already talking about this last hour where this comes from, what this is, But here it is. Imagine if a man- I'm a man- I want to assist your children. Oh no, that's creepy, That's bad. Call the police. I'm dressed up like a woman, like Norman Bates in Psycho. So drum roll, please. this is the Washington Post. This is not a joke, This is not a game. This is not the onion, This is not the Babylon bead. This is real. Rachel Levine, openly transgender health official, to be sworn in as four-star admiral. It's like an escape from New York, where they go down to the basement of the building and he finds a bum that has the president's tracker. He goes, Mr President, Mr President, He looks and goes: yeah, I'm the president. I'm the president, I'm a four-star admiral. How about? how about he's a- oh, she's a- naval aviator. She lands on aircraft carriers. How about she was the first woman to walk on the moon? No, it's not true, but let's just say it. Hell, let's give her Woman of the Year award, Like Caitlyn Jenner was. Or let's give a Nobel Prize to Obama. Or let's give one to Henry Kissinger that launched war crimes everywhere and bragged about it. Hell, let's give Hitler a Southern Property Law Center ADL award. So, Rachel Levine, openly transgender health official, to be sworn in as four-star admiral. Darth Vader literally strangled the last one and said: you are in command now, admiral. There it is, ladies and gentlemen, Can you guys find the psycho clip with audio? I'm going to play some of that here in a moment, Or you know what? I haven't played it yet. I mentioned it to Stephen Crowder. Please cue up the new little meme. Oh, before they fact-check me at Reuters and say Jones played a fake video of Fauci as the transgender psychopath in Silence of the Lambs, with the woman down in the pit saying she rubs the lotion on the skin. This is called a parody, It's called a meme, It's called a joke which they know. But they fact-check even the memes we play and say Jones tried to get a fake video over on Fauci. No, that's fake, That's a joke, This isn't fake. right here, A man saying they're a woman now is an admiral. I mean, it is a fake man, a fake woman. Of course it's totally fake. Not really an admiral, It's just governments, as they begin to collapse like any third world but in a republic, start festooning, you know, four or five, six stars on everybody they can. It's like a dictator in Latin America or something. So a senior, oh senior, oh my God. Mellford Pointy, who made history when she became the nation's highest ranking openly transgender official, is also supposed to become its first openly transgender four-star officer. The administration announced on Tuesday. Rachel Levine, oh, US Secretary for Health will be sworn in Tuesday as an admiral of the US Public Health Service Commission Corps For outreach to your children. I should add A 6,000 person force that responds to health on behalf of the federal government, including administering coronavirus vaccines and delivering care after hurricanes. Levine is also this generation's first ever female four-star admiral. It's the first female four-star admiral. I thought General Milley was the first female four-star admiral. Yes, I know, General Milley wasn't an admiral. I know he was in the Army. It doesn't matter anymore, does it? What you know is he's a sack of garbage. Look at this, Look at this. We're not supposed to laugh at this. I made the joke that, hey, how about just give him the Woman of the Year Award, like they gave Jenner, The male Olympic athlete? But they already did. Look, look, women. don't you feel like you've attained something? You are now a four-star general. Finally, in the 240-year history of the United States- 243 years- We never had a four-star admiral woman. Absolute, Dun-dun-dun, dun-dun-dun, dun-dun-dun. But they're teaching this to children and it's causing total mental illness. So here is the parody of Fauci. It rubs the lotion on its skin, It takes the vaccine into its- oh, creepy. Look at those teeth. That's the general material there, Man, I mean. look, if you were casting somebody for a serial killer, that each children are like a demonic alien from space that hatches out of an egg and starts eating children. I mean central casting. here we come. Here it is, ladies and gentlemen. It puts the needle in its skin. It puts it in whenever it's told I'm a pureblood, I don't want the jab, I won't take the vax. It puts the needle in its skin or else it gets the pink slip. It puts the needle in its skin. You can't make me take it, Please, Please don't. It puts the needle in its skin. It puts the needle in its skin. You know, Fauci stands in front of the mirror and says: I like me, I like me. Oh yeah, Okay, that's just one more story. I literally got hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds. And when we come back, oh, Fauci's got something special for you, A virus that kills 80% of people. he made on record and he's getting ready to release it on you. You can't make me take it. You can't make me take it. Damn it Down and out. liquid sleep support. It's been out of stock for a while. It's one of three sleep aids. We have it infowarstorecom. This one has been very popular. It sold off the shelves. It's back in stock, Down and out. liquid sleep support: This is probably the strongest sleep aid that we have. I would say Knockout, rocket rest. both great Comes in pill form. This is the liquid tincture And I think this is probably the most powerful one. Survival Shield X2, nascent iodine- This is, if you haven't done an iodine challenge yet, have you haven't done the iodine challenge? What are you waiting for? now is the time. Super male and super female vitality, Living Defense Plus and the organic greens fiber caps. We have a limited supply of these right now, but we want to sell them all out so we can order a new batch. It was very popular, The organic greens fiber caps, But we have all kinds of other great supplements that are great for so many different things. Take advantage of those. Frank in North Carolina, thanks for holding so long. Go ahead. Yeah, I just have to face up a man. It seems like every time I turn on your broadcast you're bragging. It just gets old. man, I'm going to shut you down right now. okay, We're taking calls about your nomination, Do you understand? they're having congressional hearings. trying to shut us down, Do you understand? I'm ringing the alarm. If that was happening to anybody else, I'd be freaked out. I mean, what's it going to take us being shut down? Is that what you want, Frank? Yeah, you know what, Alex, I'll put him on pause again. Hey, Frank, do you understand? it's not bragging to say we are the tip of the spear. we're under attack. we need your help. As much begging as I do, we can barely pay the bills and grow in the face of this. I'm not going to just stop growth and let them start pushing us backwards. You understand I need your help, Frank. I need your help, Frank. Go to infowarstorecom right now and help fund the Info World. Do you understand? I need your help, Frank. Free press needs your help, Frank. I'm taking this message on the morning of Tuesday, October 19th 2021, and I've got some great news to report to the listeners. For at least one week, we're going to be able to run a sale with Bobby's ultimate turmeric formula that just got back in stock after being sold out almost five months because of supply chain breakdowns. It has a 95% curcuminoid level. Most of the turmeric supplements have a 5% to 10% curcuminoid level. Our leading competitor has a 75% curcuminoid level. This is a special proprietary concentrate. It is so good for information, for your immune system, as an antioxidant for your whole body. It's documented. it's amazing. Everybody knows that turmeric is an incredible thing that God created and bodies, is the strongest and best You're going to find and it's back in stock. and it funds the Info War: 40% off for a limited time. that goes back to regular price Right now. then FullWarsHorecom running the special for one week. You're listening to the Alex Jones show, Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones, David. Oh, baby, I'm gonna teach you what love's all about tonight. Trust me honey. Trust me honey, everything's gonna be all right. Wow, they say you get majoring universities here and all over the western world and on TV ads in the UK That if you invite a girl out or ask her to go have a cup of coffee or tell her she's pretty, that's a micro rate. But if convicted pedophiles want to come visit your children, in many cases unannounced, at elementary school, that's a good thing. yeah, It's out of control, ladies and gentlemen. yeah, It's not full grown men with full grown women saying, relax, baby, Take it real slow. It's them doing that with your children and they're not saying they're gonna take it real slow, It's about destroying their innocence. All right, let me do this. I've covered a six or seven news articles. I've got hundreds of absolutely over-the-top incredible information here for you and I'm just thinking how entertaining it would be to make fun of Lori Lightfoot. but would that actually save the country or the world? Or it's be entertaining to watch CNN and MSNBC and Media Matters attack Tucker Carlson for supporting Info Wars, Should we? well, that's kind of fun and interesting. but yeah, let's not get into Alice Jones. No, I think we should play sixth graders secretly records teacher peddling critical race theory to class. We're gonna get to that next segment And I think we should cover this right now. And again some of us are gonna say, hey, we're sick of hearing about the COVID. The COVID takeover is the world ID, the forced inoculations, the mass death, the collapse of civilization, the brainwashing of our children. It is the shutdown of the economy for the post-industrial world. great reset. They now admit that. okay, I mean it's like again if Martians showed up with giant spaceships and cut into our TV feeds and said we're gonna blow the planet up in one hour And people said, hey, you didn't pay your month's insurance. I'm like the Martians are gonna blow us up in one hour. We better fight back. I mean, it's everything, So I can sit here and go. oh look, here's the new first woman to be a four-star admiral. Do you know who she is? It's not actually a biological woman that made her way up in the Navy. No, this is the Washington Post with a straight face. It's Rachel Levine, the super creepy dude. I mean, there's no end to this, ladies and gentlemen. And see, now the left's trying to say: if an adult has sex with a child, but the leftist sees themselves as a child, it's not pedophilia. That's where they're going with all this Mind control. And then when they create which they've created, the human oise that are part animal, part human, that don't have any rights. well, now they're gonna endow them with what they don't have any rights. Well, now they're gonna endow them with what they don't have any rights, But they own them and control them. And you better not criticize the real trans zoological creature. So let's do this. I did massive preparation for this over five days, And again, I try to figure out the mental reasons that once I get on air, I don't want to talk about it or get into it. There's like a block, but I don't want to talk about it. I don't want to talk about it. I don't want to talk about it. I don't want to talk about it. I'm gonna do it. I'm gonna do it next hour, I'm gonna do it the start of the next hour. And I know what the mental block is now that I say it. It's that I can't do it justice. I was already working on NATO and their plan to take over the US, and I started talking about it last week And then a caller called in and said: oh, have you seen this which I hadn't seen, which is even worse than what I said? So I spent about 30 minutes this morning trying to read scan over 100-plus pages, And I found so much horrible stuff that I could do five weeks of shows on this. So I mean it's like I'm not a victim. I feel beat up. It's like I've been punched in the stomach about 10 times Because the people that run NATO are the ones kidnapping kids and running everything. I mean that's the top of the pyramid right here, The group that runs NATO. That's the international global script, And this is how they're gonna put chips in your brains, how they own you, how they control you. This is just one thing. This is Science, Technology Trends 2020-2040: exploring the CNT Edge. NATO Science Technology Organization. Now what was I already studying five days ago before we called in about this at Nightmare? It's basically the same thing, but even worse: NATO's plans to hack your brain. Remember that zero hedge article? And I've got the document right here. I'm gonna hit that next hour. I said I'd hit it Friday. I said I'd hit it Saturday. Sunday. Never hit it Saturday. Sunday- never hit it. I'm gonna hit it next hour. And then I'm gonna hit this, Because you wanna know what's really going on. You wanna know what they know and what they don't want you to know. It's right here in this folder And if I spent 20 years on this, it wouldn't be long enough. The Observer Effect and Quantum Physics. Now this is just a tiny little sliver of power. This, in my hand, is the ultimate power in the universe beneath God. This is, in fact, God's will, And we have been given little G, God-like powers, Observed by electron microscopes, spectrometers- you name it- all the systems. And they already knew this theoretically And it's been proven, And that's what they're doing And that's how they're programming your subconscious. I will hit this as well. But I'm gonna do an entire long presentation on this soon And I've been quietly working on this for a while And that's why I've decided you can't just do 20, 30 minutes on this. very soon, And if I work hard and we're on schedule right now, by the mid-December there will be a film, an entire production, on the Observer Effect and Quantum Physics, And I've not talked about this because it's so big and so important. I mean, I've talked about it a lot, I've mentioned it and given you the basics. I know most of you already know about it. But I mean, what does it really mean? This is why there isn't one person that is a controller that believes that there isn't God, or is it demented? They all know The God Particle- Theoretically, you know, cooked up by Max Planck. and then the guy that was certainly smart but took a lot of it and then just popularized it, That's Albert Einstein. But Ms Max Planck's the super genius, Einstein's the genius. Nobody's saying he's a lot of genius, He's freaking smart, I mean autistic mathematician. but Max Planck was the big daddy. 124 years ago he came up with all the theoretic equations for atomic bombs on a chalkboard. Yeah, that guy. So we're going to be talking about that. And I remember being three years old, five years old, 10 years old, being sent for a week during the summers to stay with my grandparents and getting in trouble, sneaking out in the middle of the night to go to the park across the street, my grandmother screaming at me- but they were really sweet, but a little stuff like that. And I remember my grandfather yelling at me in a nice way about quantum mechanics and Max Planck, And I didn't know that he was all into that and went and saw, you know, really select seminars and things that not everybody got into, with these physicists that came after Planck and Werner von Braun and all of it. He was a pretty smart guy But it's funny, all of a sudden he was telling me back then: it just comes to mind and we've been living all of this and not understanding it. So this is basically like discovering the keys to the car that's all juiced up and loaded up with fuel and ready to drive down the road, And it's like a baby finally having the consciousness moment where the baby realizes I am conscious, I am a consciousness, And how much power you've got. So that's coming up today And I'm going to get more into it, and I've already been doing a lot of work on it and a lot of research, and we're shooting and editing and putting all this together right now- And that's just one, as I told you, eight big projects that we got going on simultaneously. That's why I'm working 18 hours a day with extreme enjoyment, because I'm plugged directly into the zeitgeist, and so are you. But you have to first realize that, And once you do well, primary ignition has begun. We'll be right back. I'm Alex Jones, infowarscom- Next Millennium's News. Today. Now you've heard me talk about the BioProse and how they're creating amazing products. They've done it again and have just released an entire suite of bio-remediation products, bringing industrial-level technology to the everyday consumer. They're literally changing the industry with a revolutionary patented delivery system. The BioProse are excited to release Biodrain Pro, a product specifically designed to establish healthy drains, pipes and overall plumbing systems. Biodrain Pro digests grease, fats, oils, sludge, paper and organic matter with ease. It contains no chemicals, no GMOs and is safe for black-gray holding tanks, sewer hoses and plumbing. It is also human and animal safe. Get up to 20 treatments with the scoop for easy applications. Say goodbye to drain problems, gas buildup and odor Guaranteed. Just pour and add water. It's that simple. Visit thebioprosecom and see for yourself. One of the most studied and researched areas of human health and physiology is inflammation. It's associated with cancer. It's associated with joint problems. It's associated with viral infections, bacterial infections. It's associated with death. And out of all the incredible compounds that God gave us through nature that fights inflammation and makes our lives better, turmeric is chief amongst them all. And chief amongst all the turmeric products out, there is body's ultimate turmeric formula. My wife loves turmeric. She has joint pain, but she has to take a lot of it- the type of stuff she buys at the grocery store- for it to work. She started taking this and said I only need to take one pill instead of four. Why is it so good? It's not just turmeric, It's concentrated with the proprietary process. It's back in stock after being sold out almost five months at infowarstorecom for 40% off. But supplies are going to sell out quick because supply chain breakdowns And because we will not lower the quality of this product. And body's is one of our best selling products because it really does work And people love it. Get yours today at infowarstorecom. Protecting everything that's on your phone is paramount. That's why everybody should visit infowarstorecom. We're carrying a huge new line of very compliant, made in America products that have 100% reviews and are simply incredible. It's a 360 win. Protect your privacy and shop at info wars to support the overall info war against the globalist- a true 360 win. Get your Faraday cages at infowarstorecom. Check out the new line. It's amazing. And so the information we cover exposes their evil works and sabotages their globalist takeover, And we're having an incredible effect thanks to your support and your word of mouth. But it's also important to take care of our bodies themselves, with high quality water filtration at infowarstorecom And with amazing supplements, many of which that just came back in stock, like body's ultimate turmeric formula, now 40% off for a limited time at infowarstorecom. So let's fight the info war, but also take care of our bodies. 2021.. The globalists want you dead because they're selfish and they don't want you having the keys of destiny. If you have the keys of destiny And you will use them or you will be enslaved, And the enemies of humanity are unified: The left, the radical Islamists, the Pope that's hijacked and controls the Catholic Church, Hollywood, the Democratic Party, all of these different organizations, big tech- They all represent the same evil force that wants to kill free will. And now this just broke at infowarstorecom, Directly officially announced by the Pope ex-cathedra from his black throne: Pope demands Silicon Valley in the name of God. That's a quote. censor quote, hate speech and conspiracy theories. close quote: Yeah, who's writing his script? Same folks writing the ADL script, Southern priority law script, the UN script. It's all one mouth vomiting it out and they all pick it back up and gobble it up and then vomit it back on us. But he's one of the biggest mouths out there. He said questioning authority and a questioning. the EU and the globalist remember two years ago was like those fascinated with eating human feces. I never even thought of that. I looked up the word he said and he kind of tells us what he's into. right, Pope? I mean, I'm serious. he does do that. You know that to defile his body and cut himself off from God, Believe me, that's the bare minimum this guy does. He oversees pure Satanism. So Pope demands Silicon Valley in the name of God. censor hate speech, conspiracy theories. So he is the anti-Christ general now occupying the Vatican. Pope Francis invoked God in an effort to pressure Silicon Valley giants into censoring more content. They're so desperate, including hate speech and conspiracy theories. Yes, really, the Pope made the remarks during a worldwide meeting of popular movements. Ah, not too much promoting Christianity there. A shadowy organization created to promote social justice- Oh, George Soros- And fight racism with the help of religious leaders. He said: I don't want to hear about Europe's Christian roots. That makes me nauseous. Yes, it isn't like a steaming bowl of poop. It's not delicious like the things you like. Jesus is horrible to you, isn't it? We can't even say his name. I wonder if there's any video of this guy even saying the word Jesus. I don't think. he probably can burst the flame if he did. In the name of God, he said: not Jesus, Let's say this name of Jesus. He said that. now, In the name of God. what God is that? In the name of God, I asked the technology giants to stop exploiting human weakness, which, again, this is all true, They're doing it, but he's going along with their agenda. See, it's like that whistleblower that calls for more censorship. She's not a whistleblower. They want to pose as if they're anti-establishment. It's like: please don't throw me in the briar patch. In the name of God, I asked the technology giants to stop exploiting human weakness, people's vulnerability for the sake of profits, without caring about the spread of hate speech. the grooming, Oh the grooming. Wow, that's the fox telling us about the hen house, Fake news, conspiracy theories and political manipulation, he stated. Pope Francis also invoked the term post-truth. I mean, this is all just New York Times stuff, which was invented by establishment media organs after they began to lose their monopoly of controlling the narrative following the election of their dear leader. apparently believes that Christian and Godly to empower giant corporations to shut down free speech. And again, the computer printed this twice. I can't read it. The election of Joe Biden is leader. There is no surprise, given his previous stance on free speech in response to the slaughter of Charlie Hebdo Cartonis, when he rhetorically sided with the terrorists who murdered them in cold blood. As we documented in the video below, which Pope Francis would surely love to see banned, the Supreme Pontus smears his critics as performing the work of the devil. In reality, his every action and position has served to further the anti-Christ globalist beast system for which he is a willing puppet. Ooh, Paul Watson. Now Paul starts to figure it out. No doubt the Pope would respond to such claims by characterizing them as conspiracy theories and hate speech And beginning to see how the world works. then Paul's got a bunch of videos there for you to see. Wow- And I mean I can't even get to all the news I've got here because this just stuff keeps breaking- And we've got a new first woman four-star admiral. that's a dude. It's a freak show, folks. It's designed to get you all balanced, where you just put up with anything. How do they get us to put up with martial law and all this? Or Satanism openly being practiced in the schools? put up big satanic monuments in front of the churches, in front of the government buildings. All of this is you're already under martial law with the lockdowns. You're already in it. And then Dr Bartlett, who's an amazing person. he works like 20 hours a day trying to save people, Save my dad. no doubt He's just sending messages. Look, here's CBS News locally confirming they put bags over people's heads. Here's another place in another state where the whole body's got a bag on it. This is going to kill people. Next they'll be taping it around their heads and then this morning it broke. They're now taping the bags around the head and actually killing people. Hypoxia When you see in a movie where they put the bag on their head and kill somebody. that's real. Well, now, that's medical care. You're like that's not medical care. Yes, it is. In fact, the left says it's good for babies to be aborted. They'd have horrible lives. See same thing. Teachers at Colorado Springs force children to take masks to their faces over the top because they don't want any of the other air getting in, just like. new videos have come out on CBS News and we can put that screenshot up- I sent it to you- where they've got bags all the way down the body And it's now confirmed. People, when we first reported that last week, thought it was made up. No, There's audio in the article because the students you know, and their cameras at the floor of it happening. Let me just stop right here for just a moment to say this, because I didn't plug last hour. I need to or we won't be here. I'm just going to keep fighting as long as we can stay on air. We're not going to be able to stay on air unless you financially support us, And you've been doing that, except now with the supply chain breakdowns, as you now see everywhere, that we predicted 20 months ago. what, in order to predict? it was part of the lovelace plan. It's like we have their playbook. I think they'll play this play when this happens And they're like, oh my God, they just did it. Yeah, we have the playbook. So I don't get the credit, folks, This is out in the open, But we are the ones that have the courage to talk about it And you have the courage to promote us and get the word out and keep us on air. So you are the fight, You are the info war, But just pulling back from this, we've been sold out all these products that normally we sell enough of to stay on air and actually expand in the face of the globalist. I want to expand during this critical time, But it hasn't happened, And so sometimes we're out of products for almost a year or six or eight months. DNA force finally came back in. We've got it back in stock. It's amazing. And now we have bodies- ultimate turmeric formula back in stock. We got a good shipment of it, but it's still going to sell out in a month or so And it'll be probably four or five, six months before we get more. It is 95% per secret humanoid And it's 40% off for one week only. Inflammation is such an issue with people out there, And turmeric is known to be, of all the things God gave us through nature, the most powerful. Well, this is concentrated, 95% per humanoid, from a leading brand that we did not private label. They were telling us they were 40 something percent per humanoid in their patented process, which we checked, you know, and had tested, It's true, They said, but we could go as high as 94,, 95%, But it costs this much more. We did it, They did it, 95% per humanoid, 95% per humanoid. And again, my wife plays a lot of tennis, a lot of sports, And you know she's very competitive, one of the highest rated in Austin, And she, her hip hurts from it And she takes these big horse pill temperates. And a couple of years ago, when this came out, I said: take this, Start taking like five big pills. She goes, it takes this much but it works better, you know, than Advil and stuff And Tylenol. And she even took painkillers. Sometimes it hurts so bad. Almost had surgery And she took this. She said, my God, I just took one or two pills. It worked as good as five or six big ones, But it shows a lower milligram. And I said it's concentrated, It's according to the rules. you just call it turmeric, but it's a concentrate. So this is what she takes religiously and 99% less complaining. It worked, ladies and gentlemen, That's the power of what God gave us, And then humans are able to concentrate it and make it even stronger. So body's ultimate turmeric formula: back in stock at infowarstorecom or call toll free. That's triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine. triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine, Or you can simply again go to infowarstorecom. We have down and out is still 50% off. We had to end the sale on ultra 12 and winter sun because it's getting close to selling out, more coming in in a few months. But we still have it. It's still discounted 25%, just not 50.. I'm extending DNA force a few more days at 40% off. that extends your telomeres. It doesn't grow them but makes them last longer, which is the same thing, And this is observable, It's documented, It's proven And it's got the PQQ, the CoQ10, and so much more. That is the rules Royce for yourselves, for your mitochondria, for everything else, for your immune system. DNA force plus. But body's ultimate turmeric formula: 40% off limited time in fowarstorecom And we just got it back in again. It was only sold out for a month. We have charcoal toothpaste with activated charcoal concentrated in mouthwash, Designed by my dad, a dentist. It's amazing. No fillers at infowarstorecom. Get that as well. I'm sitting here- It's in the early morning hours and I'm looking at mainstream news reporting on the fact that even the controlled revolving door FDA has come out and said that the Moderna and Pfizer shots need to be held up and not authorized for children because in studies they did on children it caused myocarditis, That's, heart swelling and heart attacks. And then I noticed that even though this is even in the Associated Press, it's not getting any circulation. It's not on the national news and it's very hard to even find on places like Instagram or Twitter. It's just crazy. And then Fauci was on TV just yesterday saying there's no damage from the vaccines, It doesn't hurt anybody. you're a conspiracy theorist if you say it. It's just crazy. And then we have all the scientists who, over a year ago, came out and said these vaccines are going to cause heart problems. They gave the exact reasons why. and now it happened. That's why info wars is on air, Because if we weren't on air, they'd get away with even more of this crap. This is just insane. These people are killers. Because of the globalist reset info wars listeners and viewers know a lot of our best selling products have been sold out, in some cases for up to a year. Body's ultimate turmeric formula with 95% or 6% of humanoid has been sold out for almost five months Because, again, the high quality turmeric and the concentration process is very, very expensive and time consuming And, with the supply chain breakdowns and all the rest of the problems, we've been unable to get it. But we finally got a shipment in and it's 40% off. It is the secret weapon when it comes to your immune system, when it comes to antioxidants, when it comes to your joints, when it comes to your whole body. People absolutely love Body's ultimate turmeric formula. Incredible amounts of five star reviews at infowarsstorecom And it's back in stock at infowarsstorecom. and it fuzz the info war- A true 360 win. Body's ultimate turmeric formula back in stock at infowarsstorecom for a limited time. You're listening to the Alex Jones show. If I was the devil, I would call good evil and evil good. I would silence the families. I would attack Our children. I would say that men are women. I would promote abortion and phantasy in war and big pharma and poisoned shots. I would kill, steal and destroy. If I were the devil- remember Paul Harvey- I'd support the churches. first. I'd begin with a campaign of whispers. With the wisdom of the serpent, I would whisper to you as I whispered to Eve: Do as you please. To the young, I would whisper that the Bible is a myth. I would convince them that man created God instead of the other way around. I would confide that what's bad is good and what's good is square In the old. I would teach you to pray after me, Our father. which art in Washington. And then I'd get organized. I'd educate authors in how to make lurid literature exciting so that anything else would appear dull and uninteresting. I'd threaten TV with dirtier movies and vice versa. I'd peddle narcotics to whom I could. I'd sell alcohol to ladies and gentlemen of distinction. I'd tranquilize the rest with pills. If I were the devil, I'd soon have families at war with themselves, Churches at war with themselves and nations at war with themselves, until each in its turn was consumed, And with promises of higher ratings. I'd have mesmerizing media fanning the play. The president of the United States is racist. If I were the devil, I would encourage schools to recline young intellects, but neglect the discipline emotions just when those run wild. Within a decade I'd have prisons overflowing. I'd have judges promoting pornography Soon. I could evict God from the courthouse, then from the schoolhouse, and then from the houses of Congress And in his own churches. I would substitute psychology for religion. I would lure priests and pastors into misusing boys and girls and church money. If I were the devil, I'd take from those who have and give to those who wanted, until I had killed the incentive of the ambitious. I would caution against extremes. I'm here to warn people. You keep telling me to shut up. This isn't a game. In hard work, in patriotism, in moral conduct, I would convince the young that marriage is old-fashioned, that swinging is more fun, that what you see on TV is the way to be, And thus I could undress you in public and I could lure you into bed with diseases for which there is no cure. In other words, if I were the devil, I'd just keep right on doing what he's doing. And now I'll clip from Media Matters terrify the Tucker Carlson defense-free speech. Here's part of that report. Why do we laugh at Alex Jones again, since here Tucker's understated for three, four years? I've been friends with Tucker for about eight, nine. I mean, you know as well as I, there's nobody in the press who is culturally on the same page as you are- or I am, for that matter. Alex Jones, Alex Jones, Alex Jones, Tucker Carlson. Alex Jones, Alex Jones, Tucker Carlson. Alex Jones, Alex Jones, Tucker Carlson. For the record, we have never endorsed any kind of conspiracy theory in the show and never would. FBI operatives were organizing the attack on the Capitol on January 6th. This was a psychological warfare operation to manipulate a crowd. You know, that's enough. I'm not even going to play the whole thing. We're out of time. I'm going to play it later if we have time. But it's admitted the FBI was running things. now It's come out. So just the way they operate and the way they try to get Tucker in trouble at News Corp for defending me, it's not going to work. Tucker is the only guy there that has a contract where you can say whatever he wants, Just so you know. So they're totally panicked. They don't know what to do. All right, I've got the biggest news yet on the bio weapons being cooked up in labs we're going to hit. Then I'm going to get into the NATO information and how that's really the King Daddy operation. And then I've got that really key thing I'm going to start beginning to talk about today: the observer effect and quantum physics, or quantum mechanics of quantum physics. It'll be right back. I am taping this update on the morning of Tuesday, October 19th 2021 to let all of our great radio and TV listeners know that bodies, ultimate turmeric formula that's been sold out for a long time, is back in stock at a 5% humanoid level. It's so good for inflammation and more for 40% off for a limited time that it goes back to regular price in one week. That's bodies, ultimate turmeric formula, back in stock, 40% off for a limited time at m4storecom. and vaso beats is selling out fast. So good for your heart, your lungs, your cardiovascular system creates nitrous oxide in the blood. It's a really strong concentrate as well. It's 50% off. Crill oil: selling out fast, 40% off. Oh my God. you think fish oil is good? This is amazing. Crill oil, DNA Force Plus- I've extended that for a few more days- 40% off, back in stock. Amazing Down and out, 50% off. It's got eight different natural compounds for deeper, cleaner sleep. It's all available at m4storecom. Alright, ladies and gentlemen, we've covered a lot of global news. We've covered the transgender depopulation, western style one-child policy program where we sterilize our young boys and condition them and brainwash them to accept transgenderism, which is again just chemical or physical mutilation and sterilization. That we covered a lot. We covered a lot of other big subjects, but right now I'm going to hit the big one That, yes, I've been harping on for 20 months every day on the show, because it is the great reset, It is the takeover, It is their new water plan in Klaus Schwab, in Bill Gates' own words. So I'm going to hit this right now. Huge stack here And they're all ties together. I hope you take notes and hope you listen to me very, very carefully, because this is a life and death situation. We know that Fauci works for the depopulation. as eugenicists, They cooked up COVID-19 as a bio weapon out of five viruses that they would own, that they could control, so they could then release more deadly variants whenever they wanted, claiming that they were just variants of COVID-19.. They produced synthetic nanotech viruses that would show up in a testing machine as COVID-19, and they really just wanted the COVID-19 cover story to be able to release nanotech viruses that have a half-life that only replicates so long, so that the globalists can bomb certain areas or certain places, like the chemical or biological version of a neutron bomb, And if you don't know what that is, look it up, you'll understand. A neutron bomb kills all the life. that leaves the infrastructure in place and doesn't destroy the buildings, and the radiation is gone in just a few minutes and then you can just come in and replant and regrow. And most of the nuclear weapons are neutron. that's the whole globalist plan. One plan is to neutron bomb the surface of the main cities and depopulate us that way and they just neutron us at any point. I know in the 80s they put neutron bombs up in orbit, so just remember that. And once they get their people in full control of the Pentagon- which they've almost got- they may just go ahead and neutron all of us. But God's in control. we'll see if God's stopped that. That's just side issue. I need to get off the neutron bombs for you. This is the equivalent of a neutron biological weapon where it's synthetic and it has a half-life and it infects normally only one or two people. after that- And I was told that by a lot of people actually in US intelligence from the highest levels last year- they said no, they're going to release synthetics and it can only infect a few people after. and then it basically is designed in its replication to phase out. And then I haven't seen it yet, but I've talked to friends and others that have sent the new James Bond movie that they held up for a year because it was- quote- too close to the real pandemic And in that there's a bio-weapon that's ray-specific that only kills who it targets. unless you're one or two people down in the chain While you're infected, dying, it can slough off and kill you as well, which is actually what it does. So they just again they love, they go watch the movies and just enjoy it. and how they're killing you and how they told you they killed you because you're supposed to publish a notice under universal law that you're going to kill somebody when you do it, Just like when you're going to destroy a building or take a piece of property by adverse possession that nobody's been claiming or paying taxes on. you've got to post it. And so I haven't seen it yet. I'm going to try to go see it in the next few days, The new Brainwashing James Bond movie, not because it's entertaining or good, but because I want to be able to analyze it, but I'm told that's what's in it, And so I told you about it a long time ago. others told you about it and now it's here and now it's confirmed, but it's in a movie, so it's oh, you got that from the movie, Yeah, right, So let's go ahead and just give you some background here. on the new thing, though, Remember we made a big deal about this last year, that in the year before that, in 2019, a bunch of people working for Bill Gates, Peter Dazik and others. they don't work for the US government. they don't work for the Canadian government. they don't work for the Chinese government. It's being honest. I hate the Chinese government, I hate communism, but, as best we know, they're triple agents like Specter in a James Bond movie. they're a global corporate group above it all that plays the cutaries off against each other, But they've got operatives in every government as well. so they're telling you how the globalist Bilderberg group works. Ian Fleming told you, The head of the Bilderberg group is now the head of the Davos group. Like Cobra Commander goes behind the bushes at his meeting with a mask on, then he comes out as Klaus Schwab during the day. that's the allegory. I'm not literally saying Klaus Schwab's Cobra Commander. he's far worse because he's real Children. So let's continue. But they tell you in all the literature and culture how it works. So uninhabitable hell. climate change and disease threatens millions UN warrants And it says right here that, oh my God, this is like 2019, we're all going to be dead soon. super viruses will emerge because it's going to get too hot. This is from Reuters. So when things emerge, oh, it's your fault, it's global war. I remember they told you that last year. Worse is yet to come. Disaster is future ahead For millions worldwide due to climate change reports. it says US aid a day And it says the same thing: that hot weather is going to cause super viruses And life on earth will not be able to recover and it's going to be unlivable and you're all going to die. So when they hit you with a bio weapon and they tell you it naturally came out of a cave in China or a wet market, you believe it. They're all pre-programming you. When the bio weapon comes, it was because you were bad When you died. it's because you were bad, Okay, good, Okay, thank you. By the way, here's your new admiral. He's a transgender, Okay. so it says cardiovascular and respiratory diseases will come from the heat. So a respiratory disease is going to kill you from the heat. It says right there, from the heat. Leaked UN draft report warrants of accelerating climate devastation. Oh, but it wasn't out of a cave, It wasn't out of the jungles of Africa, It was London Telegraph. Wuhan scientists plan to release coronavirus particles into KBAT's. leaked papers reveal. Oh, and they planned to spray it in nanoparticles of synthetic viral delivery system of chimeric COVID spike proteins, using skin penetrating nanoparticles that also then replicate the body. The story of the scientist said it'll only replicate a few times, so it won't spread to humans, Just like the real stuff they're spraying us with right now. Oh, and then there's a bunch of articles about the backgrounds: Gads that convinced Fauci funded Chinese coronavirus research conference featuring Hunter Biden, leaked pandemic group. It goes on. So there's the background. Now let me give you the new information. You just always want to back things up, though, for you, so that you understand what's going on here And you can look it up for yourself. Here's the new news. Let's get the new news. Let's go back a few years, As I said, in 2019, when they were getting all this cooked up and ready and creating plausible liability And the experts have come out, The people involved. This is all the news. A group of Chinese government connected Peter Dazik connected Bill Gates connected Fauci connected Scientists snuck out of the lab. They call that steel out of the lab in Canada, a virus that at that time killed 40% of humans. that got it, But now they've souped it up at Wuhan to kill 80%, and they're now admitting that. And so Fauci says, though, something far worse is coming and he's now given you a vaccine to lower your immunity to it. Okay, that was three years ago, Two and a half years ago. There's no one bio warfare expert questions why Canada was sending lethal viruses to China. That's the Edmonton Journal. World's deadliest viruses were shipped to Wuhan leak lab from Canada by rogue scientists linked to Chinese military. the sun Questions around Canadian shipment of deadly viruses to China. Protocol ignored and pathogen transferred and weaned. Ping's microbiology lab, Winnipeg free press, Canada's lab, Canada's lab. shipment of Ebola, Hennepa viruses to China raised questions. The CDC then they've got them, merging them and creating them and all the rest of it here Now. here's the next little juicy for you out of CTV news, also out of Canada last month, and they're not making a big deal about it. They just say, suddenly, the very virus shipped in 2019 to the Wuhan lab that killed 40% of people then has now, for the first time, popped up in India And it's killing the majority of people. that get it. Okay, they don't put two and two together here and point that out. So, they get it, they ship it to the lab, they soup it up even more. It magically pops up for the first time, this variety in India, and it's nothing to worry about. Okay, what is Nipah? The deadly virus emerging in India alongside COVID-19.. And it goes on to say: well, it used to kill 40%, but now it kills 80% and it's now able to jump into humans because it was zoologically just magically made the leap where it can do it now. So, oh, that's a small part of the stack today as they gear up to murder everyone, But they're doing it to save the earth. right, We'll be right back in FullWarscom. tomorrow's news today, Hey, everybody, if you've ever thought about heirloom beans as a storable survival food, I've got great news. In fact, I'll bet it's the best news you've heard in a while. Here's the thing: we've just received a fresh batch of gourmet heirloom beans- survival soup beans. These beans are gorgeous, highly nutritious and above all, with no hesitation whatsoever, the best tasting beans in the entire world. The best part: We've dropped the price by 33% this week. for listeners who know higher food prices are coming and want an inflation hedge you can actually eat if you want to. gets even better. With your permission, and with a high regard for your health and well-being, I also want to send you two pounds of what we think is the single most underrated superfood in the world period. Go to soupbeansurvivalcom- that's soupbeansurvivalcom- and discover the real reason we're giving this unusual superfood away at soupbeansurvivalcom. that's soupbeansurvivalcom. Your voice counts When you share information, be it over the internet or in person. it changes the world. The globalists know their agenda is unpopular, they know you're angry, and now, to get around big tech, it's more important than ever that we use every tool we've got. So, ladies and gentlemen, if you sign up for our free news and show alerts, you can then take those alerts, those articles and those live feeds- both the regular shows and special reports- and share them with everyone you know. Take action now by texting the word NEWS to 833-470-0438.. That's 833-470-0438 for InfoWars Emergency News Alerts. or text the word SHOW to 833-470-0438 and receive live show notifications. Take action now, rate the chain reaction and tell others to share those texts. Get news alerts at 833-470-0438.. If you only knew the power of the dark side. join Bill Gates and together we will defeat humanity. Then our gods will reward us with eternal life. That's basically the ethos of the globalists. They must first play God. they must first prove that they are the fittest in their social Darwinistic system And in a way, they're right. if we let them lie to us and dumb us down and poison us and destroy our children's futures- and the evidence is overwhelming and out in the open- we really deserve what's happened to us. So I ask you now: are you going to step up and expose the new order even more? I know I'm pledging to step up and redouble my efforts. The front lines of the fight is infowarsgov. The average person on the face of this incredible planet is still unaware that there's a war between three individuals and nation states on one side and the globalists on the other, who are literally trying to create a post-human world. From the United States to Brazil and, of course, triggered by the Brexit in the UK, nations were pulling out of the private, corporate, fascist world government. That's why they launched their great recess And they're programing, after collapsing us, of Build Back Better. This is nothing more than a top-down vertical consolidation of the world economy. And because they couldn't take our guns and because we wouldn't bow, because the left, which is the ideology of this world government system, couldn't win, they released a biological weapon on us. Now we know two years ago. we learned about it about 20 months ago. It's that simple. They can't meet us because of our free speech and our guns. So the global corporate combine released COVID-19, and you know. the rest is history. Expose this paradigm and we win. It's one of the biggest stories in the world that Alex Jones found guilty of defaming and purposely lying about people like they have, like something that read my mind And you notice. they said: now a jury will decide how much money he owes because he's guilty. Since when do judges say who's guilty and then a jury decides how much money you owe? Well, that's really never been done before. The lawyers did a great job breaking this down back at the time that I wasn't aware of, And so we're going to play part of that coming up in the next segment. Now, I said I was going to hit that huge news and I am briefly, but you cannot do it justice without reading at all- And it's probably just in this little folder, probably 30 pages of stuff, 40 pages that off of each little piece you can riff off of. But I promise you we're going to be getting into it in great detail because it's very, very positive but also very, very scary information. I also have this big NATO information that is so important that people really aren't aware of, And so we've already covered that some the last few days. but I'll be getting more into that. But let's just get back to this for a second. I showed you mainstream news, government documents, admissions that Fauci, through Peter Dazik and Bill Gates Money, didn't just create COVID-19 and said they were going to release an open air and create nanoparticles that replicate in piercer skin. They didn't just power grab and censor people that exposed it. They didn't just block therapeutics that would protect people. They didn't just bring in a world government, a world ID under it, But then we learned got hundreds of other super deadly viruses far worse. but still they're souping them up at the Wuhan lab And I guess they'll release another one. And then there'll also be the spokespersons that tell us they're in charge and tell us what to do and tell us what to put in our bodies. And this is so over the top- and it's meant to be over the top because it's just so ridiculous what they're doing. People can't believe that the guy running all this quarterback, producing it and releasing it- And then they had it stolen out of the lab which they shouldn't be making up in Canada- And Justin Trudeau, who's totally a Chinese communist agent and says he wants to set up a dictatorship in Canada, modeled that for Xi Jinping. I mean that happened. And then, lo and behold, he's got Chinese troops training up there and has the military spying on the citizens and the head general goes public and they fire him. I mean this is crazy. Well, if they did that, people blow the whistle. They do, And they fire them. And then they put in some you know woman in a four-star general outfit- That's what they do- And milly up there saying our military is racist and evil, White people are inherently bad. I mean this is a takeover. They don't say we're global, It certainly populates you. I mean they do say that, But to the general public, it's your race, It's your bad, America's evil. Yeah, we're flying in. Hundreds of thousands of kids are disappearing, No big deal, Just to shut up. Look, four-star admiral, is a woman, Aren't you excited? And it's a man. So this is just mass behavioral psychology: confusing and scrambling and just smoke screening and befuddling everybody. It's called the fog of war. So it's totally illegal and evil for Canada to be making this stuff and claiming oh, because they want to be able to counter it, But then to create new viruses and splice them with it so it can jump into humans and then send it to Wuhan so they can release it on the world and then say, oh, was it America? Was it Canada? Was it China? Was it the UN? Was it Bill Gates? That's who it was. So we're living in a biological weapon attack And I've got like writers calling me in national news all the time: Oh, do a big interview, Oh, do a big biopic on you, Do a movie on you. And I'm just like that is none of that's even going to exist. Do you understand? they did a test weapon with something that kills old people and people that are already sick, to see how you respond. Did they release something a little more worse? Just as I predicted they would, Because they want to control things. They don't want to release really bad stuff up front. And now they're telling you: OK, something far worse is coming, Get ready, Go in your houses and lock up. when it happens, They're just going to fly over with drones and spray it on your house. You're going to die. So I mean I'm sitting here looking at the clock going. man, I'm winding up on this. I really ought to get to some middle of the nowhere log cabin, 100 miles from anywhere. If I was a selfish person, I would look at my four-year-old daughter, so beautiful and good this morning, so full of God's light, And I'm just thinking, man, should I just pull up? I should get the hell out of here right now. Just to you know, the public, they're not going to listen. They're just going to have to get exterminated And I don't want to die with them. And, believe me, all the people I know already left all the smart money already split. I mean it's America and Australia and New Zealand and Canada and the UK. We're marked for death because of the Christian ethos and our background and our historical opposition to the New World Order. They took this over because of our power to take over the world. Now they want to get rid of, who helped them take over the world. So and they're telling you that you know the cataclysm's here, The end of the world's here. They mean the end of the world for us, And so it's just, it's ridiculous, It's absolutely ridiculous to see judges, you know, out there attacking us and taking away our due process and doing North Korea stuff. People are, aren't you upset about that? I'm like that doesn't even matter. Do you understand that They have produced a virus that kills 80% of people and they admit they've got it. and it's in mainstream news that Fauci got it and has it? the damn lab He's holding his hostage. Do you understand that? And all your race politics and all your political crap doesn't matter anymore If we don't get a major awakening in the intelligence agencies and in governments and in corporations to put the brakes on this. it's over. I saw John Stuart was on TV this weekend. I'm seeing him going. let's stop fighting left and right. Listen, Trump's not really that bad. We need to stop all the censorship. This is really bad. You need to stop. And they're not listening, folks, because they're going full bore And everybody that isn't totally satanic on the other side is like, well, we wanted to run things but not do this. What's going on? Well, I mean, you know John Stuart's brother runs the New York Stock Exchange, heavily hooked up. He knows And he looks scared. folks- and you should be- People should be really scared because the globalists know about intention and focus and will and the power of humans to change the universe around us. That is observer effect, quantum physics proven. And they had that power and they know, if you believe in that power and connect to God and then have God's will, that you can literally move mountains. Not some magic trick, not some Jedi thing- Luke Skywalker, you know picking up rocks with Yoda. I mean change the universe, the way energy interacts with other humans and other systems, with positive wavelengths and destructive wavelengths. Lower energy that's coming in from the first and second dimensions, that simple way of thinking, human, that tends to be very destructive and hateful. They try to harness that and control it, but you can't. And then higher energy waves that are fueling the third dimension. It's like a Roman arch where there's no cement between the big blocks but they perfectly weigh together and then come together with the keystone right in the metal. That's how the dimensions hold each other together, like a Roman arch. That's a simple three-dimensional rendering it for you And there's charges coming down in it and charges coming up into it, And they don't even really say that in their literature. but you get deeper into the quantum mechanics and the rest of it and they know that And it's what the alchemists knew inherently as primitive humans, but they could express it but didn't understand it all. They got devices that can read it, and the Hadron superconducting, supercollider and more, And they are using our power to tell us: you're ugly, you're bad, the end of the world's coming giant cataclysm, you need to die 2030, everyone's going to die. They mean us. And they're out there singing William Shatner, AOC, Beto O'Rourke and they're kind of the outside. they get taken to meetings and told: oh, the pole chef's going to do it, oh, the virus is out of the jungle are going to do it, And so they've not been given the full thing. They're just scared going. everybody's going to die. I'm so sad, William, you're all going to die. I'm so sad for you. They don't have the full story. So I mean it's here, It's here. I mean just, they have initiated this. I hope we can stop it, I hope we can back them down. I hope we get a reprieve like Nenema, but who knows folks, Who knows All right more more coming up. Stay with us. If you're concerned about the power grid and want to generate your own supply of off-grid electricity, this will be the most important message you'll hear this year. Here's why We now have a small number of solar generators back in stock. These emergency backup systems provide life-saving backup power when you need it most And, unlike gas generators, solar generators run quietly, emit no dangerous fumes and produce an endless supply of free electricity from the sun. Whether it's wildfires, dangerous weather, power grid issues or just getting off the grid, you'll never have to suffer through painful power outages again. Even better, all this week, radio listeners get over $700 in free off-the-grid bonuses too. Go to mysolarbackupcom to learn more and check availability. That's mysolarbackupcom. Look for the free report: Crisis Cooling- how to make absolutely sure your meat, milk and medicines stay safe and cool in any power outage. Yours free at mysolarbackupcom. This is the Liquid Tincture and I think this is probably the most powerful one. Survival Shield X2, nascent iodine. This is, if you haven't done an iodine challenge yet. if you haven't done the iodine challenge, what are you waiting for? now is the time: Supermale and superfemale vitality, Living Defense Plus and the Organic Greens Fiber Caps. We have a limited supply of these right now but we want to sell them all out so we can order a new batch. It was very popular. the Organic Greens Fiber Caps- We have all kinds of other great supplements that are great for so many different things. Take advantage of those. In the past they created thousands of trillions so that they could leverage that, manipulate markets, but they never allowed that money to get into the general circulation or it would cause massive inflation. Now they've gone ahead and weaponized it and are flooding every sector of the world economy, buying up everything, not to have the companies operate, but to actually shut them down and force a collapse of civilization, making the companies they do fund be the only things left standing. This is the Great Reset. This is what's happening now. Warn everyone. It's the only way to stop it. Our leading competitor has a 75% humanoid level. This is a special proprietary concentrate. It is so good for information, for your immune system, It's an antioxidant for your whole body. It's documented. It's amazing. Everybody knows that turmeric is an incredible thing that God created and bodies is the strongest and best You're going to find and it's back on stock and it funds the info war: 40% off for a limited time. that goes back to regular price. right now You're listening to the Alex Jones show. You are listening to an infowarscom frontline report. If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance. All right, I'm going to cover this story So, not because I'm right in the middle of it, but because I don't think some of the public realizes how bad this is, how unusual this is, but how it's becoming very common in blue cities and blue states. People ask: why do you live in Austin, Texas, when it's basically the dumping ground of people that are leaving collapsed California? And it's because my mother's from here and my ancestors, going back to the 1820s on her side and the 1820s on my dad's side, are from Texas And on both sides of the family we're founding members of the state On my mom's side- it's ridiculous- Like people that actually had the plan with Jackson behind the scenes. you know the whole deal. So it's where I live. It's been conquered, It's been captured And many of the judges are complete political operatives and do things like indict Rick Perry criminally for vetoing a bill, And that's totally constitutional, But they still tried to have a court and have a jury and put him in prison And he had to spend $2 million to beat it. So in my view this is real criminal activity And it's the judicial system weaponized, stalking Texans. It's like Austin's like a leftist mothership or a cancer right here in the middle of the city attacking everybody. And so folks need to understand. I don't get a trial to say I'm innocent or guilty. with a jury The judge says I'm guilty, says I gave them no information, which is totally not true. And Barnes points out we scanned through millions of documents. We gave them hundreds of thousands total in Connecticut and Texas Depositions- everything I've never been allowed to depose or even have one document in Texas. We asked for that and she said you're defaulted And she was a new judge. another judge handed it over after COVID. So think of the magnitude of that where I've never gotten one document, never had a chance to depose anybody. She says you don't, but she's got me in depositions again in a couple of weeks She's like, oh, but the depositions continue, but you never gave us anything. So I mean this is beyond a kangaroo court, beyond a kangaroo trial, because at least there they have kangaroos. This is no judge or trial at all. So here it is All right. let's go on to the one that is also equally interesting. Alex Jones is- you'll tell me if I'm wrong, Robert- Did he not just get screwed royally, and but how? So I mean, there's a lot of Alex Jones defamation lawsuits in different jurisdictions, but the bottom line, I think this is in Texas. this was in Texas, right, Yes? And the judge? spoiler alert- the judge came out with a default judgment against him which basically adjudicated on the merits of the defamation claim. Basically, Robert, unless I'm mistaken, he's guilty of defamation, default judgment. How you get a default judgment under these circumstances? you're going to elucidate me and everyone watching. He's guilty. Now the only question is how much? Yeah, I mean because the media pretended that there had been a judgment on the merits. The. both the plaintiff's lawyer and the court are scared of an Austin jury giving a judgment on the merits because they denied Alex Jones his constitutional right to a jury trial on the merits. What the court did, and this is what's happening in liberal jurisdictions. It's why I've been telling clients of mine for a decade to get out of liberal jurisdictions. Don't be in the Austins of the world, Don't be. And for you know I, you know Michael Malice, other people moving to Austin, I get it, but that that that's as bad as New York. legally There's no difference that either. politically They're even more nuts because it, because they are annoyed at how the state doesn't agree with them, the state that surrounds them, And so they're even more aggressive. So the Austin judges are increasingly openly, overtly political. The prosecutor that got elected in Austin was backed by George Sorrell's related groups. I mean, that's the mindset of the political groups there in Austin And they're eager to punish their political adversaries. And so that this is a suit that wouldn't have been brought in most places in the country. It would have been thrown out on First Amendment grounds in most places in the country but not in Austin. And the bigger problem is the court of appeals in Austin is also mostly in Austin, So it's all Democrats. So you have a conservative state, but if you live in Austin, you have almost all liberal Democrats ruling on your cases, And they have proven over the past decade that they have no recognition of their limits. And so what happened here is: here's a guy in Alex Jones and his other- the other defendants that are sued in for wars et cetera, produced millions of pages and documents and testimony and email and videos and hours I mean you added together, produced all kinds of videos, all kind of audio files, all kind of email files. They even produced the spam email- I mean just email- that they had just been spanned with. They never even read. They produced all of that. They sat for days and days and days of depositions, More invasive discovery than ever has been allowed in the history of anti-slap cases in the country. Then he does a second round of discovery. after all of that, And after producing more discovery than I think any media defendant has ever produced, the court says: oh, that's not enough, I'm not going to let you have a jury trial judgment for the plaintiff. But just just just- everybody appreciates this because this was your tweet. And then someone cheekily report: that's a- that's a nice way to phrase the judgment. This was not I'm not going to let you have a jury trial. This was I'm not going to let you have a trial. as far as I understand it, They basically said: no jury trial, no bench trial, no summary judgment motion, none of it. It says effectively: you defaulted in such an egregious way on communicating answers to undertakings- I forget what the word is in the states that I'm basically saying you're guilty by your conduct in the file, not by the merits of the file. So we- I had a file like this back in the day- was a big one. It was a well known American guy- This is all public, but names are irrelevant- who got a default judgment in the United States because apparently the conduct was so egregious in the courts that they rendered a several hundred million dollar judgment against the individual by default. No trial, no ability to defend. They basically said your behavior was so over the top, You're guilty by default. They took the default judgment, brought it over to Canada and then tried to seize you know hundreds of millions of dollars worth of assets. This is, seems to what happened in this case is in the context of the procedure of the file. They say you defaulted or you didn't communicate answers to undertakings. You were jerking the court around, even if it's true- I don't think it's true, but let's just assume it's true- You screwed around so badly that we're just saying you're guilty by default. guilty. Now let's go to the amount. and you don't even get to have a substantiation of the allegations against you on the merits. It's a foregone conclusion because you behave so badly. That's what happened to them. Yeah, that's what the court ruled. And to give people an idea of these kind of death penalty sanctions, that's what they're known as- because they're denying you your right to get discovery from the other side. They're denying you the right to summary judgment motion, which in Texas you have a right to go up through the appellate process before you even get to trial if it's a certain kind of electronic media defendant involved. They're denying you a right to a bench trial and denying you a right to a jury trial. They're denying you all of it. It's considered such a severe sanction Courts have repeatedly said it should never really be given outside of absolutely extraordinary, extreme circumstances with multiple warnings. to give people an example, The only time it's issues when someone produces no discovery ever. Let me stop you on there, Robert. I think even producing no discovery would still be contempt. But when there's evidence that they've destroyed documentation might be, when you get it, You have to have multiple layers of it even then, because typically, even if they destroyed evidence, there's other remedies that are available. So if you need to produce, like in the federal system, for example, if there's been an allegation of destruction of evidence. you have to prove that you can't get that evidence any other way. You have to prove that an evidentiary inference wouldn't be favorable, It wouldn't be enough, or other a fee or fine. And that's almost never the case. I mean, it's almost like this would be the kind of case. you have a video of the incident. It's the only video of the incident. There's no other witness testimony available. You're ordered to produce it. You destroy it. That's the kind of thing where they consider severe sanction. But even there they usually differ you in evidentiary sanction. They say you get to assume that whatever was on that tape was bad for the other party. That's the typical remedy, The law, because these are constitutional rights, rights to due process of law, rights to a trial and rights to trial by jury that are being stripped of someone. it can only be done under extreme and extraordinary circumstances. But the left doesn't recognize these rules. They don't care about them. They're like we don't like you. You're Alex Jones, All right, we come back. We've got it. It gets even more powerful, But you have to understand this is a precedent for everybody And he gets it now. They're doing it all over the country now And then just saying you're guilty, You owe money, And then lying, lying and saying we gave them no information. We want to have a jury trial. We want to show the facts, because nothing they've said is true. The globalists are bombarding us with propaganda and with spiritual warfare and with poisons and chemicals added to the food. It's all come out. And they're doing that not because we're weak, but because we're made the image of God, the Creator, and we are powerful. Social engineers fear that so much. So that's why I repeat that famous Internet saying that nobody knows who first came up with the boy. Is it true? The propaganda would not be necessary if the situation was hopeless. They need all their propaganda and all their lies and all their evil and all their cultural death because they know we are strong And they know in the end they signed on to God of this world who is a loser. And that's why it's so important that everybody keep info wars in the air, now more than ever, Because, even if you don't believe in God, what the globalists are manifesting and setting up is satanic And we are opposing the one world government and the mark of the beast. they just announced One of the most studied and researched areas of human health and physiology is inflammation. It's associated with cancer. It's associated with joint problems. It's associated with viral infections, bacterial infections. It's associated with death. and out of all the incredible compounds that God gave us through nature that fights inflammation and makes our lives better, turmeric is chief amongst them all. And chief amongst all the turmeric products out there is body's ultimate turmeric formula. My wife loves turmeric. She has joint pain but she has to take a lot of it- the type of stuff she buys at the grocery store- for it to work. She started taking this and said: I only need to take one pill instead of four. Why is it so good? It's not just turmeric, It's concentrated with the proprietary process. It's back in stock and for being sold out almost five months at infowarstorecom for 40% off. But supplies are going to sell out quick because of supply chain breakdowns and because we will not lower the quality of this product. And body's is one of our best selling products because it really does work and people love it. That's it for today at infowarstorecom. Well, we know this is all really happening and it's unbelievably unsettling to see, But there's only two things to do. We continue sounding the alarm because it's a numbers game. If enough people awaken from the cold spell, then we win. But even when we win- and we eventually will- the days of convenience are soon coming to an end, And so we must prepare: get up to a year's worth of storable foods, water filtration, survival gear, seeds, shortwave radios and lifesaving knowledge at infowarstorecom. The technocrats, the social engineers, the behavioral psychologist- they're all part of the same satanic, globalist control freak system that seeks to play God, that seeks to turn the general population of this earth into their slaves, into putty, into clay into their hands that they control, And chief amongst their physical attacks is keeping us from high quality vitamins and minerals that are essential for life on this planet. And so the information we cover exposes their evil works and sabotages their globalist takeover, And we're having an incredible effect thanks to your support and your word of mouth. But it's also important to take care of our bodies themselves, with high quality water filtration at infowarstorecom And with amazing supplements, many of which that just came back in stock, like bodies, ultimate turmeric formula- now 40% off for a limited time at infowarstorecom. So let's fight the info war, but also take care of our bodies. You're listening to the Alex Jones show, So it's very important to add about this default against me here in Austin, Texas, against Owen and everything out of the day in court and others, is that even the Huffington Post and groups talked to lawyers that said: we don't even know, this is real, We don't believe courts can even do this. This doesn't even exist unless somebody basically just runs off and doesn't show up for court. So this is real, real corruption. And the judge even said: I'm doing this because you criticized me and said I'm having a show trial, which she'd been doing. She'd been saying we'd given them no information, which isn't true, And she talked about a default. And I said: if that's the case, it's a show trial. Well, hell, it's not a show trial, It's no trial at all. Here they are finishing up Because these are constitutional rights- rights to do process of law, rights to a trial and rights to trial by jury- that are being stripped of someone. it can only be done under extreme and extraordinary circumstances. But the left doesn't recognize these rules. They don't care about them. They're like we, don't like you. You're Alex Jones, They, they. they carved out a separate rules for Alex Jones on defamation law that they haven't applied to anyone else. They carved out separate rules on First Amendment law that they haven't applied to anyone else. They carved out separate laws on public speech outside of the courthouse that they haven't applied to anyone else. The court system is making a mockery of itself because it is such inflamed and political prejudice against Alex Jones, And who is being really judged by this process is not Alex Jones, It's the abhorrent lack of respect for the law by the courts themselves. And, Robert, I mean I know why you're angry with this, because this is the ultimate irony, And I got to bring this up Kangaroo Court from Chris Hill. I didn't read the judgment. I really want to And I might do a standalone on this. I just read a few articles where the judge apparently cited Alex Jones repeatedly, saying this was a show trial, a mockery of the system, to show his contempt for the process. And what does the judge do after all of this says: you're not even going to get a trial. I'm going to be in your behavior to be so bad for having called us a mockery, a show trial. I'm going to be so bad, I'm not going to give you a trial. Thus, hate him or love him, And I've got to meet him now. I don't hate him. I think he's actually you know he's. he's been like a lot of people know he's been right a lot more than a broken clock. But love him or hate him. He says this is a show trial. And what does the judge do? She gets so mad at him for saying it's a show trial that she doesn't give him a day in court for the hearing on the merits default judgment. So obvious question: what are his remedies and what shall he be availing himself to? So there'll be. I mean, this is almost unprecedented. So, like almost everything else in his cases, it's figuring out. what do you do when the court system is so biased that it just won't apply the law? You can't trust it to enforce the law. That's novel, I mean. so I deal with that in a lot of my other cases, But because my case is so political- that's the nature of them. But it's still shocking to witness, I mean especially under the. again, if you have great confidence in your case, if you're the plaintiff's lawyer, if you're the court, if you believe that Alex Jones was wrong, let a jury say so, Let the evidence be fully presented. Why, why be so scared of an Austin jury which is going to be a very liberal, Democratic jury. It's very revelatory that all of these judges won't let him have his day in court. It's almost as if they know something about these cases, that these cases won't hold up in the way some people think. But right now what happens is so he's. you know there's all the ways you can procedurally challenge a default judgment so he can deal with that part of it. They're going to have a jury trial on damages. That's the only thing they're allowing: a jury trial on damages in Austin in May, according to the records. And so he'll be defending himself on that. And then I think you know the media lied. massive libel campaign by the media. The media went out there and told everybody: oh, there's been a substantive ruling on the merits Alex Jones lost because he couldn't produce evidence. That's all a media lie. NBC, ABC, CNN, all of them are just flat out lying about Alex Jones. Why is it? if Alex Jones is so bad, The media always has to lie about him. And just everybody's clear, because I mean, I've been reading it and I'm familiar with it. They said he could not. the framing is he could not produce evidence to substantiate his claims. Let's just even assume that that were true He could not produce evidence to substantiate his claims, That might only mean that he didn't have the evidence to substantiate them. It wouldn't prove the falseness. Even if you get to the next step, which is proving the actual falseness of the statements, you might then arguably have to deal with the criteria of actual malice, because these are public figures. What's the word Spontaneous? Well, in Texas they changed the rules on that too. They were pretending they were private figures, that they weren't public figures. I mean that's why it's like every crazy rule that did come about. But that's why it's like if the media's interpretation was right that he didn't have evidence to support his position, then you go to trial. You don't do a default judgment. You only go to a default judgment when you think even an Austin liberal jury will rule in Alex Jones's favor when they hear the actual facts, because they would hear very different set of facts than the media's told, And so they would find out things totally opposite of what the media has been telling people about the case and about him. And so it tells you a lot that liberals are afraid of their own jury pools in these kind of cases, that they have to rig the system to try to just shaft Alex Jones. Ultimately, this default judgment- my prediction- will be overturned by the Texas Supreme Court because it's such a egregious breach of the law, such a clear violation of constitutional right and makes such a mockery. The Texas Supreme Court has to keep stepping in because the Austin Court just can't follow the law And the Austin Texas Court of Appeals can't follow the law when it comes to political cases. And just so that nobody thinks Robert is being unfair because he's partial- I won't say biased, partial- to Alex Jones, when Robert says it's unprecedented, you can go pull up the articles. Even the counsel for the plaintiffs recognize, acknowledged, publicly stated it's unprecedented. They just say it's warranted under the circumstances because it's a unique set of fact pattern. But when you, if anybody thinks this is a default judgment, meaning there had been no trial on the merits to prove the evidence, that is now going to go through as a foregone fact for adjudication on damages. If anybody thinks that this is the new criteria, there's an analogy in there to something that's going on right now. Oh yes, in terms of the requirements for mass vaccination based on risk of a virus. If that's the new criteria, you'll be getting default judgments left, right and center just based on who is politically expedient to get them against and who is not. It's I hadn't followed the case in a long time And when I read it, who's the judge, Robert, by the way, Do we know who appointed this judge? They're, they're elected there at the state court level in Austin, And same with all. in fact, all levels of courts are elected. So trial courts and the appellate courts are all overwhelmingly liberal Democrats And it's, you know, to me it's. there used to be some old school liberal Democrats that understood the importance of the rule of law, understood the perception of the fairness of a proceedings. These judges, in my view, do not. They don't respect that at all. But now, just to reconcile, maybe something that might be incompatible here. If it's, if it's an elected judge, I mean, I now that I know how people get elected at a municipal and a lower level, you know level- it's not by massive amounts of votes, It's by a very small amount of highly involved individuals, which is why I now fully appreciate, and in a cynical sense, the strategy of infiltrating these systems at the local level, because it requires so little manpower to do it at a level where you know you can get elected or not elected by 30 votes, And so if you just have a lot of money to put into these things, you can really change things from the bottom up, from a cynical or Machiavellian or good perspective. But this judge was elected, which means, in theory, the constituents wanted this type of judge with these types of rules. It's worse than that. It's. it's what I mean. they assume, though this will be something judges. they gave it to her liberal Austin that liked to pride itself originally on being creative and outside the box. That's now authoritarian Austin, And it's what's happened to liberal jurisdictions across really the entire western world that these are people that are. you have Kevin Oberman and other people just going on authoritarian rants. not even I mean that are indistinguishable from the rants I used to see people when they attacked AIDS victims back in the 80s. The same kind of language, the same kind of just- I mean Nazi language. That's what it is. I mean you know the and so I mean that's what Joe Rogan pointed out. I mean Rogan got into hot water because he just pointed out: you know we, when you allow this kind of breach, this is where it ends up, And if you don't stop it early, then before you know it, you're sliding downhill fast. And just so everybody knows, agree or disagree with the judge, understand the distinction imparted on anybody who repeats that statement. He was found guilty on the merits. This is a default judgment, which means that there was no, there was no evidentiary hearing on the substantive aspect of the plaintiff's calling. That's right. Thank you, Viva Free. The rest of it is on his YouTube channel. You can just type in Robert Barnes or Viva Free on YouTube and find it Very, very popular shows. Some of their stuff gets millions of views, most of them hundreds of thousands Good guys, And what they're saying is totally true. I mean, I know a lot of Democrats in Austin that are actually decent people and they didn't believe it when they saw it. They thought that was a joke. And then lawyers that have been involved are just like what You're saying, we didn't. and they're like we know you've got this and that It's sort of like this game where they go we know you've got it And you're like I don't know, I don't have that, But see, they have to have me be the bad guy. They can't actually finally, after attacking me and claiming I did this to these kids or whatever, then actually have the trial where most of what they say is true. That'll make them look like fools. So instead they're now going to try to drag me in there in front of a jury where they say he's all guilty, Just how bad is he and how much money? And they're already sending the stuff over here like how much money you got, We're going to get your money. I mean, it's just a joke. So am I worried about me? No, the country's going down. It's like I've got a sprained foot and the ship's sinking it on fire. I'm not worried about my sprained foot. The left are mad dogs. The engineers at BioProse are very excited to announce a major expansion of new products into the retail consumer market. Since their rollout of their first product almost a year ago, they come out with four new products: Biodrain Pro, Biorv Pro, Biomarine Pro and Biorporta Pro. For decades, oil companies and other major chemical corporations have been using patented, naturally occurring, specially bred bacteria to eat oil spills and other toxic waste disasters. That's how powerful these naturally occurring microbes are. The BioProse system is light years better than traditional enzymes that only work once These bacteria begin to breed and live in your septic tank. And now it's available for the general public's use for the first time on the retail market, exclusively available at TheBioProsecom. Because of the globalist reset, infowars, listeners and viewers know a lot of our best selling products have been sold out, in some cases for up to a year. Body's ultimate turmeric formula with 95%, or humanoid, has been sold out for almost five months because, again, the high-quality turmeric and the concentration process is very, very expensive and time-consuming And with the supply chain breakdowns and all the rest of the problems, we've been unable to get it. But we finally got a shipment in and it's 40% off. It is the secret weapon when it comes to your immune system, when it comes to antioxidants, when it comes to your joints, when it comes to your whole body. People absolutely love Body's ultimate turmeric formula. Incredible amounts of five-star reviews at infowarsstorecom And it's back in stock at infowarsstorecom and it funds the Infowar- a true 360 win. Body's ultimate turmeric formula back in stock at infowarsstorecom for a limited time. Welcome back. ladies and gentlemen, Final segment I'm hosting and then Jay Dyer, one of the smartest people I know and definitely the most up-to-date informed on new documents and global statements, is going to take over in the next 54 minutes. So he takes over about five minutes for the next 54 minutes And I've got a question. I'm going to ask him now because I know he's already on the Skype waiting to come on. We can punch him up, if you want, here in a moment. I wanted to answer this just out of my own selfishness. Do you think, Jay- and I know you're listening now- just to answer later whatever you want in the next hour? And it's a big question. Maybe you want to come back next week on my main show and answer it. But can it be turned around? once they've initiated the depopulation, once it's confirmed that this was a bio-weapon, that they weren't just doing a test, they're moving forward with societal world collapse. they've now come out with the World ID, the carbon tax. they're admitting: hey, we're doing this for the earth. COVID was just the excuse for the shutdown of the human system. Can we get their own minions to stand up and say no, Is there any way out of this? Because I know we can trust in those that help themselves and trust in God, but also row away from the rocks, as Hunter Ness Thompson said. So I trust in God and I also trust a lot of people to stand up and fight back, But it's just a really big question of can, even if Klaus Schwab and Bill Gates and their controllers got arrested. what they've initiated now is just so psychotic, where it's admitted that they've created a bio-weapon that kills 80% of humans at Wuhan, that they stole out of the Canadian lab and that Bill Gates has control of. I mean, that's in the news And so, like Fauci and Gates have a gun to our head and Gates is the head of the G8, the head of the G8 said he really is the head of the G8. So we're living in a James Bond movie like Moon Raker folks, real end of the world for humans as we know it stuff. Jay Dyer takes over just a few minutes Separately. this is a great product and they're a huge sponsor and they're selling a lot of it, But nothing compared to what the big oil company that scientists developed, this created this, when the scientist is a listener and he has the patent and it's the famous bacteria that's natural, especially bread that eats oil, crap, anything you want, taken care of, Old shoes, I mean. but it's safe for all the tanks, safe for all the septic systems, safe for everything. It's BioSeptic Pro: a six to 12 month supply for all of your septic tanks to kill the odor, to make it last longer. It's not like the enzymes that just go away after one treatment. This lives in your septic tank, sometimes for years, but we just say six to 12 months. We're very, very proud of it. and now they've come out with four other brands of it that I'll show you here on your TV viewer. They have it for RVs, they have it for boats, they have it for ported potties and the most important one, I think, is for drains. You get drains clogged up. you call a plumber, they're reclogged in the shower or wherever you put drain O down, it doesn't work or doesn't work long enough. I dumped this because we already come out with the same powder. When we first got samples of it a couple of years ago, before we were able to even get them to bring us to consumers, and I put it into my drains that were having problems like my shower drain never had a problem again and that was over a year and a half ago. So one scoop down my shower drain and then it just went in there and just lives in there and eats everything up in there- the hair and the skin particles and the soap and all the garbage. So I love the BioPros pipes and drains product. okay, It's all the same stuff, different packaging. some has this applicator, some has that applicator, one application for an RVs, one size. one application for drains, another one application for a septic tank. but BioDrainPro, I think, is just your best bang for the buck and you can buy any of this- it's all the same stuff- and put it in the drain. this just gives the directions on that package for how you do it. that's why it has different packaging: BioSepticPro, BioMarinePro, BioDrainPro, BioRVPro, BioPortapottyPro. all at the great website thebioproscom, thebioproscom. just one word: thebioproscom, T-H-E-B-I-O-P-R-Ocom, thebioproscom. and it's an amazing product and I'm really proud of this because I went and got the guys to do it and got the big oil company to agree and got the contracts done and got them to put in a smaller factory and I put up the money to get them to go ahead and originally make the stuff. so you get it. They use this at industrial pig farms everywhere. just eats it all up, They put this in the lakes of pig crap and they sell tons of it a day all over the world. but now it's available to you, the consumer. Infowarsstorecom is also going to be selling it soon, but now it's only available at thebioproscom. J Dyer takes over in 60 seconds. 40% off for a limited time at Infowarsstorecom. And Vaso Beats is selling out fast. so good for your heart, your lungs, your cardiovascular system. it creates nitrous oxide in the blood. It's a really strong concentrate as well. It's 50% off. Crill Oil is selling out fast, 40% off. Oh my God, do you think fish oil is good? This is amazing. Crill Oil: DNA Force Plus. I've extended that for a few more days. 40% off, back in stock. amazing Down and out, 50% off. It's got eight different natural compounds for deeper, cleaner sleep. It's all available at Infowarsstorecom. Welcome back to The Alex Jones Show. I got a chance to read through that. Wow, it fits very well with some other amazing documents that have come forth in the last couple weeks. That is the human augmentation: dawn of a new paradigm by the Ministry of Defense at the UK in concert with the German government, And these again, these two documents really go well together in the sense of a coordinated plan, coordinated overall agenda, And we'll see that here as we get into the actual text. This is, in my view, kind of in concert with a series of PSY OPS documents that have come out over the last- I don't know- 20 or 30 years. we could go back to famous documents like The Mine Has No Firewall. Now, if you've never read these, I highly recommend going and looking them up. They're easy to access. These are actually Army War College, Army, PSY, OPS documents that have been in the public domain for many years And most people just don't go read these things. right? It's kind of amazing to me, because you've got journalists- so-called out there who spend all their time basically doing PR and basically going after people getting on the platform, And this shows that we hear in force. people that do this kind of work are doing the real journalism. right? This is the last messages of journalism that's left, because journalists ought to be reading these kinds of things. That'll be reporting on this kind of stuff, not reporting on and using their platforms as weapons to basically get rid of everybody who dissents, so that really they're just operatives like Winston was in 1984. If you remember, in 1984, Winston's job is basically to revise history and to erase the memory of people that got deep-platformed. That's really what Winston's up to in 1984. Go watch the movie if you haven't read the book. The book's a lot better, by the way. but we're going to notice in this NATO, PSY, OPS document- Cognitive Warfare, The Battle for Your Brain- that it's actually very Orwellian. I know that's a cliche. Everybody says this over and over and over, We hear it ad nauseam and that's lost meaning. right, The notion Orwellian has lost its force. but we're going to see that as this comes to fruition it's not going to lose its force, It's going to hit us square in the head. So I mentioned the documents like The Mind Has No Firewall. There's another document I recommend: Psy War to Mind War by Michael Aquino. the famous Satanist who recently passed away, wrote a key document about the US Army's psychological warfare operations. That doctrine of the Army's warfare was again written by a famous Satanist. Another text that you should know is Silent Weapons for Quiet Wars and that deals with kind of covert warfare, non-lethal weapons, this kind of stuff, silent EMF, e-left-side technology, which also is mentioned, by the way, in the other documents I listed. So maybe in the future we'll get into those. we'll get into this NATO document which just recently leaked, and this is in concert with other documents and leaks that have been relevant and related to NATO in the last couple of years, namely the integrity leaks, where we saw that western UK media, that the military, the deep state of the UK was involved in a lot of PsyOps, a lot of going online, whole brigades, brigade 77 out of the UK, which is basically intent on attacking people questioning the COVID story. And then German intelligence. there was a report that came out that German intelligence was going to target people to question the KUFID narrative. If you questioned it, you're going to have PsyOps people tracking you and watching you. And we saw Biden a few months ago say the exact same thing: that Homeland Security and foreign contractors should be basically pimped this out to foreign contractors to track Americans. But since it's illegal for Americans to track Americans supposedly, even though they do that well, they'll just hire some foreign entity, some private entity in another country to do it. And all of that has come out in the last few months And again particularly related to what they call disinformation about the KUF narrative, which, in other words, just means truth about what's going on right. So shut down a track that is sent from the top down via these PsyOps officers and online SOC accounts and various techniques. Well, what are those techniques? Let's get into this NATO document, Western governments and the NATO military alliance are developing tactics of what are called cognitive warfare. We'll get into what that is here in a moment. Using the faux threats of China and Russia as the bad guy to justify waging a battle for your brain in the human domain- And this is ultimately as it says in the document- you make everyone a weapon, And that's relevant because it reminds me of what's in the UK transhumanist ministry of defense document, which says that humans are actually no longer. you know, the way we used to be described in the white papers was as human resources cattle. right Now we are potential walking platforms, tech platforms. You're basically a little Wi-Fi emitter and receiver in potentia to be turned into that so they can actually tune into your signals And they want to use signals, basically signals warfare, EMF, ELF, ELF- probably the 5 and 6G material, according to Klaus. that's what it's going to be right to basically resonate with what's in your body. I suspect that that's what's going on with the various stabbies: that what's in the stabbies is the, you know, the graphene, the various nanotech materials which do relate to the tracking and tracing. Now they do this stupid game. play this game where they say you can't fit a microchip into a syringe. There's no microchip in the syringe, No, it's just smart blood. It's just a nanotech technology that is going to be tracking you and keeping up with you and taking care of your health via your blood. And if you missed it, by the way, this last week I covered in depth James Bond And, if you recall, inspector, there was a specific scene, inspector, where James Bond goes under. you know he's in the underground base and he's talking to Q and Q references the smart blood that they've injected into Bond to take care of his health, to make sure he's doing well and make sure he's in the field and he's not hurt. The smart blood can track and trace and tell his heart rate, et cetera. That's exactly what's in the CBS report, the 60 minutes report from a couple months ago, where they did an interview with the people from DARPA talking about nanotech in your blood. That's what's in. by the way, it's going to be discussed in this NATO document. That's what's in the UK Ministry of Defense document- is that they're going to, under the guise of humans, as human platforms mandate. the UK Ministry of Defense document says they will mandate it, Just like all the mandates that we've heard in the last couple of years. it's not law, it's just mandate. The government's just going to say: you got to do this. It says that human platforms will be mandated to be chipped, to be tracked and traced. They're going to invade your biology. That's exactly what Klaus says. So look between NATO's documents, between the Psi House documents from 20 years ago of Michael Aquino, which talks about EMF, ELF, frequencies, right and geoengineering, the atmosphere that's actually in the footnotes of his mind war to Psi War, Psi War to Mind War. excuse me, There's a coordinated plan. These are not disparate entities that don't know what the other arm is saying. you're doing At this level. the plan is coordinated And that's why they all say the same thing. And that's why they all say what the global elite of the last 50 years have said in the last 100 years- right, I've covered 50 plus of their books, And they all say the same thing. Now they might differ on the minutiae of how to get this agenda done, but the plan is the same across the board. And so I get on here and I read all these documents for you. I'm the nerd that does your homework for you. I do your homework, right, You come to me, I'm the Chad nerd in class that does your homework. And if you don't pay me, right, You owe me, You owe me, You owe me your tater tots. If you don't pay me and tater tots, you're going to get beat up after recess, right? So I do your homework for you, but you better pay me for doing homework. And so let's take these tater tot nuggets of truth here and put them in your pocket for later on, right? Because you got to know this stuff. You got to know this information. Platformed humans. Humans are the platforms by which psychological warfare can be conducted to make humans themselves weaponized. Now, this document focuses on the psychological warfare component. The UK document focuses on the tech side of it. right, The DARPA, transhumanist stuff. But what do they want to do when they make us into platforms? Well, they want to change the way that we think. You think okay. well, isn't that what you know social engineering startups does? It changes the way we think. No, no, Changing the way you think, as the document says, by changing the brain itself. Exactly what Klaus said: We're going to get in your biology, We're going to get in your head, literally in your head, through implantables, through neural link, through all of these kinds of things which are coming, Don't go anywhere. Stay right there. What if you could cut your heating bills this winter with your existing wood-burning fireplace and not spend thousands doing it? You can with Great Wall of Fire fireplace grates. Our US patented, made in America Wall of Fire grates increase fireplace efficiency, eliminate fireplace smoke problems and come with a 30-day money-back guarantee. See our grates in action and get free shipping from walloffirecom or call 800-274-7364,. fireplace heat without fireplace smoke, walloffirecom. Hey, everybody Confused about staying healthy in a crazy COVID culture- Me too. But listen, after all the research, all the conflicting studies, after all the squabbling, there's one thing almost everyone agrees on. It's that immune system health can literally be the difference between life and death. You probably already believe that. I certainly do. So. here's the thing I wanted: to get past the craziness and find out which plant-based substances actually have studies that demonstrate some efficacy in immune support. Now you'll have to sign a waiver, but you can check out what I've discovered at strongerdefensecom. No cures or treatments there. Instead, little-known but shocking immune system research and a breakthrough immune support product based on that research called Immune 10x. And the best part, You can go to the Stronger Defense website right now and claim your own supply of Immune 10x without paying anything today- Crazy right. Learn more about this unusual limited-time offer at strongerdefensecom. That's strongerdefensecom. Hi, I'm Dan Pilla. I started fighting the IRS over 40 years ago when they tried to seize my mother's house. I sued the IRS in one. I beat the IRS then and I've been beating them ever since. I wrote the book on tax debt settlement and I've helped thousands of people deal with tax problems they thought might never be solved. I can help you too. If you owe taxes you can't pay. don't wait another day. There's no such thing as a hopeless tax case. Call 800-34-NO-TAX or go to my website, danpillacom. That's danpillacom. danpillacom. I'm taking this message on the morning of Tuesday, October 19th 2021, and I've got some great news to report to the listeners. For at least one week, we're going to be able to run a sale with Bobby E's ultimate turmeric formula that just got back in stock after being sold out almost five months because of supply chain breakdowns. It has a 95% curcuminoid level. Most of the turmeric supplements have a 5% to 10% curcuminoid level. Our leading competitor has a 75% curcuminoid level. This is a special proprietary concentrate. It is so good for information for your immune system. It's an antioxidant for your whole body. It's documented. It's amazing. Everybody knows that turmeric is an incredible thing that God created and bodies is the strongest and best You're going to find. and it's back in stock and it funds the InfoWare: 40% off for a limited time. That goes back to regular price right now, InfoWareStorecom. We're running this special for one week. I'm sitting here- It's in the early morning hours and I'm looking at mainstream news reporting on the fact that even the controlled revolving door FDA has come out and said that the Moderna and Pfizer shots need to be held up and not authorized for children because in studies they did on children it caused myocarditis, That's, heart swelling and heart attacks. And then I noticed that even though this is even in the Associated Press, it's not getting any circulation, It's not on the national news and it's very hard to even find on places like Instagram or Twitter. It's just crazy. And then Fauci was on TV just yesterday saying there's no damage from the vaccines. It doesn't hurt anybody. You're a conspiracy theorist if you say it. It's just crazy. And then we have all the scientists who, over a year ago, came out and said these vaccines are going to cause heart problems and they gave the exact reasons why, and now it happened. That's why InfoWare is on air, Because if we weren't on air, they'd get away with even more of this crap. This is just insane. These people are killers. You're listening to the Alex Jones Show. Welcome back to the Alex Jones Show. I'm your guest host, Jay Dyer, of Jay's Analysis. We're talking about the NATO Psychological Warfare document that has appeared online that a lot of people are making a big deal about. And it should be a big deal because it's again one of a long train of psychological warfare documents that explain and demonstrate exactly how the system at a high level works And to really understand the overall global league plan. there's no way to do it other than to go into these documents themselves, Other than going into the writings of the elite over the last 100, 200 years. And in this document, this white paper, we have not so much the tech angle- although it does conclude with a lot of tech plans and DARPA plans- it is NATO's attitude towards cognitive warfare, the new way of doing warfare online, And this includes the alteration, not just the thinking processes, but the changing of the brain itself, the actual biological right human being converted into a new type of being. It goes on to talk about our new plan. right is to continue the notion of full spectrum dominance and hybrid warfare. If you don't know what hybrid warfare, you can go to my channel. I did an interview a couple of years ago with a prominent analyst named Andrew Karibco And we did a whole interview on his book about hybrid warfare, which gives a detailed account of what this is. in order to understand this NATO mindset, And as you go through this document, we see that this includes self-declared adversaries attacking through economic warfare, attacking through cyber warfare, information warfare and psychological warfare. And now the new added element: hacking the individual by exploiting the vulnerabilities of the human brain. And again it reminds me of the mind has no firewall? document from 20 or so years ago which is basically saying the same types of thing from the Army War College, if I recall, And it says that until recently, NATO had only viewed warfare as air, land, sea, space and cyber, And now the new domain is the human domain of the mind. Now, this doesn't mean they never knew about Info War, Of course. they did. Various governments and power blocks. they do Info War online all the time. I mean, we're watching Info Wars right now. We're participating in that from the vantage point of truth and the vantage point of what is God-centered, right, What really ought to be the worldview of the paradigm, as opposed to tyranny, as opposed to globalism, as opposed to technocracy. This new form of warfare, it says, with this fifth domain, is defined by cognitive warfare, which seeks to make everyone a weapon. Now, why would they want to make everyone a weapon, including their domestic population? And it says: well, I'm not joking. It actually says because you might actually be an enemy without knowing it. You might actually be an asymptomatic carrier without knowing it. No one else knows this. but trust us, this gadget that we've cooked like Theranos, this PCR, oh, this tells you that you're carrying this, even if you don't know that right, It's a scam. basically, And it's basically what I've said for a long time, is that all the techniques of psychological warfare and manipulation out of wartime eventually get turned on the domestic population. When you get a degenerate, corrupt elite, an oligarchy that runs your country or runs the western world or runs what's basically coming into fruition, they take that that they use during the two world wars, all the research, all the psychological warfare and the Cold War, and they turn it on the population domestically, Because it's not a battle of nation states at the highest level. It's an international elite that wants to destroy family, nation, God, all of that right, All those older firewalls that would keep them from having total control. And in fact, this document is actually about total control: mastering the human domain. They even referenced this later on And, if you recall, that was a Pentagon thing that was mentioned, I think back at the time of Jade Helm, right 8, 10 years ago, when all the Jade Helm style was going on, you had reference to the document that came out: mastering the human domain. If I'm going for memory, that was an Air Force document that dealt with every area of life being controlled. That's exactly what this is. So it's basically the same thing, right? Cognitive warfare. So the brain is the battlefield of the 21st century. Humans are the contested domain and future conflicts will likely occur amongst people, digitally first and physically thereafter, in proximity to the hubs of political and economic power. The vulnerability is precisely the human mind. So how is the human mind vulnerable? Well, it says that what has to happen here is that we're going to have to weaponize cognitive warfare to the extent that we don't just go after or target individuals in the sense of those who might pose a threat. And who poses the threat? Well, it's their determination and it's anybody who might be unknowingly susceptible to foreign disinformation. So they're just going to say: well, we've determined you're a Russian bot. Oh, we've determined that you are a foreign asset. Well, what's the evidence? Well, because you're saying true things. We saw this basically in the last four years of Russia. The whole Russiagate thing is basically an example of this, right? Well, there's not actually evidence that you're a foreign agent, but we're just going to say that you are because you're saying things that are true and damage the existing power structure. And they say that we're going to have to weaponize social sciences along with academics. How long have I been telling you that the key enemy, the worst human beings in America, are the academics, Because they are the ones that foster, as the so-called intellectual class, all the baloney upon the last few generations of your offspring. When you send your offspring to these state universities, they're there to be brainwashed by these neoliberal Marxists. I know that doesn't make sense. How can you have a neoliberal Marxist? But that's what they are. They're Marxist professors. I've dealt with them for 10 years. They are the worst people out there, And that's who is out there fomenting their change agents- right, You've heard this terminology. And some of them are dumb enough to believe Marxism And some of them don't even believe it or don't believe that the socialism, the collective, whatever they're promoting. And some of them are also so-called right-wing libertarians. So I'm not just going after so-called communists. The intellectual class is just bereft of any virtue. They're all basically there to destroy the existing structure, implode from within. And this document is actually saying we're going to have to work with weaponized academia. I mean, they've already weaponized academia for decades, right, I mean it was the OSS that actually brought over the Frankfurt School of Critical Theorists. I mean this is Foreign Affairs Magazine and the books written on. this is well-known, right. And Bertrand Russell, Rockefeller Foundation. they are the ones that said: let's bring the Marxist Critical Theorists over to the West to weaponize academia. So this is not new. This has been going on for a long time. We also, it says, must weaponize human sciences to develop this cognitive warfare capacity. This results in what they call the militarization of brain science. Thus, NATO's development of cognitive warfare is the militarization of every area of society, the mastering of the human domain, which includes the human mind. Then it goes on to say that if anyone disagrees with this, you just say that they are part of a fifth column and that they're foreign agents. It doesn't matter if it's true, just say it. Just say: oh, are you saying anything true? Oh, you must be a foreign asset, You must be a foreign agent. And this is again part of the hybrid warfare document, which is a technology of social engineering, social control, And they actually give one of the examples it's given here is the Canadian military working with NATO to use psychological warfare to scare the crap out of the Canadian civilians in the last KUFID pandemic- nonsense That was all just hyped up And we've been again. Alex was talking about this all week And this document is basically pointing out that this is a Canadian psychological warfare operation And this plan of cognitive warfare is what they were doing, what was going on there. So this is when you see the media rolling out their lives. it's this, it's cognitive warfare. This is J Dyer, this is Alex Jones. Don't go anywhere, Stay where you are. You know listeners call into the cell when they thank me and it makes me feel pathetic because I sit there and I beg you for support constantly, for prayer, for financial support and for word of mouth, And we're all in this together And it gets old having to come to you and say, hey, I got great products. please buy them or we won't be here on air. But it's true, We're the only media organization in the United States that promotes liberty at this level, that is not beholden to big corporate sponsors, And they've harassed and almost shut down everybody else. They crippled all the other groups And we're still here And as this whole new world order comes out in the open, our credibility's going up. That's why we've got to be taken off air. That's why America has got to be taken down. You can't have all these other nations enslaved and America's still quasi-free. You can't have- Info Wars has been proven right- being on air with all the craziness that's about to unfold, Because if you think stuff's bad now, just get ready. So thank you all And get an infowarstorecom. Get some great 2020 election shirts. Supplements them so much more. They're wonderful products And they support the Info War. Thank you. If you only knew the power of the dark side, join Bill Gates And together we will defeat humanity. Then our gods will reward us with eternal life. That's basically the ethos of the globalists: They must first play God, They must first prove that they are the fittest in their social Darwinistic system. And in a way they're right If we let them lie to us and dumb us down and poison us and destroy our children's futures- and the evidence is overwhelming and out in the open- we really deserve what's happened to us. So I ask you now: are you going to step up and expose the new order even more? I know I'm pledging to step up and redouble my efforts. The front lines of the fight is infowarscom. All viewers and all listeners tell everybody they know about the show, because people are ready to wake up and ready to hear the truth. So we've got an information warfare of the enemy and trying to stop their agenda. And we've also got to get personally prepared, And one of the number one things to do is high quality storeable food. We've got the best food ready to ship at very affordable prices at infowarstorecom. So whether it's a month or a six month or a year supply or specialty diets, it's ready to ship right now. Lock your orders in before food prices go up and before there are long lines and waits, Because, believe me, serious times are coming. Get ready at infowarstorecom, And so the information we cover exposes their evil works and sabotages their globalist takeover, And we're having an incredible effect thanks to your support and your word of mouth. But it's also important to take care of our bodies themselves. with high quality water filtration at infowarstorecom And with amazing supplements, many of which that just came back in stock like bodies ultimate turmeric formula- now 40% off for a limited time at infowarstorecom. So let's fight the info war but also take care of our bodies. You're listening to the Alex Jones show. Welcome back to the Alex Jones show. This is Jay Dyer of Jay's Analysis, And we're getting into the NATO PsyOps document. We're dissecting it point by point, And we just covered the section where it mentions the parallel and cooperative operations with the Canadian military and using these kinds of techniques to scare the Canadian citizenship into the stabbies. In fact, it even mentions the challenges and the risk, the rewards- If you come, get a stabby, we'll give you cash- this kind of stuff. These were ideas that were invented in this PsyOps cuterie. As we move on, it talks about the fact that what really has to be changed here is not just the human mind, but human action by changing the human brain. It says that we're going to have to use cognitive warfare and other techniques, such as cognitive infiltration, to sow dissonance, to instigate conflicts, polarize opinions and radicalize. Now, if you remember, Cass Sunstein wrote a paper many years ago about cognitive infiltration. I actually read that whole paper And, oddly enough, it was a philosophy paper- That's kind of my field, So I didn't expect it to be what it was- And he basically just goes into how philosophy and the worldview warfare that philosophy can teach. PsyOps is crucial to understanding how to disrupt all of the truth movements, And one of the things he said would be key was to infiltrate, polarize and come up with fake conspiracy. And this is a technique that we've seen the system using for decades: disinformation- And now we even see the late night TV hosts- right, They even come on and say that disinformation is what all of the people who put out truth are right. The comedy so-called hosts that are making fun of Alex talking about COVID and ivermectin and all that. That's all disinformation. So what they typically do is just gaslight and just lie and just continue to lie, so much so that people are just disoriented and they can no longer tell truth from falsehood. The whole society then becomes based on lies, And that's actually a powerful technique of psychological warfare. So it goes on to say that by disrupting and infiltrating all of the groups that oppose NATOs, which is just a criminal organization, basically. So, basically, anyone who disagrees with NATO is disinformation right, which is ridiculous. because you just you have to wonder: do all the people who participate in this- you've got all these people on here, like these military people that are sitting around in this Zoom call, participating in this discussion and panel- do they actually believe this? How do people think that what they're promoting is going to benefit them, right? I mean, these people, many of them, not all of them, but many of them- have children. right Now, we know the upper crust of the initiates, the inner party at the top. they don't have children and they don't want children, right? But the people who are the engines and fosters of this system, many of them have children, And I just don't understand if, like, do they think that their children are actually going to be exempted from mandatory chipping? I mean, the UK transhumanist document says: everybody's going to be chipped, Everyone will have their biology invaded to become synthetic, silicon-based life forms. I'm not joking, That's what it says. Now you could debate whether you think that's going to actually happen or how far they're going to get with that, but that's their plan And it's a bond villain, maniacal, mad scientist level crazy plan, right, It's pinky in the brain level, shit, right, Oops, excuse me. So, as we get through this document, it goes on to say that the cognitive warfare this new domain is, it deals with ways to actually harm the brain itself. So it goes beyond just the notion of again influencing and changing your thought processes. It's the actual physical brain itself and the neurons that have to be altered and changed. It goes on to say that the in-house think tank of NATO's research here one of the hottest topics- which is, by the way, situated in the US, So this is not a Canadian thing or Euro thing, This is actually all in-house in at US military bases. It says that this cognitive warfare must first of all focus on information war and changing the brain, ultimately not just through the information that comes in, but the alteration of the brain itself. It goes on to say that cognitive warfare involves the alteration of the brain through nanotechnology. So actually nanotech, it says, is going to be key to the art of using technology to alter the human targets themselves- And this includes nanotech, biotech, infotech and all the machinations of cognitive science- to alter the very brain itself so that the thought processes are altered, so that humans don't probably do things like critical thinking. I mean, that's what presumably they're talking about here. They don't want people who are critically thinking. They want people who are just drones that basically emit the signal that the system puts out. And I was just reminded of that movie, the cell right. If you've seen this, you'll know what I'm talking about. If you haven't seen it, I recommend going and watching it. It's a Stephen King story that they made into a movie in 2016.. It's got Samuel L Jackson and John Q Zay. Look at the big brains on Brad right 2016 cell, not the old 2002 or 2003 cell with J Lo and Vince Vaughn. That's also a Stephen King story, but this one is about the fact that people are being mutated into becoming cell receptors and that the cell signals kind of like Kingsman- if you saw the Kingsman, similar type of plot right In this one, it's this basically cellular signal that's emitted to influence people's brain patterns and brain signals And people just start losing it right, They start going crazy And, as you can imagine, it's a sort of dystopian walking dead apocalypse type story. But it's relevant because that's kind of what's in all of these documents. It's what they're talking about with altering people through the signals. Again, interesting that Samuel L Jackson was in Kingsman, which is basically the same plot, right? If you remember? in Kingsman he's the maniacal malthusian villain who wants to use the SIM cards and the cell signals to disrupt and turn everybody into zombies and then basically depopulate. And he's got a breakaway civilization, right. And if you want to go deeper into that breakaway civilization, I just did a three hour talk on my YouTube channel where I got into the actual white papers and documents report from Iron Mountain, Continutive Government, all of these rank corporation things that actually do discuss the possibility of a breakaway civilization of the elite, which we see in Moonraker, which we see in movies like Sky Captain and The World of Tomorrow, where a malthusian villain wants to depopulate and reseed the planet with his offspring. I mean, I remember because Alex would always talk about in the 80s and 90s, there was these old documents that would mention the possibility of the matrix and this kind of stuff. So I wouldn't found those documents. I put them in my first book And I found another one too, where back in the 90s they were talking about the implementation of microchips. I think it's an Air Force document in the 90s that talks about how the future of warfare will involve what they were experimenting with at that time in the 90s of microchips relaying to satellites, relaying to ground-based computers, So basically, eye in the sky and then monitoring and tracking all of the troops in the warfare scenarios, which, again, the warfare scenarios are the test bed for what they then roll out 10, 20 years later on the domestic population. That's what's so crucial to understand is that things like Vietnam War- and again, I did a whole hour on here with you guys about how they roll out the warfare- the tech from Vietnam 20, 30 years later, which was pioneering drone stuff- right, Vietnam was the first to use UAV, unarmed to unmanned aerial vehicles and drones. That was first done in Vietnam. This is covered in Andy Jacobson's DARPA book- the whole history of DARPA- right, Everything that's in this document is really what DARPA has rolled out as the R&D arm of the deep state. I mean the very Internet that we're using right now. that's DARPA ARPA net. That's what. that is right. It was a wartime cryptography, NSA Cold War era information relay that they rolled out on the public. I mean, the Internet has a lot of good things. I'm not saying it's bad. We're all on the Internet, We're all using it, But remember that it comes out of military psyopsis and wartime, And so it says it notes in this document. it says we're going to have to change the way people think to make sure that they don't- basically they don't think It's not what we think, but change the way we think. This reminds me of the recent articles: Don't do your own research, Don't go and study on your own. Don't go down the rabbit hole. the New York Times said. It's basically that going this right, Don't go anywhere, We'll be right back. You're working on a Thursday night in mid-April 2021.. And I just want to say something. I am so blessed and honored to work with this incredible crew that has come together over the years. It is truly an answer to prayer And I am so blessed and thankful for all of you, the listeners of this show. I want you to know that I love you and I appreciate you. Whether you are old, whether you are Hispanic, white, black, it doesn't matter. You got red blood. You love freedom and justice, And if you love our innocent children. we are brothers and sisters together And it has just been an incredible experience to work with you over the years And, as crazier things are, I want to keep working under the future. But again, that's really up to you and up to God. So, please, I hope God works through you and puts a message in your heart to support us, But again, that's up to you and your relationship with God. I just want to thank you all for the years of support you've given us and what you've done and just ask you again to pray to God and ask what God's vision is for you And hopefully God will touch your heart to continue to support InfoHorse. God bless, Back in stock. down and out. liquid sleep support. It's been out of stock for a while. It's one of three sleep aids we have at InfoHorseStorecom. This one has been very popular. It's sold off the shelves. It's back in stock. down and out. liquid sleep support. This is probably the strongest sleep aid that we have. I would say Knockout, rocket rest, both great. comes in pill form. This is the liquid tincture and I think this is probably the most powerful one. Survival Shield X2, nascent iodine. This is, if you haven't done an iodine challenge. yet if you haven't done the iodine challenge, what are you waiting for? now is the time. Super male and super female vitality, Living Defense Plus and the organic greens fiber caps. We have a limited supply of these right now, but we want to sell them all out so we can order a new batch. It was very popular, The organic greens fiber caps- But we have all kinds of other great supplements that are great for so many different things. Take advantage of those. What are champions made of? Here's a man who can show you October 19th 2021 to let all of our great radio and TV listeners know that bodies ultimate turmeric formula that's been sold out for a long time is back in stock, with a 95% humanoid level. that's so good for inflammation and more for 40% off for a limited time that it goes back to regular price in one week. that's bodies ultimate turmeric formula back in stock. 40% off for a limited time at m4storecom. and vaso beats is selling out fast. so good for your heart, your lungs, cardio vascular system creates nitrous oxide in the blood. it's a really strong concentrate as well. it's 50% off. krill oil- selling out fast, 40% off. oh, my god, you think fish rolls good, this is amazing: krill oil, DNA force plus. I've extended that for a few more days. 40% off, back in stock. amazing down and out 50% off. it's got eight different natural compounds for deeper, cleaner sleep. it's all available at m4storecom. you're listening to the alex jones show. welcome back to the alex jones show. this is your guest host, Jay Dyer of jays. now someone to remind you to go to the info or store and support this spearhead of the Liberty movement, support this true remnant of journalism and media here with alex- and you know alex has done so much over the years to wake people up and we definitely want- and this is a crucial time for info wars- to be here, for alex to be here, because it's at that tipping point where we really could continue to just explode and have mega, mega, mega mass awakening. we're already starting to see a mass awakening. so go to the info or store, get those products. I see a lot of, a lot of soy out there in terms of the, the male region, a lot of soy boys that have lost mojo. you know you got to have mojo to get you know a mate and to have offspring, and a big part of the globally plan is no offspring. no offspring for you, no. no, you have to be sterile. you have to go live in a coom pod, basically, where you just watch VR porn all day right. no, we don't want to do that. we want to be actual men. we want to have, you know, edgy masculinity. we don't want to be soy males. so a lot of the products in the info or store can help you with that and I want to encourage you to go there. yes, we don't want to be that dude. there's too many of that dude out there. now, I was getting into the movies and themes of the railway civilization, the Malthusian plan of moon raker and skycap in the world of tomorrow and you know all these various. there's so many movies that have this plot right, so many novels, so many stories, so many TV shows that you can't really list them. I actually did list them. by the way, if you go to my YouTube channel, you can watch that recent video talk that I did yesterday, a couple days ago, on the breakaway civilization, the Psyop plan and how they want to have this project Noah, but basically to the elite- will go off somewhere else and you think, oh, that's crazy, that's just fiction. really, did you see what MIT, Bill Gates and Jeffrey Epstein had planned, where that was actually. the plan was to experiment with reseeding and having basically their own harem of a future race. I'm not joking, that sounds crazy. that was in the New York Times. so that was a. an Epstein plan was to try to do something Hugo Drax level like that and, as you know, last week we covered no time to die in death. where I went into the history of the in Fleming, I went into all of his Psyops and wartime operations and wouldn't you know what? what was in Fleming? a high level, oh, Psyops. exactly exactly what we're looking at today. and if we just have basic- it's not like we have to get a PhD in Psyops to decode this stuff- I mean, if we just have basic critical thinking, if we know basic logical fallacies, we're not gonna fall into being duped by this nonsense, right. we're not gonna fall into the idea of going and getting a stabby to get a free donut, right, and that's the. that's what we're talking to. this is the kind of BS they come up with. is these lame sales pitches. well, maybe if we give everybody donuts, they'll go get booster shots and it worked. amazing. I can, I can imagine being that stupid as to go get an experimental vaccine- it's not a vaccine- gene therapy for a freaking donut, and those donuts aren't even any good. so it goes on to say that what I think the document is talking about with the alteration of the brain is actually the chemicals, the bio warfare, etc. that will alter the brain processes. right, I mean, everybody knows that chemicals can basically damage your brain. right, you can become a slow boy, basically, if you're exposed to mercury or any of these other toxic chemicals. right, I'm actually working a paint store, so I'm probably a slow boy from the chemicals that I was around. I don't even know. but this says that we're gonna have to change the brain and I think this is probably talking about shutting off critical thinking faculty. right now, there was that video that's gone around for years- it's 15 years old- where it appears to be a Pentagon debriefing. talk about stabbies. right, that can shut off various areas of the brain, particularly relating to higher cognitive faculties and theology and religious experiences. right now, again, I can't prove that that video is real if you go and look. even the fact checkers like the, the Snopes and the Reuters that they don't know if it's real or not, nobody actually knows. now it was redone as this fake thing with as claiming it was Bill Gates, which obviously it's not Bill Gates up there don't know who it is- but to me it looks like a real thing, a real discussion. and whether I know that video is real or not, it doesn't matter, because I know that DARPA and I know that all these white papers discuss that that's what they're after. right, I can give you the actual white papers that talk about those kinds of things targeting specific areas of the brain with this nanotech, with these injections or whatever, with these poisons basically. and so I don't have to know if that video is real or not. the document goes on to say that we have the potential, by developing new weapons, of harming the brain, the potential to engage neuroscience and technology in many different approaches to human ecology, to influence human ecology. right, and then we can very easily turn a civilian technology into a military one. so, in other words, when Silicon Valley invents the latest technology of this or that, they can just weaponize it and turn it into something that can't, that is capable of destroying their enemies and targeting their enemies, which is just the domestic population. and it literally goes on to say: well, who's the enemy here? it says potentially anyone. potentially anyone using the internet. I'm not joking. anyone using the internet and cell phones is potentially the enemy, because they can come in contact with this information, aka truth, and then they're an enemy combatant. I'm not joking. that's what this document says. and it says: well, what's our goal? total control. total control can be achieved through cognitive warfare, which has reached, which has universal reach, from starting with the individual to states and multinational organizations. it is a field of action that is global and its aim is to seize control of the human being, civilian as well as military, mastering the human domain, full spectrum dominance, total control. so you ask, well, well, what's this? what's the world orders plan? why would they? why would they put it in papers? why would they put it up there? because that's a form of psyops to tell you: call gaslighting. don't watch the movie gaslight, the movie by George Cook. or that's a movie that shows you the process of what happens on a micro scale when a psycho dude gas lights his new bride right and he drives her nuts, basically intentionally. why? well, in the movie it's spoiler alert- to get her money. she's an heiress, but for the global elite. it's to do the psyops on all of us, to basically gaslight us, to put it in, put us into a desabilize, catatonic, fear based state. that's it, just to make us all in a perpetual anxious, fear-based, anxiety-ridden, crazy population. that then turns to the system: oh please, save me, please, I'll do whatever you say, right, and then it never. it never lifts, it never goes away. right, they just. it's like a carrot on a stick, like in a cartoon, where you just keep going after the care and you never reach the carrot because it's just dangling in front of you further and further the more you go. right, that's exactly what this is, and they know that that's. the funny thing is that they actually talk about that in this document. the document goes on to say that the world here is no longer targeting a battlefield opponent. the future of the battlefield is the internet and the mind, the inner world of the mind. that's the future battlefield, and so we have to control information, control info or control the net, because that's the future of all of this and presumably also the virtual world. right, when people start linking into sky net, getting into the matrix, when they roll the matrix out, then it will be total control. right, because then they're in your body. the matrix what cloud said we will get in your body. the nanotech stabbies are them getting in your body. and so the document goes on to say the NATO sponsor study says some NATO nations have already acknowledged that neuroscientific techniques and technologies have the high potential for operational use in security, defense and intelligence. the breakthroughs in these neuroscientific methods are the usage of research findings and products to directly facilitate performance of combatants, the integration of the human machine interfaces to optimize combat and the usage of the new development of autonomous drones. biological and chemical warfare, neuro weapons, nanotech. and it says this is exactly what DARPA has been working on at the Pentagon for the last several decades. and it goes on to say DARPA is key here, DARPA is the arm of this to develop. it says the research can be utilized to mitigate aggression, foster cognitions and emotions or of passivity. remember Brzezinski's book that they could use ELF, VLF to to agitate an entire continent through the signals that they put out. that's in Brzezinski's book between two ages. or they could put out signals that calm everyone. so in the Kingsman with Samuel L Jackson, it's literally what's in Brzezinski's book between two ages, that very thing it says that it can induce morbidity, disability or suffering and neutralize all potential opponents to incur mortality. in other words, to maim and kill people. that's what they're saying. that we can use the nanotech, the, the emerging neuroscientific tech, to maim, induce, foster aggression. this is Kingsman level stuff. and then it goes on to say that the real battle here isn't again the warfare of the field. the real warfare is the psycho-cultural domain, culture war, in other words, movies, music, media, right, using those things to change people's thought processes, combined with the chemicals in the food, the water, the stabbies to change brains. you want more on that? go to my shop at my website. the COVID-19 face diaper is a symbol of subservience, a symbol of slavery, a symbol of the chains that the medical tyranny combine, controlled by the global private corporations, has put in place. it is the symbol of the permanent emergency from which we will never emerge. it is the symbol that we are diseased at. evil and bad must cover our disease, criminal faces from the light of the sun. it is the symbol of our complete and total, absolute surrender to evil. ladies and gentlemen, we are crossing the Rubicon now. the entire future destiny of humanity is upon us. claus Schwab and the unit myth. they're coming out with implantable microchips as part of the world ID and carbon taxes. things only get worse from here if we submit. they only get better if we resist and say no, non-compliance, non-compliance, non-compliance. one of the most studied and researched areas of human health and physiology is inflammation. it's associated with cancer. it's associated with joint problems, associated with viral infections, bacterial infections. it's associated with death and out of all the incredible compounds that God gave us through nature that fights inflammation and makes our lives better, turmeric is chief amongst them all and chief amongst all the turmeric products out there- his body's ultimate turmeric formula. my wife loves turmeric. she has joint pain, but just take a lot of it, the type of stuff she buys the groceries tour for to work. she started taking this instead. all we need to take one pill instead of four. why is it so good? it's not just turmeric, it's concentrated with a proprietary process. it's back in stock if you're being sold out almost five months at infowarstorecom for 40% off, but supplies are gonna sell out quick because of supply chain breakdowns and because we will not lower the quality of this product and bodies is one of our best selling products because it really does work and people love it. get yours today at infowarstorecom. you're listening to the Alex Jones show.From his Central Texas Command Center deep behind enemy lines, the information war continues. It's Alex Jones and the GCN Radio Network. Wow, we've got even more news stacked on the desk here today that needs to be covered than normal, And a normal day is a total information awareness overload. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen. I'm Alex Jones, your host. We're going to be live here for the next four hours today, as we are every weekday: 11am to 3pm Central Standard Time. We have Wayne Madsen, investigative journalist on a whole bunch of huge fronts, joining us in the second hour. Richard Reeves pops in also during the second hour. Blue Rockwell on the big theft of the 2016 election, not just from Donald Trump, but from Bernie Sanders as well. And then, of course, we have Paul Joseph Watson from England, who will be hosting the fourth hour of the Nightly News Returns this evening, seven o'clock Central Standard Time. I really need to focus in, though, not on manmade things, some- but on just the volatile universe, the ever changing universe that we live in, Because tectonic activity right now, depending on which seismologist you read or which publication you look at, but they're pretty much all lining up now agreeing that this is the most seismic activity ever recorded since they began to record globally about 100 years ago. From Yellowstone in the heart of our nation to the great ring of fire around the Pacific Ocean, things are extremely volatile right now. Huge earthquakes just all over the world yesterday and the day before that and the day before that. there are just giant earthquakes happening all over the planet, And so I almost need to carve out some time away from 2016 and the election and all the war news and the economic news in the next few days to get Stan Dayo and others on. We had Stan Dayo on three years ago and again about six months ago and he predicted that in the next year, we would see the most tectonic activity we've ever seen. He's a really smart guy. In fact, they just put on the screen for me. I didn't know. Thanks for telling me. This was just set up this morning. Stan Dayo will be on for over an hour, Always informative, on Wednesday, and he's a geologist and a lot more, but I should probably get George Norrie on. He's somebody that's really been focused on this and been predicting a lot of this because of all the expert guests he's had on And you know George has his fun shows, as he calls them, ghost to ghost around Halloween and you know some of the shows that are more in the fiction realm. but he's the guy that took that broadcast, so I don't want to go off on a jag about this. from 80% Chewbacobras and space aliens to 80% private Federal Reserve, New World Order, World Government, And so we all owe him a continued debt of gratitude. that broadcast is there and, as ever, popular, as always really informing a lot of people. But I digress down a rabbit trail with that. We're going to be getting some more guests on this week also discussing it. Now I'm not a Planet X guy, but there are a lot of big planets out in the Kuiper Belt, out past Pluto, and there is now a big one coming through the solar system which a lot of ancient societies predicted would show up about now. What I don't like is, ever since I've been on air for 20 years, people are always telling me that Planet X is imminent and it's going to destroy the earth, And then it never happens. It's a way to sell a book perennially, every single year And I just don't go there. but there are big comments, There are big planetoids, There is a big gas giant coming through. that is in mainstream media. that is in mainstream media but not really getting a lot of the attention that it deserves. So that is coming up as well. today I almost have a mustasher. What do they call those little mustaches that are under your lip? Van Dyke? I've got some black ink on my finger. I'm trendy. now I have a Van Dyke. That's really what matters. Let's come back to the next four hours and talk about different type of facial hair. Do you like it? Do you dislike it? What do you think of Van Dyke? What's it mean when a woman has a big handle bear, handle bear mustach? she's a handle bear. See, I'm inventing new terms here. Nearly 40 volcanoes are currently erupting across the world, and scientists warn that the current conditions could trigger at least four record-breaking earthquakes. The earthquakes that just hit recently have left over 270 dead in Ecuador and over 42 dead in Japan, with massive evacuations continuing out of fear of aftershocks, And scientists say at Tokyo University estimate there's at least a 70% chance that Japan will eventually suffer from another earthquake equivalent to the Great Canto of 1923, which measured 8.9 and killed over 142,000 people. Other scientists also fear a full-blown eruption of the Yellowstone National Park volcano, which could have up to 2,000 times the power of the Mount St Helens eruption of 1980.. Some even speculate that the volcanic winter resulting from a Yellowstone eruption could devastate America's food supply and could even cool the planet 20 degrees. The volcanic ash could even blanket areas 1,000 miles away and there's already signs an eruption could happen. A few weeks ago, a river near the supervolcano started to boil and the volcano itself is blasting out even more steam than before. For more news, visit infowarscom and prismplanettv. This is Kit Daniels reporting. Please listen carefully, because I'm about to point out three things that will save you a lot of money while you get high quality products and fund the InfoWars a 360 win. Number one: when you choose auto ship before checkout, we give you 10% off on your order at infowarsorecom. Number two, you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for auto ship, because we hold back a surplus for auto ship customers. Number three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50.. Listeners have been requesting this for years, because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that you need each month. Just go to infowarsorecom, select your favorite product or products, click on auto ship and choose how often you want us to send you another order. As you know, I coined the term 360 win and with the new auto ship feature at infowarslifecom, this is a sure win. 10% off on auto ship- Win, win, win at infowarslifecom. free shipping on orders above $50, and all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for auto ship. Anthony Goodsharty here with an InfoWars health news update with Alex Jones. That's right, Anthony. one of our top selling products is Brainforge. It is very affordably priced at retail that we normally discount it. We've discounted from the discount 25%, but if you count it from its regular price, that's 45% discount for a limited time at infowarslifecom. There are a lot of brain boosters out there, or what's known as new tropics, but here's what separates BrainForce from the rest. Unlike some energy drinks and supplements, BrainForce uses natural brain activation ingredients like Yerba Mante extract, AlphaGPC, L-Theanine, HyperXine A, Phosphatidylserine, B12, and many others. Major nutraceutical review sites rave about this formulation and they also rave about the price. Ensure your BrainForce today at infowarslifecom and get 45% off retail. 25% off the regular sales price on BrainForce for a limited time at infowarslifecom or by calling toll-free 888-253-3139.. I have sworn upon the altar of God eternal hostility against every form of tyranny over the mind of man. I'm Thomas Jefferson. it's Alex Jones on the GCN Radio Network. It's Monday, the 18th day of April 2016.. I'm your host, Alex Jones. we're going to be here until 3 o'clock Central Standard Times today. thank you for joining us All right. obviously, there is massive election 2016 news. there is huge military news. there is incredibly important geopolitical, military and financial news that ties together. There is unprecedented leftist censorship going on around the world as well, and we're going to be breaking all of that down. today. The fate of Obama's immigration plan is in the hands of the Supreme Court. we're going to be looking at that. The State Department wants to speed up the process of bringing Syrian refugees into the United States. A new AOL poll shows nearly half of Sanders supporters might switch to Trump. there's a lot of top Democrats and others coming out saying that he'll already so corrupt that if Sanders loses, they're going to go with Trump. So I do bash Sanders supporters. I do dislike socialism and communism, but, that said, a lot of people are so anti-establishment they're going for Sanders just as a desperation move. a lot of Ron Paul supporters are supporting him, And so, regardless of what you think of Sanders. I think that's a smart move by Sanders supporters watching him be robbed, but he isn't winning by as much, or wasn't winning by as much, so it's easier to steal from him. it's a smart move to understand that Trump is also anti-establishment and that the power structure is coming after him, and so it's very, very important to get behind Donald Trump, even if you have issues with him. the fact that these globalist controllers are so scared illustrates the fact that they've already hijacked the nation and they don't like anybody talking about the fact that they've set up a lot of unfair deals that have put America at disadvantage by design to de-industrialize us and to consolidate control over our lives. And coming up, Donald Trump is said- quote: we have the video clip. I'm so happy China is upset. they have waged economic war against us and I'm glad Trump talks like that now, because I know he knows what's going on. Previously he would say that they're smarter than us, their leaders are smarter than our leaders and that we've made some really bad deals. no globalist like Henry Kissinger and the Bushes- Bush was the Bush senior- was the first ambassador to China once it opened back up. they made deals- one-sided factory deals- to pass regulations in America, prohibiting industry here and commerce here, and artificially shift it with corporate combines selectively to China as a slave plantation model labeled communism, to leverage out all competition globally. This is economic warfare and I've been hammering that for 21 years on air, because that's what it is. Globalism is economic warfare. it is a modern form of corporate colonialism, Corporate monopoly colonialism and, by the way, I've coined all these terms that are now in use. I'm not bragging. I'm just showing the power of the truth, the power of people finally hearing the truth and then historically looking at definitions and realizing that they are establishing neo feudalistic global fascism labeled as socialism and communism. at the grassroots level, The name of the game is domestication of the population, making you dependent, putting you into an artificial system so you can't survive outside of a quote: modern smart grid. that is really a AI, high tech, artificially intelligent, false creation template. that is a proto matrix type human soul destroying machine. We're going to get to all of that today. we're going to get to even foreign newspapers and even major US papers going: look, you're supposed to have voters and primaries. you've never done anything like this before. this is unprecedented and the worst part is Ted Cruz keeps talking about the popular vote landslides and voters and I talked about this two weeks ago. I said he keeps saying I've got grassroots, I've got democracy, I've got the vote and Trump's a sore loser. and Fox News and CNN won't ever say what Trump is being a sore loser about. They're now trimming Trump down folks so that people don't know exactly what's happening. But if you actually go look at what's happened in Wyoming this weekend and in Colorado and in Georgia and in Tennessee and in Arizona and Louisiana, they either steal delegates after Trump wins and give them to Ted Cruz or they just cancel it outright. and the whole world sees that and goes: wait a minute. you're trying to run a Psyop where you look at people with a straight face, a psychological operation- and you say: listen, there was never a vote, get used to it. and Previs and Curly Hewland and all of them keep going on TV smiling with Cheshire Cat- you know what eating grins laughing at you, trying to act as confident as they can Like walking in. you get home from work early. your wife is in the bed. there's no sheets. your neighbor is right there playing his day on top of your wife and he gets up naked as a J-Burt in front of you, starts putting on his pants and he says: Mr Brown, Mr Sanchez, Mr Johnson, whatever your name is, I was just helping your wife put her shoes on and she goes: that's right, honey, he was just helping, with sweat running down her folks. that's how dumb they think we are, and I hate to use an allegory or an analogy like that. it's a family show, but that's what's going on here, except it's not just cheating on you know, with your wife in front of you, they're robbing your whole future. this is 21st century fourth, fifth generation conquest. this is warfare. and Donald Trump saying this is warfare, the Chinese president, the Chinese head of trade, the Chinese censorship board, have all come out and called him Hitler. These are people with mobile execution vans that sell peaceful, not even Zen Buddhists. the Falun Gong aren't even religious. you can argue well, Buddhism isn't a religion, it's a philosophy. it's a religion, okay, and it's also a very peaceful religion historically and has a lot of tenets that I find admirable. I'm not a Buddhist, but the point is, this is one of the most peaceful groups of people there are. they're into not eating unhealthily, not drinking and exercising, and so they are perfect for organ harvesting. and you have people selling peaceful political dissidents who get caught practicing their religion- and I was pointing out that Buddhism is a religion in my view- and they say it isn't. when you get down to Falun Gong, they've trimmed it back so much that it's not even a religion. it's like an exercise, relaxation, health practice. and they are killing them on record and advertising that they quote: have fresh organs- that's how they translate it in the Chinese communist publications. and then again they take your organs on the way to the airport- so they're totally fresh, put them on ice, fly the hour flight into Tokyo and implant most of the organs right there. and there's a huge tourism, a medical tourism trade to go over there. and they have the nerve. and there's just one of the huge crimes China commits: the suicide nets, the forced abortions, the infanticide, the one child policy, on and on the 84 million killed by Mao Zedong alone, bearing his nightmare. what was his reign? He was over China, 49 until the late 70s. under him, 84 million. the Chinese government admits you guys killed, probably just under Mao, four or five times what Hitler did, three times what Stalin and Lenin did together. you are the heavyweight champion, mass murderers of world history of your own people. most of them didn't even resist you. and then you get up in the whole political correct racket and tell us Donald Trump is Hitler. and let's get down to what the Ford Foundation is really saying there. when they put that talking point out, they're saying: if you're white, you're Hitler, just like Obama said: sorry, I'm trying to appoint a white guy who's a horrible anti-gunner, even worse than Kagan, and so to my ear, in many ways I'm sorry he's white, but he's the best jurist for the job. again, the idea that white people are inherently bad- that's all they're selling- is total vulcanization. get everybody's throat, because we're bringing in hundreds of thousands of non-vetted refugees where they don't even check their IDs or passports. in many cases they won't even give the state governors their names, the state police their names for a database. the feds just turn them loose- millions of them in Europe. and he says: you got to stop everybody coming in until we start vetting them again. yeah, close the border till we turn the vetting back on. that Obama's order turned off and they spin that. I saw an article in USA Today. I saw another one this morning in CNN about why New Yorkers are rejecting Trump. yeah, that's why he's about to win by 60 points. it was like: well, this guy from Italy, who's an African, doesn't like him because he hates immigrants. Trump never says that immigrants are great, come here legally. and then it's this whole article about how hurt he is, that Trump hates him. and again that's the new titles in America of nobility. I get to be a victim, I get to be protected. I get to go around with a chip on my shoulder, disliking everyone and sovereignty, because I just listened to talking points to the media and decided to be but hurt. and it's this whole religion where people collect like baseball cards how they've been slided and how someone got in their way. and you know that's why they're not successful. people get in my way. I just go over them, around them, through them, but, frankly, a lot of times I'll be exhausted and somebody tries to block what I'm doing. I just suddenly go. oh my gosh, I just got five hours of energy. it's called the animating contest of liberty, but no, no, no. let's not worry about the cancer viruses and the vaccines, the GMOs, the human cloning that's already going on everywhere, all of the craziness, the toxic waste dumping. let's worry about Donald Trump, because the communist Chinese mass murderer, grand champions who out Hitler, Hitler by four to five times under one dictator they say so. Hello, I'm Michael Reagan. my father, president Ronald Reagan, believes so strongly in gold that in 1985 he changed gold ownership forever. today our national debt is spiraling out of control, but gold coins could be the answer. call 1-866-525-gold or go online to usmoneyreservecom to get new, never before released information about gold from the US money reserve. call 1-866-525-GOLD. Is there a difference in body armor? You bet there is quality, warranty, price. get it all from Patriot Armor. veteran owned and operated Patriot Armor plates are made in America, extensively tested, independent lab certified, come in many options and protection levels with a lifetime warranty. on our steel armor plates and Viper plate carriers lost industry leading prices starting at just $149.99,. click PatriotArmorDefensecom or call 727-280-7146,. when your life depends on it, trust no other Patriot Armor. Something shocking just happened in a Coast Guard unit in San Diego. the old guys in the unit have turned the tables and are now destroying the young bucks in head to head fitness tests. How is this even possible? Turns out, the old guys in this unit have been part of a special test group for a doctor formulated fountain of youth drink called Patriot Power Greens. Patriot Power Greens has been so effective for many of the older soldiers that it's made their achy joints, stiff muscles and lack of energy a thing in the past. Previously, this drink was only available to elite military units, but for a limited time. the creator of Patriot Power Greens has set aside a small number of free sample packs specifically for our conservative friends. But you must act fast. do the high demand for members of the Coast Guard? our supply is extremely limited right now. To claim your free samples of Patriot Power Greens, go to greens75.com. that's greens75.com, greens75.com. We use mobile devices right against our bodies every day, but growing scientific evidence has emerged showing serious health risks associated with exposure to EMF radiation emitted from these devices. The solution is Defender Shield, the most effective mobile radiation shielding ever developed. Defender Shield blocks virtually 100% of EMF radiation from cell phones, tablets and laptops and starts at just $64.99.. Buy now at DefenderShieldcom for 10% off. use promo code GCN- DefenderShieldcom. the worldwide leader in mobile radiation shielding. My dad was 59 when he collapsed from a heart attack late last year. just this past August was when we said, ah, that's it, we're out. Loved my dad, but boy was he stubborn. He hadn't been to the doctor in over 25 years. His excuse: He simply couldn't afford it. He wasn't a rich man by any means. At less than $107 per month, LibertyOnCallorg would have been the perfect alternative for my father. Don't wait. go to LibertyOnCallorg right now, for not just your sake, but for the sake of your loved ones. Again, that's LibertyOnCallorg. Water is the single most important thing your body needs, so you want to be sure it's the best for you and your family. Since 2005,, thousands have depended on Berkey purified water. The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size For incredibly delicious water. now and in an emergency, get to goberkeycom or call 877-886-3653, 877-886-3653, goberkeycom. There's nothing more enticing and intoxicating than the finest meat cooking on an open flame. Freeze-dried meat from duharviscom is US grown, 100% all-natural, with no extra fillers, Just grass-fed beef and free-range chicken, guaranteed to stay fresh and delicious. Add duharvis freeze-dried meats to your current food storage. Sell by direct from the factory, not a third party, ensuring the best price and the highest quality. See all our products at newharvestfoodscom. That's newharvestfoodscom. We could not be forgotten. we won't be left behind. our demerits will all end for a while. Trump said. I'm so happy China is upset, they have waged economic war against us. We're going to play that clip here in a moment. But first off, I want everybody out there, especially listeners we've had for 15 years, to do a huge victory lap right now, because if this information fully comes out, it will be a death blow to the New World Order corporate national security combined system that organizes terrorists, that protects terrorists, that funds and arms radical jihadists all over the world and other criminal groups and allows them to then attack, or protects them and opens the door for them to attack, or sometimes carries out the complete attack, and then the affiliate group takes the credit so that the West and the rest of the world can have whatever progress we've made towards due process and human liberty and privacy dismantled. And now the examples are completely naked. They think the public's so dumb and so illogical, totally out in the open. Europe brings in 5 million people in the last two years, mainly out of North Africa and Syria. a huge conduit of migrants, of invaders, through the Middle East is allowed into Syria, who borders Eastern Europe and Southern Europe and Turkey, and allows them to then come in and have safe harbor and safe transport into Deutschland, France and other nations. They then trans ship through the EU system to the United States and the rest of the world And they think we're so dumb when these groups start attacking, which they've done, and when they launch their huge jihad tent offensives that we know are coming in the future, civil emergency will be declared from the anniversary of the Boston bombing. The media claims that I say there was no bombing at all. I do not say that. Or they say that I claim mercenaries did it because people were wearing craft international style uniforms and punisher hats. I'm not saying craft international did that. I'm saying they were clearly there running some type of security. They knew something was coming and there was a drill going on that day, That cover for someone else to bomb it. And then it turned out the two brothers had CIA connections, The older one paid by the State Department through Georgetown University to travel undercover under a fake name to areas of southern Russia and into the stands like Chechnya And Russia, two years before the Boston bombing blew his cover. He was a boxer playboy, cool guy. He got set up. We don't know exactly what happened, But that terror attack had false flag written all over it. But regardless, they're letting these people in en masse. San Bernardino, the major Hassan shooting, Fort Hood, all of it. They keep trying to call it workplace violence. We're exposing that it's terror but pointing out who opened the door. How does the mainstream media respond? They lie about what we've said, Just like I've been saying. two months before 9-11, 15 years ago, And from the day it happened that NORAD stood down, they had drills. that day They ordered 15 of the 19 hijackers to be let in. I had the head of the embassy on months after 9-11. Mr Springman, who said they were told they were CIA and to let the hijackers in. And then the FBI tried to bust them. They were ordered to stand down And there's more to the story than that. But we have NORAD ordered to stand down. We have the FAA ordered to stand down. We have the evidence. We know it happened And the congressional commission- the 28 pages- says there was a stand down order and an order afterwards to cover up the Saudi connection. We already know the FBI was ordered to do that. It was in the news at the time. I would hold up mainstream news when this stuff came out, When the media would say, oh, Alex isn't covering C-SPAN or the Associated Press, Alex is making it up, Just like they misrepresent what Donald Trump says. And now Donald Trump comes out a few months ago and says the Saudis were involved in 9-11. and I'm going to expose the 28 pages. And all of you pushing over these years- and Congressman Walter Jones has come on probably 20 times the last four or five years trying to get his bill passed to release this is now inches away from it coming out unredacted- People say, well, there's going to be more to it than that. Yes, but this is like getting Al Capone on income tax evasion: Then you get him for everything else. Member of the mainstream media. Donald Trump suggested Saudi Arabia was behind 9-11 multiple times. Wednesday. That was two months ago. Let's go back to the date there. Scroll back up for me please. For radio listeners, you can go see this Back to the New York Daily News, February 17th. Oh, how dare him. Oh, Donald Trump was right again. And look for Donald Trump to come out and say: see, I was right, See, I told you. Oh man, Oh, Donald Trump, folks, The Sleeper Cell Patriot. That's why they're so scared of him. We're on the march, The Empire's on the run, Alex Jones and the GCN Radio Network. The day is Monday, April 18th, and here's some of the latest news. It's now known that the Colorado lawmakers who voted to scrap the state primary in fact had Cruz Delegates. Four state Republicans voted against the bill that would allow Colorado voters a chance to vote in a presidential primary, And all of them are Cruz supporters, with three of them listed as members of Cruz's Colorado leadership team, And one of them, Senator Kevin Grantam, even had the audacity to brag about Cruz's quote victory on Twitter, despite the fact that the voters did not get to pick a candidate. In other news, only 6% of people trust the mainstream media, putting the industry about equal to Congress and well below the public's view of other organizations. This lack of confidence in establishment media is fueled by an accuracy in reporting and deceptive bias. Another study revealed that only 45% of Americans over $77 million will not pay an income tax this year because they have no taxable income or they receive enough tax breaks to raise their liability. This says a lot about the current decline of the economy. You'd expect less tax revenue as more Americans leave the job market or stay underemployed at part-time jobs. For more news and reports, visit infowarscom. This is Kit Nanner's reporting. You will no longer need to endure the burning of liquid oregano on the tongue, used since before the days of the Roman Empire to support the body's natural systems and enhance overall Health. Wild crafted from the Mediterranean oregano species that experts agree is one of the most powerful and most challenging to acquire. This winter season, it's more important than ever to secure this true form of oil of oregano, Now available at infowarslifecom- simplewarslifecom. That's simplewarslifecom, or call 888-253-3139.. Hey, how you doing? Good brother, Just recently started using your products. Everything you said about them is correct. Me and my wife both use a lot of them and it's made a lot of changes in our lives here. Well, thank you, brother. it's because it also funds our operation. but doing that, I know I've got to have the highest quality. Supermail vitality was developed to activate your body's own natural processes instead of using synthetic chemicals. We did the supermail and the super female vitality. big changes, a lot of energy. we've gotten off the cheap energy drinks, energy shots. they've got a ton of money there, Sourced from powerful organic herbs harvested around the planet and then concentrated or maximum potency. They want to stun and dumb down, and energy drinks and stuff just cover that up for a while but then burn you out. in my experience, whereas stuff that gets your glands naturally going goes right to the source. So it's pretty exciting and I love it. Visit infowarslifecom today to secure your supermail, vitality and other powerful products from InfoWarslife. Hi, I'm Janet Napolitano, Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security. Homeland security begins with hometown security. It seems apparent that our citizens are staying off the streets, which may make scarring particularly difficult. even with this year's rule changes- to recap those revisions- Women are still worth 10 points more than men in all age brackets, but teenagers now rack up 40 points and toddlers under 12 now rate a big 70 points. The big score anyone any sex over 75 years old has been up to 100 points. As always, how fast you move determines how long you'll live. Resistance to tyrants is obedience to God. It's Alex Jones That intro's about four years old John Baum put it together. Remember when Homeland security ordered 3 million life-sized targets of little children and women in the shower and old people? So we simply took those news articles- well, we broke the news about it, showed the articles- if you're a radio listener, I'm describing what people just saw- and then cut it together with Death Race 2000,, the David Carradine, Sylvester Stallone and others. Man, that's a really good movie, Breaking down the future dystopia we would live in under a depopulation agenda. And, as usual, the faster you are, the longer you live. Again, not bragging, I want to give everybody hope, because there is a lot of hope there. The talking points we put out sometimes take 15 years to bear fruit, but we can directly follow the line of this audience at the very heart of 9-Eleven Truth: the demonization we went under. the misrepresentation we went under. the attacks we went under. the monetary attack we went under. I had over 120 affiliates at the time and the program director came to Ted and said: we're losing all of our affiliates. Alex's show is exploding. I was like 27 years old. He keeps saying it's an inside job and I can't get him to stop doing it and the stations are turning him off. And Ted Anderson called me and he said: I tell you what, Alex, when I first hired you, you were only on a couple of stations and so you're losing most your stations. but if you want to do that, go ahead. And I did because I knew that there were criminal elements in our government working with Saudi Arabia and Jihadist, just like they do in Syria, just like they do in Libya today and in Europe, Merkel and Aland And I knew I had to morally tell the truth. It didn't matter And people were amazed by that That my show just out of nowhere was one of the fastest growing in radio history: 27 years old. 26 years old, It was 15 years ago. I'm 42 today. I'd already been on there like four years, five years Already, paid my dues and it was exploding and it was not hard to say no and do the right thing. I mean I saw them that day on television and I heard them on CBS radio say we're going to demolition building 7, the Solomon Brothers building, And then I went on air and said they said they were going to blow it up. and then people said that I was lying. It took years for the Internet Archive to get good enough to where CNN and ABC and NBC and BBC started uploading their full coverage of 9-11 to the Internet and it was all on tape on newscasts or newscasts. We're going to blow it up. We've got the explosives inside, We're going to bring it down. And then I interviewed the emergency manager, the deputy emergency manager, and he said no, there were bombs. They told us get out and then they killed him two weeks later. I mean I'm just supposed to shut up about that. And then a lot of folks out there say Jones, why don't you cover 9-11 truth more? It's like one of these little moral scoreboard things that you know anybody out there can make themselves better than the evil Alex Jones and say Jones isn't the father of 9-11 truth, Jones isn't the progenitor of it all, Jones isn't the guy that questioned it before, on the day and after And that hammered it and made a whole bunch of films about it and wrote a book about it and had all these guests on and put on huge 9-11 events in LA with thousands of people for the first time on C-SPAN. No, no, no, He's the one covering it up, because he doesn't cover it every day. or let somebody call him up and bully him saying: have me on space beams, did it If you don't agree with me or with the government. you know all this mental illness. I haven't spent most of my time on 9-11 in five or six years because worldwide it's already well known. The 28 pages are being exposed. I knew there was a movement that would end up bringing it all out. I'd already in my bombing run imagined- like I'm a high tech or this operation is a high tech B3 bomber going mock five, loaded with bombs and I've got a bunch of cities to hit, a bunch of lies to blow And I'm going to target drop, make sure I hit target, accelerate on to the next target And while folks are back there looking at the wreckage of the enemy operation, I'm going to be six, seven, eight, nine, 10 targets up, blasting and doing maneuvers and the sand missiles you know, barely hitting us. I mean seriously, I'm talking infiltrators. you're going to get in the real world, black ops, dirty tricks, but incredible Providence, folks, incredible Providence. But my life behind the scenes is like a James Bond movie. Many times might be totally still for six months and then all hell breaks loose And I've just never seen such Providence as it all blows up in the enemy's face. It's amazing. But just know this: you deserve the credit as the listeners, the viewers, the activists. And I know you don't want credit. You want justice and liberty and freedom. But just understand: you got ridiculed for talking about 9, 11 truth. You got demonized and Fox News was saying anybody that talked about it should be arrested. You went through hell and you deserve just as much credit as we do, But at the same time, I've always been so focused on the next mission that I never get up here and celebrate the victories we've had and the amazing successes we've had together as a liberty movement, And all of you out there as activists and radio hosts and filmmakers and authors and researchers, and everything you've gone through. I salute you, from Alex Jones to you. You're my hero. That's why I don't want you calling up telling me how great I am. I've done my duty and it is very humbling to have such good people look up to me. Listen, I look up to you and we're all in this together, brothers and sisters, regardless of race, color, creed, religion- you name it. We love truth and we're standing up for justice, and history has proven, As Martin Luther King Jr said, the universe bends towards justice. There is Providence, And what people don't understand is the secret, hidden stuff taught on Oprah Winfrey, where you just magically believe something and it happens. You've got to have the infrastructure, the people, justice on your side and the will and the perseverance, and then then you can do almost anything. It's true, Look, humans envision things and then, a few decades later, their reality. We are incredible creatures made in the image of the creator, but you don't fully activate as a soul and as an intellect and as a mind and as a people until you're put through the fire and until you have stood up against evil. and every level I go up fighting evil, just more opens up and it's like the knowledge intensifies to the point of just it's just too much. It's like that Moby's song. We got to go out with it. We've got to dissolve for a music. I forget the name of the song. It's like I would stand in line for this. Yeah, There's always time and life for this extreme ways. Yeah, There's a line of the song about: you know, I had to shut my mind down, I couldn't, couldn't handle it too much and I couldn't think too little and I was basically a zombie. I forget the exact, exact words to it and that's what it comes down to. But we're changing the world right now because we have the narrative, We actually know what's going on, We know how the enemy operates, We understand their criminology, We understand what their goals are, We understand what their next moves are going to be and we've now reached a point where the enemy is still operating out in the open, thinking that we're not going to resist them or say no to their, their operations. So if I impart anything to you, it's this, because you sure teach me a lot- It's that you have incredible power. You are the engine of human liberty worldwide. And let me tell you the listeners of this broadcast, you are the front line. You are the tip of the spear. You were the eyes and ears of humanity. You're the people, for your background, your genetics, your religious experiences, your spiritual experiences, For whatever reason, you're the people in this time and place, the biggest assemblage of awakened people to the technocratic, globalist, anti-human takeover. That's why I say: look in the mirror. It's not a tagline, It's not a logo, It's not a cool saying, It's the truth. Look in the mirror because you are the resistance And the answer to their 1984 society is 1776. That's why the enemy said everything they can to dumb us down and poison us, and physically poison us with chemicals and biologicals, but also culturally poison us. Lord knows, I've been poisoned, Good Lord, But I still have my soul and my heart focused on God and I know the way out of this and I'm stumbling through this fight. but I'm telling you, Somebody who loves God and loves the truth, stumbling on their knees is a giant compared to these evil people: Greedy, self-serving and hateful. They have no empathy. They have no love of humanity, and they know we do so. they tailor their propaganda around love and the fraternity of humans together and all they're doing is trying to kill, still destroy. These people are devils, And I mean literal devils, because they've manifested themselves as devilish creatures. I saw the White House run Right Wing Watch and the White House run Media Matters this weekend and my Google Alerts saying Jones now thinks it's the end times. Ha ha ha, Laugh at me. And then you know they've got other alerts. Trump's a cook. He says Saudi Arabia was involved in 9-11.. You know they'll say something such as a cook. They say the sun's yellow at high noon and a clear sky. So they take the most obvious stuff and then they make a big joke out of it Like they're the high authority reporting on us. and my whole rant was about- even if you don't believe in God- The genetic engineering, the chimeras, the manipulation of the environment, the geoengineering, the world government phasing out of cash, the elites saying they're going to merge with machines and become gods. It was all about the fact that, boy, that sounds like the end times to me. and if they've got enough nuclear weapons to destroy the world dozens of times over and we end up having a nuclear war, which the Pentagon says we're in more danger of now than during the Cuban Missile Crisis, We could make our own Armageddon. whether the Bible's true or not, We need to have some restraint and not do this. and then I saw the restraint. How creepy is it that those organizations are admittedly run by the White House and get their talking points from them. and the White House is worried about making fun of me saying we need to not blow the earth up. That's what I mean. They all have this giggling, demonic attitude like everything's funny and nothing serious. But when they get diagnosed with cancer at 35 or 40 years old, the slacker outfit, the trendy outfit and the trendy nomenclature- it ain't going to get you out of it. And if we have a nuclear war, that's not going to. you know, be in trendy and using the proper language systems in your cult isn't going to protect you. And I'm reaching out to you as fellow humans and saying what is your problem? And I realize the problem. They can always find somebody to take that position and take that place. They can always find sociopaths and evil people that are willing to prey on their fellow humans. But it is a giant victory, It's a devastating victory that they have New York Daily News headlines How the US government covered up Saudi role in 9-11. That's a headline Secret 28 pages of 9-11 report under new scrutiny. Saudi Arabia threatens to pull 750 billion from US economy if Congress allows them to be sued for 9-11 terror attacks. How the US covered up Saudi role in 9-11.. New York Post: Saudi Arabia warns of economic fallout If Congress passes 9-11 bill. that just releases that congressional report. That Saudi Arabia holding us hostage again, threatening economic armageddon. Look at how much control we're already under with the Saudi sea. See how far down they've taken us. and the communist Chinese. They all say we can't have Trump. They're also mad at Trump because he dare talk about 9-11 truth. You see I'm going to go to break and come back and play Trump talking about the communist Chinese and how they're in economic war with us- Yes, And then with elites here that make deals with them to pass rules and laws making it impossible for us to compete. Remember that guy named Pacharya over in India who was running the UN carbon program And it turned out, his son owned the new multi-hundred million dollar coal-fired plant that was also going to have a steel mill operating off of it, And they even made a carbon deal with the last steel mill and the last coal plant in Sheffield, England. Sheffield Steel moved to India And then it came out he was getting the money for it And so he had to step down. This is literally trading and selling out, and the politicians get five, ten million dollars and you get a hundred million billion dollar plant in your country. They're selling us out so cheap. They're not making bad deals, like Trump says. They're making deals to sink this country because they're globalists. They want to bring us down. Speaking of economic warfare, shop local, Shop USA as much as you can. Nobody's perfect. Hardly anything's made here. Support local communities, Go to the farmer's market, Plant a garden- That's how we bring America back- is learning basic self-sufficiency activities. They don't want us to be able to take care of ourselves. We have a special that ends tonight. It's 25% off Brain force, the ultimate new tropic out there. for the price Probably got something better than 300 bucks. It's $22 right now. It's 45% off retail. ladies and gentlemen, 25% off its regular discount. It's amazing. L-P&N, Alpha, CPC and a whole bunch of other organic based, A lot of synthetic stuff out there. folks, It isn't uploaded by your brain. This has stuff in it, This prescription. in Europe We also have DNA force back in stock with the patented CoQ10, BioPQQ, digestive enzymes, immune boosting, astroglycerut, palm-grain extract, plant-based reservatol and a lot more. InfoWarsStorecom- InfoWarsLifecom- is where you go right to the nutraceuticals. You need to understand that your purchase also funds this operation, so you cannot lose. You're getting the very best possible nutraceuticals that we can develop and come up with And you're supporting an organization that is changing the narrative and affecting the globalists deeply and with truth, sabotaging them at every level And doing things that down the road you see, just like Force 10 from Navarone- I've explained that allegory- where they bomb the dam- And it's the sequel of Force 10, Navarone- and it doesn't collapse right away and they're getting up and just give it a minute. And that's what I keep explaining to everybody. We're doing things that have already destroyed the globalist. Now there may be some new group that rises up and that's why they want to keep building the system. but, believe me, we've devastated the national security combine run by foreign institutions. we've devastated the New World Order, the globalist, a pan-Arab alliance- all of it's coming down. Are you concerned about the power grid, About the new war on the power grid? If so, this will be the most important radio message you will ever hear, and the most valuable. Here's why An important book revealing new and dangerous vulnerabilities of the power grid has just been written. Incredibly, the author has agreed to give away several free copies, but only for a limited time, to GCN listeners. He simply asks that you pay $3 to cover part of the shipping and handling cost. Even better, if you're one of the first 17 online today, he will actually FedEx the book to you. Why do this? Why would he spend extra money and all that bother to FedEx his new book? The answer is simple: America's power grid is in grave danger and most Americans are clueless. Find out what's going on behind the scenes and why. the most common question this author gets is: do you fear for your life? Go to waronthegridcom. That's waronthegridcom. Don't wait. waronthegridcom. Serious investors and traders want to make 81% return in 60 seconds. use the same secret algorithm professional hedge fund managers use to make billions of dollars of profits. earn $250 into $4903 and just 7 clicks of a mouse. Our tool is so simple that my 82-year-old grandmother can use it to make insane stock market profits. Go to bigbuckrichescom. Watch the free video before the hedge funds make us take it down. Go to bigbuckrichescom From the Robert Allen system. current return is not indicative of future results. Think body armor is just for commandos. Think again. In a collapse situation, you need to protect your entire family. Infidel Body Armor has created lightweight armor that repels AR-15 and AK-47 rounds and priced at around $500. It won't break the bank. The whole kit weighs just 10 pounds. Let it up for your 7-year-old or 70-year-old. Go to infidelbodyarmorcom and get yours today. That's infidelbodyarmorcom Just won't quit. As if chlorine in our water weren't bad enough, now they're adding ammonia. That's true. Some municipalities are now adding ammonia plus chlorine to your water supply. It's a disinfectant called chloramine, But with a trusted Big Berkey water filter, you can keep chloramine out of your water. New NSF EPA certified lab tests show EPA Berkey water filters remove chloramines, pharmaceuticals, BPA, pesticides, bacteria and viruses, all forms of fluoride and much more. Big Berkey water filters are the original and most trusted on the market, The gold standard in water purification, and our filters last for years at less than two cents per gallon. Big Berkey, the one that's powerful enough to purify stagnant pond water. Get your Big Berkey today. Call 1-877-99-Berkey or click bigberkeywaterfilterscom. That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y. Big Berkey water filters for the love of clean water. We're starting a new meme. It's up at Real Alex Jones on Twitter. We're going to post an article at infowarscom and welcome you to send your memes in. We'll post them as well, At least the good ones. But everybody wins engaging in the info war, And so for radio listeners I'll go ahead and read the meme out. TV viewers already saw it. obviously We'll put that back on screen. Kit Daniels came up with the idea, The truth about Ted Cruz in one image, And it's at Real Donald Trump and at Drudge. We just tweeted it there. It's up on Real Alex Jones right now And at Kit Daniels 1776.. These men all agree: Voterless elections work. That's right. These men all agree: Mao Zedong, Saddam Hussein, Joseph Stalin- And quite frankly I really don't think Saddam Hussein even deserves to be up there. I'm not saying he was a good guy, but he was shut up by the CIA and stabilized the whole area and took out all the radical jihadis and let women go to college and listen to rock and roll on the radio And they really set him up. Let's just say this: He's evil. Compare people that set him up in our government, He's an angel. The media will say I said he's an angel. No, I said he's evil, But compared to them he's an angel. So let's put that meme back up there. folks, The power of you, the people, Let's go with this. These men all agree. Voterless elections work. And just all the different dictators, all the different tyrants, all the different. You could put LBJ up there, who famously stole his way into the Texas delegation for Congress. We just tweeted that out. Let's see that go mega viral. Also, if you want to stay in contact with us, the censorship intensifies. You want to get exclusive videos, exclusive audio, exclusive articles? You want to be part of the info wars insider? It's totally free. info warscom forward slash newsletter. Go there and sign up. info warscom forward slash newsletter. Just put in your email. We'll be able to stay in contact with you. So even the Daily Mail gets it. Cruz claims he's won landslides over and over, beating Trump in five consecutive states even though only one of them held an election. That's right. See, the Daily Mail and others are now picking up on the fact. he keeps calling it landslide and democracy and voter revolt and grassroots uprising. These are quotes. It's not grassroots uprising when they cancel an election and then have party delegates selected by the upper party members vote and then you act like voters voted and he goes on Glenn Beck and goes: he's just mad, I want all the votes. You're not telling him it's super delegates, Cruz. The reason he's going to have a landslide in New York, not just his home state, but because he gets to have a popular vote there. But in other states where he won, they're taking the delegates afterwards. Let's go out to break, though, with Trump saying: I'm so happy, China's upset. They have waged economic war against us. Yes, it's war. Here it is today, on the top of drugs. Matt Drudge is a phenomenal person or phenomenal guy. It's a big deal. Top of drugs. China is upset with Donald Trump. How dare them So they go, They're upset. No, here's the story, The biggest story, top of drugs, Big story. China is upset because of the way Donald Trump is talking about trade with China. They're ripping us off folks. It's time. I'm so happy they're upset. They haven't been upset with us in 30 years. They're never upset. It's so racist. They have a trade deficit with China of $500 billion a year. Okay, They tax and you know they said we're not living up to treaties. They're the ones that don't live up to the agreements because they tax. I have friends and manufacturers. They can't get their product into China And when they do, they have to pay a tax on it. And let me tell you, it's them That's the problem, And they're going to treat us fairly and they're going to treat us justly or it's bye bye, Bye bye. We get things going fast And you have to look at my answer. My response: we're going to go to break. We'll go ahead and fade this down. That's why they hating These are nationalists. They have a 35 to 40% tariff at berries on their currency, on us, where we can't compete. It's a total screw job. It's why we've been deindustrialized. but it's part of a plan to make us helpless And Trump doesn't like it. So he's Hitler by the people that killed more than Hitler ever did. It's a joke. The communist Chinese don't like Donald Trump. What does that tell you? Livecom today, Anthony Goodsharty here with an info wars health news update with Alex Jones. I tried, Anthony. One of our top selling products is brain force. It is very affordably priced at retail that we normally discount it. We've discounted from the discount 25%, But if you count it from its regular price, that's 45% discount for a limited time at info wars lifecom. There are a lot of brain boosters out there, or what's known as new tropics, But here's what separates brain force from the rest. Unlike some energy drinks and supplements, brain force uses natural brain activation ingredients like urbimate extract, alpha GPC, L-theanine, hyperzine A, phosphatidylserine, B12 and many others. Major nutraceutical review sites rave about this formulation and they also rave about the price. Secure your brain force today at info wars lifecom and get 45% off retail. 25% off the regular sales price on brain force for a limited time at info wars lifecom or by calling toll free: 888-253-3139.. You're listening to the Alex Jones show. The Genesis Communications Radio Network proudly presents the Alex Jones show. because there's a war on for your mind. Globalism is about training a country that you're broke back. you have no rights and you have terms dictated to you by gangs of multinational combines, megacorporations and the banks that own and control it through fraud. You know the big six banks, the big five banks that package the same mortgage they don't even own and sell it up to a hundred times and don't get in trouble for mass, total fraud. These are- these are Bernie Madoff scams, thousands of times bigger that have taken the world over through fraud. and now the communist Chinese are saying we can't have Trump and he's an enemy. and Trump comes out and says: you've hijacked our country. you have unfair trade deals, huge currency tariffs on us, bare minimum, no environmental standards. there's no way we compete with you. We're not against you, but you can't screw us and have a 400 to 500 billion dollar a year trade deficit. He Watson has a new article info warscom. this article needs to go viral. Chinese government official: Trump presidency would mean us no longer a superpower. Chinese Finance Minister calls Trump an irrational type. Trump says China has waged economic war on us. China sells its political peaceful dissidents organs and then calls him in the people's daily Hitler. Let me tell you China, the communist Chinese, wish they were as nice as Hitler. literally, Hitler may have killed, if you know, some people he actually killed, maybe seven, eight million people that you know that they actually took and that weren't military combatants and killed. They killed, though about 20 million Russians died, but a lot of starvation things. but let's just say he killed 20 million Russians and other seven, eight million other people. let's just say 27 million people. that's on the high end. Hitler, bad guy. I almost don't exist because of Hitler. I don't just mean George Soros is former operatives trying to shut me down and things, but my grandfather's post almost died fighting Hitler. that's why the ADL, you know, tries to make up stuff about me and Hitler, because there's actually five Hitler. if I was George Soros or Arnold Schwarzenegger going around wearing actual Nazi outfits, it'd be okay. Seriously, I mean, if you're a Nazis, you get like awards and stuff from them, but if you almost don't exist because of the Nazis, you know you're with them. but there it is. Chinese government official Trump presidency would mean US no longer a superpower. So Hitler kills 27 million and then Mao kills 84 million, where the Chinese communists themselves, and then, of course, they've killed tens of millions since then. So these are the biggest, most bloodthirsty, hateful, evil people in the world. Criticize the government. five years forced labor camp. do it again. they sell your organs and they're gonna sit there with a straight face. the North Korea, the big North Korea- that's what China is and lecture us about who we can have and the average trendy loves. being lectured by the Pope. I saw an article last week- I didn't get to where Bernie Sanders went to the Vatican wall- and it said Bernie Sanders did a press conference- I saw the headline, never saw the video from the Vatican wall- and praise the Pope on letting in immigrants. They got a 200 foot wall there. yeah, there it is: Sanders greets supporters at the Vatican. You got two atheist dirtbag communists. See, that's a commie command base, now the Vatican, so he loves it. and there he is below one of their smaller 50 foot walls. The headline is: so it's such an oxymoron. I want to praise you at your giant wall to call for the borders, but no one inside your old city- and Trump is a very dangerous person. There it is, outside Vatican walls. it's just the hypocrisy of these people has reached a new level. but see, they mean to have hypocrisy. they want oxymorons. they want to destroy logic. Truth is a menace and logic is a crime. In fact, we should probably come in with the obsolete man, with Rod Serling. You walk into this room, you walk into a world run by the globe, where your intellect is seen as competition and you're slated from birth to be turned into a drooling zombie. Well, guess what? this world's almost complete, but it's got a demolition filing for the near future, and on the tickets that hangs on its toe it says New World Order- dead on arrival. The day is Monday, April 18th, and here's some of the latest news. It's now known that the Colorado lawmakers voted to scrap the state primary and, in fact, had Cruz Delegates. Four state Republicans voted against the bill that would allow Colorado voters a chance to vote in a presidential primary, and all of them are Cruz supporters, with three of them listed as members of Cruz's Colorado leadership team, and one of them, Senator Kevin Grantham, even had the audacity to brag about Cruz's quote victory on Twitter, despite the fact that the voters did not get to pick a candidate. In other news, only 6% of people trust the mainstream media, putting the industry about equal to Congress and well below the public's view of other organizations. This lack of confidence in establishment media is fueled by an accurate season reporting and deceptive bias. Another study revealed that only 45% of Americans, over 77 million, will not pay an income tax this year because they have no taxable income or they receive enough tax breaks to raise their liability. This says a lot about the current decline of the economy, You'd expect less tax revenue as more Americans leave the job market or stay underemployed at part-time jobs. For more news and reports, visit infowarscom. This is Kit Daniels reporting. It's so easy to get these incredible nutraceuticals that support your health and the info war at the same time. My nine-year listener by all the nutraceuticals, AFU, FX, uh, Nathan, I've got a question: Have they worked for you? They're the most unbelievable products I've ever had in my life. What products are you taking? Everything from uh super mail to uh brain force to winter sun. uh X2 even got a little uh DNA force. So when I just re-up everything and I just went to auto bill, visit infowarscom to read the information and research and to see the reviews for yourself. That's infowarscom, or call 888-253-3139.. Clean, pure drinking water- You can't survive without it. But where do you get it? Alexa pure pro is a brand new, groundbreaking gravity-fed water filtration system that is like no other. The Alexa pure pro transforms water from virtually any fresh source into clean, healthy drinking water, pairing the unprecedented super filtration power of an all new gravity block core with a hybrid chromatic shell. It removes up to 99.999% of impurities, including bacteria, viruses, fluoride, disinfectants, volatile organic contaminants and hormones. filter capacity up to 5,000 gallons. stainless fuel construction, easy assembly, low maintenance. replacement filters are simple to install And now, as part of an exclusive, limited time introductory offer, you can save $20 off a retail price and get free shipping. This is a limited time offer, So order your unit today and receive free shipping and $20 off. Go to infowarsstorecom or call 888-253-3139.. You walk into this room at your own risk, because it leads to the future. Not a future that will be, but one that might be. This is not a new world. It is simply an extension of what began in the old one. It has patterned itself after every dictator who has ever planted the ripping imprint of a boot on the pages of history since the beginning of time. It has refinements, technological advances and a more sophisticated approach to the destruction of human freedom. But, like every one of the super states that preceded it, it has one iron rule: Logic is an enemy and truth is a menace. This is Mr Romney Wordsworth in his last 48 hours on earth. He's a citizen of the state, but will soon have to be eliminated because he is built out of flesh and because he has a mind. Mr Romney Wordsworth, who will draw his last breaths in the twilight zone. You're listening to the Alex Jones Show. I'm your host, Alex Jones. We're on stations, of course, across the country: AM and FM. many UHF, VHF and cable systems also pick up the transmission that simulcast in living television color here in our info wars news centers in Austin, Texas. info warscom forward slash show. if you wish to find the free video feeds and more info warscom forward slash show. and please don't forget, there's massive censorship against the internet, against talk radio, against filmmakers, now, not just here but all over the western world. There is a concerted effort by both political parties in this country to complete the bankruptcy of this country and to roll us into a world government, to transfer our governmental powers to the non-elected IMF, World Bank and, of course, the World Trade Organization under agreements like the NAU, EU and TPP systems. The good news is Donald Trump's coming out and saying China, with 35 to 40% currency tariffs on our goods, is devastating this nation by design and economic warfare. He's telling the truth. Donald Trump is coming out and, of course, saying the Saudis were heavily involved in 9-11, with criminal elements inside our government and others. People say, well, go all the way was more than that. The point is, for a major presidential frontrunner. this is devastating. He started it three months ago and I'm not going to toot my horn, but let's just say repeatedly: I have gotten info of Trump and then he's gone public with it. Stone was on months ago and said: watch, next week Trump's going to go public for auditing the private Federal Reserve. and he said now to be clear, I didn't tell him to. he now knows it's the time and he's been mad about that for 40 years. I talked to Dr Corsi. he's known him 40 years. He says Trump is a sleeper patriot, not a sleeper cell, but like a sleeper patriot, and that's why they're so scared of him. and now, in a new AOL poll and others, Nearly half of Sandra supporters say they might switch to Trump just over the fact that he's being robbed, when he's clearly the frontrunner as well. So the gloves are off. the system is showing itself be very naked. Ted Cruz is trying to spin all this. here's the Daily Mail. Cruz claims he's won landslides as a quote, over and over, beating Trump in five consecutive states even though only one of them held an election. He's walking a tightrope on Glenn Beck and Fox News. He goes on there and never says he goes. the voters have spoken and Trump is a sore loser and then never says the party cancelled the election or he won Louisiana, he won Georgia, he won Arizona, he won Tennessee, he won these other states. and then they just take the delegates and give them to Cruz. He just goes: I'm winning, I've got the bushes behind me. he's talking more and more like Herbert Walker Bush. he says, as his mentor, Revealed Colorado lawmakers who voted the scrap election are Ted Cruz delegates, Breitbart. well, that's not really surprising. Exclusive Trump campaign: Cruz staged attack in Georgia to steal delegates. not grassroots activism. RNC chief: no changes to delegate requirement likely. they're gonna go ahead with the steal. It is simply amazing to see all this happen and I want to cover the waterfront with him. he's with us till about 40. after then we have Richard Reeves from New York on the eve of the primaries that start tomorrow. looks like Trump's gonna get 99 or more delegates, but if you add all the math up, he's gonna be at like 116- 120, they're saying. but if you added up, if Cruz had stolen more than 70, 80 delegates, Trump would be way ahead of he wins these other states at the projections he's got. so this is really unprecedented. again, I got big issues with. some of the things Trump does is: yeah, you know, Al Qaeda is not human, so let's torture him or whatever. we just become them. or ISIS, or you know, let the FBI into the iPhone. he's not tech savvy. I told you the FBI was in that thing, you know beforehand. of course they admit that now, but he's, he's a nationalist, he doesn't want us to be screwed over, he just wants fair deals and they hate him. they've got the MO on him and I'm here to tell you I've talked to people before he ran but said he ever talked about Trump. I'm like no, they're like boy, he sure is against the new world order and these people that know him well, I'm gonna stop right there and I'm like: really, Donald Trump, that guy, like a liberal, because I knew he was on the East Coast, tried to work with people, and like no man. so so, for whatever reason, they're scared of him. and I want to ask Wayne Madsen, formerly high level with the National Security Agency, bestselling author, journalist, covering for decades what's happening on Capitol Hill doesn't really need any introduction here, but I want to ask him why he thinks they're so scared of Trump, what he thinks they may do, and then, of course, that ties into the devastating victory for humanity and all the listeners, the viewers. Wayne Madsen is one of the only other people who, within days of 9-11 happening, came out and said: this thing absolutely stinks to high heaven. you know, during the break, let's just replace my earpiece, whatever's going on. we readjusted four times. I just want to get a new one. thanks, just keeps falling out. for whatever reason, though, we readjusted, drive me crazy. Wayne Madsen was one of the only people who would come out and say: look, we have false flags, we have inside jobs, criminal elements working with Saudi Arabia and others. clearly order to stand down. normal procedures were not there. 15 of the 19 come from there. we had all these FBI whistleblowers and the embassy head whistleblowers saying they were ordered to let them in, and we told you, Saudi Arabia helped run the attack. they at least helped create the patsies. there was a stand down, and then they tried to radically, fundamentally change American liberty, to take our freedoms, launched all these wars, attack the wrong country, Iraq, and now we're backing ISIS and Al Qaeda who Saudi Arabia runs, and Saudi Arabia is threatening to pull $750 billion out of the United States, to quote, bankrupt us. that's the definition of terrorism: threatening physical or economic harm for a political or economic reason, and you can pull up as different definitions, but it's basically threatening violence or economic harm unless your political or economic demands aren't met and they're holding a hostage. think about how this is now one of the number one stories here in the United States and I guess this is the season of things here on the show. can you guys come in and turn the Mac many off? it's blaring protest stuff in here. thanks, we have a really big, complex studio and we've been adding a lot of equipment and a lot of things and it's playing a video behind Wayne Madsen right now, so we will get that shut down. thank you very much. and again, Wayne Madsen with us now to about 45 after want to give him plenty of time and then we will be able to basically, oh, I could hit it right here on my butt, I've got too much equipment here. but but seriously, this is a really, really big time right now, because the fact that the golden silver marketer rigged- that's now mainstream news. the fact that the currency rates are rigged, that's now out. the fact that interest rates are rigged, that's now public, everything's coming out, and the establishment, though, is just moving forward. so I want to ask Wayne where he sees all of this going. but, Wayne, do you agree with me that this is this is cause for celebration, and that Donald Trump, kind of at the coup de gras at the end of the road, help push this over the edge? the fact that Saudi Arabian involvement in our governments bare minimum stand down? we know there's more there, but if this all comes out, congressmen that have seen it, Democrat and Republican, tell me it'll bring down the bushes and the Clintons, and the quote made them cry. we know what's in those pages. where do you see all this going, Wayne Madsen? well, for years, you know, myself and several other people have been calling for the 28 pages from that, the congressional intelligence report on the failures of 9: 11- to be released. I've spoken to former senator Robert Graham, Bob Graham, I've spoken to Walter Jones, I've spoken to quite a few of the members of Congress who have called for that release, and it's always been. you know the immense Saudi lobby that has weighed in against any, any release. now the Obama administration has signaled it's willing to release it, but my question is: what is it going to look like it will the release of the 28 pages. well, the only thing that's not blacked out be the page numbers, as is often the case with, you know, major intelligence reports. I would also note that in the last week we finally seen most of the national intelligence estimate on Saddam Hussein and weapons of mass destruction that's been released, the CIA report, and it says it's right there. it says there there was nothing to link Saddam Hussein with either 9, 11 or WMD's. and a lot of people I know in the intelligence community who are my sources and who suffered greatly because of what they said. they said the same thing. they said what was in that report and they contributed to that report saying there was no connection between Saddam and WMD's or Al Qaeda. and yet they, many of them, were lost, many of them lost their jobs. and one case: a young analyst at NSA named Ken Ford Jr. he said: look, there's no evidence. I've been looking at the intercepts of Iraqi communication. there's no evidence of any connection between Saddam Hussein and WMD's. and yet you know he was basically targeted in an FBI, NSA, securities thing operation. basically what I heard that Dick Cheney said- we're gonna make an example of some of these naysayers and and Ken Ford. unfortunately it was one of the people targeted by the real criminal, Dick Cheney and his- you know his- boss. who one could argue whether Bush knew really what was going on at the time? he was drunk. now, now, Wayne Madsen, you have amazing sources, some of them public, like Sibel Edmonds, FBI translator. but today we're really releasing new info from the 9-11 congressional report- the 28 pages- because I've interviewed Jones and other members of Congress. so have you. you've talked to a lot of the sources who got in trouble under the persecution of whistleblowers, and so now we know what they said 13,, 14,, 15 years ago, depending on which whistleblower has now been vetted and proven to be true. so these were valiant people that wouldn't fix intelligence and wouldn't frame Iraq after the fact at the FBI, at the CIA, at the Pentagon and other areas. so let's spend the next ten minutes before we go to break- because you're a top expert on this- fleshing out what's really in the 28 pages and what the whistleblowers told us about it, because they're the unsung heroes. now this is coming out. I'm glad you reminded me that major persecution happened to the people that testified to Congress and others who didn't go along with the big lie, right? well, like, when you look back at these individual, I gotta say they came from almost every agency imaginable, including some that you know people haven't heard of, like the national geospatial intelligence agency was what? one of the places where people, military officers at the Pentagon, people at norad, like the FAA- you name it- treasury department- that were monitoring the money flows, they all, they all suffered, and you know, including a secretary of the treasury, Paul O'Neill, who was basically run out of Washington because of what he found out about Sally financing of the 9-11. don't forget, John O'Neill, deputy FBI director, quit months before, went to be the head of security. his first day on the job was 9-11, at the towers hired by the security firm of Marvin Bush. they sure killed two birds with one stone. yeah, John, yeah, it's right, John O'Neill. I actually I never met John O'Neill, but I I know where he used to go and drink in DC and the bartender who used to serve him told me how John O'Neill used to say: look, they're covering up for the Saudis, like we've got them and there's going to be something really terrible is going to happen, of course. well, he was in the London independent of a few months before 9-11 he gave a speech saying: we're covering up for the Saudis. there's gonna be a giant terror attack. I'm trying to stop it. he left the FBI to try to stop it right. so so what's in the report? from what I gather, it's going to basically it names Prince Bondar. remember Bondar Bush? he was so close to the Bush family he got that nickname, Bondar Bush. he was a Saudi ambassador to the United States. he was the dean of the diplomatic corps. he'd been here longer than any other ambassador, so he's named. his wife was involved in transferring money to some of the actual hijackers who are then in San Diego. let's be clear: the Saudi ambassador to the US, his wife wiring money to the hijackers. that is sensational, yes, and it doesn't stop with Saudi Arabia. I've been told that the real gems in that, in those 28 pages, are what is what are contained in the footnoted material. I don't know if the footnotes are at the bottom of the page or they're, you know, back towards the end somewhere, but the footnoted material- you, if you look at that, it's like peeling back and onion, layer by layer, you're going to get to some other countries in addition to Saudi Arabia that are implicated. now again, people get confused between the congressional report and the 9-11 Commission report. but right, the mainstream media is trying to use quotes out of the 9-11 Commission report to confuse people and to say that Saudi Arabia- you know, clear evidence wasn't shown. but even members of the 9-11 Commission say there was a cover-up and Saudi Arabia was involved. yes, even even the 9-11 Commission- and that's a governor- came Tom Kane of New Jersey and Lee Hamilton, who used to be the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee. both came out and said that they were lied to. so the 9-11 Commission report- you might as well throw that in a trash can. now the one we're talking about with the 28 pages, was the Joint Congressional Report done by the Intelligence Committees on the failures of 9-11. why did it happen? they looked at it more closely than the 9-11 Commission. because what the 9-11 Commission did is they generated a report that was already written, which was basically a wish list of everything- the Justice Department, the FBI and as they wanted to have in it in a perfect world where the US has suffered, a perfect world for them, where the US has suffered a catastrophic terrorist attack. so that's what the 9-11 Commission did is a rubber stamp, something that was already written. that's right. and expanding on this, we see the perfect storm. Saudi Arabia wants to take out Iraq because then they can start going after Iran and Syria. that's all admitted. the globalist want to be able to have all their weapons sales, take domestic liberties away here in the United States, but the whole world used it to basically trample on freedoms. and then now they think we're so ignorant. round two: they're funding ISIS. they're funding al-Qaeda. it's now gone from a few thousand al-Qaeda to hundreds of thousands in ISIS. very same Saudi flag they fly. it's just black, not green. and our media tries to cover up the link between Saudi Arabia and ISIS and al-Qaeda. today, when the West and Obama and NATO are working with Saudi Arabia and their proxy armies, with Turkey and others- Israel's involved- to to try to overthrow these countries. that's right. and- and the Saudi ambassador who replaced Bondar, this guy to bear- is now the Saudi foreign minister. he's basically in charge of this huge lobbying effort in Washington now to suppress the 28 pages, to basically twist the arms of members of Congress. and also now the Saudis are threatening to divest and sell off billions of dollars- 750 billion. isn't that going to cause a Streisand effect. well, may you know what we have it now is Barack Obama going to Saudi Arabia. what's he, you know what's he? going over there to a power and we've got emergency meetings with him and the head of the Federal Reserve in secret and the Treasury had that aren't supposed to happen under federal law, right. and we know that his CIA director, John Brennan, if he's not a Wahhabist, it former, he was also former station chief of the CIA- and Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, if he's not a Wahhabist, he certainly has shown that he's very much pro Wahhabist in his policies, certainly on their payroll. so let's talk about that. I've talked to a lot of their high-level people and they say Brennan, who lived there over 20 years, did convert to radical Islam. and that would show could this actually be a total double cross where they're not just going to use radical Islam to attack us in a type of giant Tet offensive down the road with sleeper cells, but they actually may be deciding to totally double cross the West and bring it down. well, we've seen a little bit of that with the, the Turks, you know their government is basically Islamist, it's cozy with Saudi Arabia and you know letting all these refugees flood into Europe and what. what happens? you know we've got this. you know it's been called a weapon of mass migration and we got Soros and and the head of the OECD saying, oh yeah, well, this has to happen. these people need to replace the people who are retiring in the workforce in Europe. so there's more to it than just accepting refugees. there's people meeting behind the scenes that are looking at a new labor pool for Europe, but this labor pool of of of young men who are jihadists. they're not the kind of people you want taking jobs in in Europe, because, well, they're gonna effectively change what we know as Western civilization. I know this. I went to high school and college was a lot of really nice Muslim people from Iraq, Jordan, you name it- Lebanese, awesome people, other be Christian or Muslim. but let me tell you I mean stereotype. people from Saudi Arabia, whether they be rich or not, are super arrogant, chip on the shoulder, very hateful, and they just feel super entitled and just walk around treating everybody like crap. and I just why on earth we want to bring millions of these people in here, military age men, when so many of them admit they're going to attack us? I mean it's just, and then and then in Europe, if you criticize them, they arrest you. I'm sure you've heard, if you criticize the Turkish president, Merkel will now have you arrested in Germany, right, right, I mean, that's, that's what's going on, and I do know from being, you know, talking to people and being in the Middle East, the countries that surround Saudi Arabia hate that country. they don't like the Saudi kingdom, and I'm talking about not just Iran, where there's a religious difference and the she is, by the way, the she is when you compare them to the Wahhabists. the she is are like Unitarians or Quakers, I mean, in comparison. but the Iraqis, the Jordanians, the Yemenis, the Omanis, the Bahrainis, the Emirates, the Kuwaitis have no time for the Saudis. for those that don't know, these Saudis were white slavers. that doesn't mean they only kidnapped white people, sex slavers. they also robbed caravans. that's who they are. they are, they're desert bandits. I mean, man, you wonder why they took Islam and turned it into, you know, keep women and slave pits. that's why the feminist groups love them. it's a form of cuddling glorious time, and people just can't get enough of it. we're on the march, the empires on the run, Alex Jones and the GCN radio network. today is Monday, April 18th, and here's some of the latest news. it's now known that the Colorado lawmakers who voted to scrap the state primary and in fact had Cruz delegates, four state Republicans, voted against the bill that would allow Colorado voters a chance to vote in a presidential primary, and all of them are crew supporters, with three of them listed as members of Cruz's Colorado leadership team, and one of them, senator Kevin Grantham, even had the audacity brag about Cruz's quote victory on Twitter, despite the fact that the voters did not get to pick a candidate. in other news, only 6% of people trust the mainstream media, putting the industry about equal to Congress and well below the public's view of other organizations. this lack of confidence in establishment media is fueled by an accurate season reporting and deceptive bias. another study revealed that only 45% of Americans over 77 million will not pay an income tax this year because they have no taxable income or they receive enough tax breaks or raise their liability. this says a lot about the current decline of the economy. you'd expect less tax revenue as more Americans leave the job market or stay underemployed at part time jobs. for more news or reports, visit info warscom. this is Kit Nanner's reporting. a clean, toxic free body is the foundation of true health. deep cleanse by info wars lifecom: a scientifically formulated blend of nano colloidal zeolites and organic ingredients that aid the body in cleansing chemicals and toxic metals. using on proprietary multi-step extraction technology, deep cleanse are most affordable all in one cleanser with concentrated organic compounds like cilantro, milk, thistle, phobic acid, orange peel zeolites and others. deep cleanse doesn't hold back. instead of buying five, six or even seven different cleansing products, we use decades old scientific research that put together the Rolls Royce of all in one cleansing. look, there's a reason. deep cleanse is the only product on the market that uses our proprietary spider x herbal processing technique. we use only the highest quality organic herbs backed by serious research, and we still bring it to you at the best price out there. if you wish to find deep cleanse and experience the all in one cleansing, visit info wars lifecom- that's info wars lifecom- or call 888-253-3139. when cells become toxic, they die early and aging sets in. no one has put together a formula that focuses directly on brain health, nerve growth factors and optimizing your cellular energy at the same time. just one of the key compounds, bio PQQ, is backed by major clinical studies. you want the best that's out there at the lowest price anywhere. we now have the synergistic solution. secure your DNA force today at info wars lifecom, or call toll free 888-253-3139. shower filters. we're introducing the best yet: the brand new pro pure pro max high performance shower filter. it removes and reduces over 200 contaminants while preserving a strong, powerful flow. this new four stage filtration process helps protect the largest organ in your body- your skin- from the unhealthy contaminants in the water. you can find more details on this amazing new filter and free shipping and info wars storecom, or call 888-253-3139 to order your pro max shower filter from pro pure. today you are listening to an info wars dot com frontline report. it's alex jones. jones jones, our guest for another 10 minutes. then joining us from the campaign trail will be richard reeves, who is on the ground in new york. then lou rockwell joins us to look at the big steel 2016. we're about to go back to Wayne madson here in just a moment. I need to get on the phone with Wayne madson and war game with him. as an investigative journalist that does work for info wars, we carry a lot of his stories at info wars dot com. he is a member of the team. he has a lot of other great reports at Wayne madson report dot com. you can also find his books there. but we're going to be going to cleveland, we're also going to be going to the dnc and of course the real action is going to be outside. but I'm getting passes, have passes to the inside. I had to get them another way though the rnc just- and I've gotten them before- is not giving them to me and just I'm going to sue them or file a complaint or something like. they just ignore us when we call and give us the run around. but I'll end up getting in another way, just not as pressed, but really there's not much going on inside. you can't watch on TV. the real action is going to be on the outside. but I wanted to ask Wayne madson what he wants to cover for us. so we go ahead and get him in place as well to cover both of those conventions with our crews as well. so, Wayne madson, part of the team, and you notice that team is expanding because the globalist are engaging in so many crimes openly and as people realize that we know what we're talking about, we get more and more support. but with that comes a lot of expenses, and that's why it's so important to remember if you're buying water filters, or want non GMO heirloom seeds, or want a mow on lobby or Hillary for present t-shirt, or want a book on the dangers of GMO, or want a book or video about 9: 11 and what really happened, or Bohemian Grove, there are thousands of items: the best mini cook stoves, the best crank powered shortwave radios, the highest quality storeable foods. from my patriot supply, private label for info wars, life dot com. private labeled under info wars, select the freshest, newest, highest quality special diet packages. you name it. you're not going to find food of this quality anywhere near this price anywhere. and look, I hope that we don't need to ever use this storeable food, but as insurance, you can always eat it's it's. it's very tasty, but as crazy. as the world is steaming towards depression, I've been getting medical supplies. I've been getting more storeable food. I've got my firearms in line. I'm hoping we don't have war with Russia. I'm hoping the depression in his isn't as bad as many elites believe. but it's all over the news now that the millionaires are moving out of Chicago because they think it's going to collapse and that billionaires are buying armored redow. it's all over the year. US and Europe stuff. I told you six years ago big stuffs coming. all Hades is breaking loose around the world. we're on top a mega, massive bubble and all Donald Trump's done and said maybe we should put the brakes on. and so they say he's the new Hitler. anybody who's a nationalist is now the new bad guy. so please support the broadcast and know that your purchases are essential to what we do. the very best new tropic brain force. it's normally twenty five percent off retail. we did another twenty plus percent. it's forty five percent off retail right now. twenty two dollars for a super high quality all natural brain booster. try it today. this is a great introductory price to try it in full wars. lifecom is the subsection that has all of our supplements and nutraceuticals. DNA force plus is now back in stock. patented form of the antioxidant CoQ 10, bio PQQ- that's the big one. patented digestive enzymes, immune boosting, a straggler's root, pomegranate extract, plant based reservatol and a lot more. it's back in stock. just one of the ingredients, bio PQQ, is patented. it is the only naturally occurring, naturally produced. it's not synthetic bio PQQ out there in the world. that's why it cost thirty thousand dollars for us to run a batch just for the bio PQQ. was it fourteen thousand dollars a kilo? it takes more than two kilos in each batch. that's why this is such a game changer. that's why it's somewhat expensive. a similar stuff out there that you get at medical facilities from doctors is not prescription, but that's where you get it is three hundred four dollars a bottle. ours is a hundred and thirty four dollars a bottle and it's turning heads across the industry because it's such a nutraceutical. but then we've got stuff, like you know, high quality silver bullet, colloidal silver, for five dollars less than the leading competitor, when it's the very same private labeled colloidal silver at infowarslifecom- or you can call toll free, eight, eight, eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine. now going back to Wayne Madsen and a little bit of time we have left with Wayne Wayne. you've heard me throw out a lot of points here: the election theft. why are they so scared of Trump? what's other big news you're working on? I know you've broken some big stories as well that are at Wayne Madsen, reportcom and infowarscom, Carl Rove, backing Cruz and Clinton at the same time. also, you asked: was Cruz's father linked? the JFK assassination Cuban hired by Lee Harvey Oswald bears a striking resemblance, but we know he was tied into these very groups, so we can. and the bushes were running on operation. we know he later, Cruz himself, came to work for the bushes. so let's let's cover those issues right now. Wayne, Well, yeah, the one I'm currently working on is the Raphael Cruz. now there's actually there's like three Raphael cruises. this gets really complicated. but when I'm looking at the background of the Cruz family, I think we got another Obama. we've got CIA people on both sides, mom and dad, and the photograph the, the one with Lee Harvey Oswald pamphleteering in front of the international trademark New Orleans, by the way, which was owned by Clay Shaw, who was the main target of Jim Garrison's investigation we have. the only guy not identified in that photograph is the guy that looks a lot like Raphael Cruz. I've got the FBI report from November 1963. they were not able to identify that individual. the House Select Committee on Assassinations of 1978, Robert Blakey, the general counsel, recently reaffirmed after he appeared on a front line. he said: we don't know who that guy is. we never determine who that guy is. well, even if you're not going to use the photo as evidence of Raphael's ties to the people in New Orleans that were being looked at by Jim Garrison. let's look at his company he worked for- he said he was a geophysical computer guy for this company that was owned by a French oil services company, Schlumberger. the heir to the Schlumberger company, Jean de Manille, winds up as a member of the board of directors of Permindex, out of New Orleans, which was a CIA front company run by who? Clay Shaw. the photograph of the Raphael Cruz lookalike is taken where, in front of the international trademark owned by Clay Shaw. so even if you don't use the photograph as evidence, you got to look at the business ties as evidence. and here's the scariest thing: Ted Cruz has just hired a company called strategic communications laboratories out of London where his mom lived for from 1960 to 1966, married to a guy over there who we don't know what he did for a living. but this company specializes in mass deception, psychological warfare, influence, influence operations and behavioral modification. that's us subsidiary. Cambridge analytics has been retained by the Cruz for president campaign as an advisor. now, after I I broke the story about New Orleans and and the possibility that's Raphael Cruz, their pamphleting with Lee Hardy, Oswald, I've been attacked and it's always the same characters. one of the attacking sites is one cat. they were the same site nine years ago that attacked me for reporting that Dennis Haster was involved in molesting members- underage members- of his high school wrestling team in Yorkville, Illinois. they, by the way, you've now been, you've now been proven right. you're the first person I ever heard say that Haster- this is like over a decade ago. you said he was a perv pedophile, that you were investigating that, and so where's your Pulitzer prize there, buddy? I don't, I don't need those prizes. I've been to these ceremonies where these people award each other prizes. it's really disgusting because I agree, you don't want a Nobel Prize or Pulitzer. no, no, I mean that you're basically to get one of those you're submitting to some control. so if you get one, if I ever got anything like that, I say I messed up, how did I? how I get one of these? I, I shouldn't be getting one of these because you know people to get those are part of the system. but the story on Rafael Cruz and the grandparents. his name was: look, Ted Cruz's father was Rafael bienvenidos Cruz. his father was Rafael bienvenidos Cruz. now try to try to look up records on people with the same last name. but the grandparents came from Cuba in 1966. Rafael came in 57. he said he came to escape Castro Castro's Cuba- 57. Castro wasn't in power for another three years, so he lied about that. his father worked for RCA in Cuba at a time when RCA was involved in a lot of anti-communist activities, including setting up plain desk and radio stations for the CIA. so you know what do we know about the Cruz family right now? we know about as much as we know about Obama's family in 2008 and Manicopa. I didn't look at Obama's family back then and I found out soon enough, weeks after his inauguration, how he was linked to the CIA. and it turns out the whole, the whole family. I tell you, Cruz's dad does have a interesting looking features that are somewhat unique and it does look like a spinning image of his dad, but then you add it in together with the whole Cuban community, how he's one of the early communities, how he's hooked into all these different skunk works type organizations, and then how his son goes right up at the top with the bushes who we know were running the operation to kill Kennedy, George Herbert Walker Bush senior, who's come out and declassified documents to have been in the CIA in the early 60s. he lied about it when he became the director in the 70s- just magically the director, but never been in it. yeah, and one of the guys in that photograph in front of the trademark at the far right is Chauncey Holt, who was the accountant for Meyer Lansky, the mobster. and Chauncey Chauncey Holt apparently told author Ed Haslam, who wrote a book about all this in New Orleans in those years, that all the Cubans in that photograph were part of the CIA's operation Mongoose. that was the clandestine program to overthrow Fidel Castro, and Oswald was there doing all this. just to you know, sheep dip these people as part of an anti, a pro Castro movement. sure, it's a cover. absolutely, this is to get our legend going. let's shift gears out of this. what do you make of Trump with the communist Chinese government now coming out saying: you know we're gonna have a trade war with you. you're not gonna be a superpower if you go for Trump. Trump saying, hey, you're involved in economic warfare. what do you make of the Saudis getting so mad of him? what are you thinking about Trump these days? well, I mean, I think he's absolutely right to be upset about the theft of delegates by Ted Cruz. I ran across this and when I covered the 2000 campaign in a Republican convention that year was in Philadelphia, and remember McCain was running against Bush for that nomination and McCain won the state of Michigan, which was a winner take all state. so here I see Michigan governor John Engler on the street and I said, governor, can I have a word with you? and I said: how come you're here representing Michigan when Michigan was in a you know winner take all. McCain wanted you're the co-chair of the Bush for president campaign in Michigan. he says: oh, we just couldn't allow anybody coming off the street to say they were a McCain delegate. we had to vet them and then that process McCain lost a lot of his delegates in winner take all Michigan. look for the same thing to happen in Florida, where Trump won every county except for Rubio's Miami Dade- a winner take all. we'll see. they've already done that. they're already taking Georgia, they're already taking Tennessee, they're already taking Arizona. all these states where he wins, they just take it. and then Cruz gets up there and says: I've won a grassroots uprising, the voters have spoken, talk about a Psyop. and he never says it was voterless. and then they criticize myself and drudge and others because we dare to point out. they're now going voterless like never before. is this a sign of desperation or arrogance, Wayne? well, look you, look at the people who have glommed on to the Cruz campaign. you got the Neil Bush acting as an advisor to him. he's a crook from the Silverado saving a loan collapse. we got Jeb endorsing him, and then, and then we have David Dewhurst, the former lieutenant governor of Texas, who ran against Cruz for the Senate nomination, lost in the primary, and all of a sudden he comes out and endorses a guy who he absolutely had no time for. Ted Cruz, why? well, who did you know? what agency did David Dewhurst use? CIA? and, by the way, he wasn't just some analyst. he was down in Central and South America with Klaus Barbie. yes, and, and you know what? this is all, this is all home week with the Cruz campaign. they're all coming together: David Dewhurst and the Bushes, and, and, and, and, and we're, you know, we're to believe that Rafael Cruz, who lived in Dallas and then moved to New Orleans in the early 60s, and now this crew of narcotics trafficking, rogue government CIA people are telling us we don't get to vote in America anymore, and they have the Chinese Communist calling Trump Hitler when they've killed 84 million people. yeah, I would note that Ted Cruz's dad decides to leave New Orleans in 67 to move to Calgary. that's the same year Jim Garrison began his investigation of exactly who was with Oswald, in 1963. you know, gee, Rafael, you sure got out of the country fast and amazing, amazing, Wayne, let's talk, call me this afternoon or just tell me, send an email to do the news director. I know we're getting everything coordinated. what you think we ought to target, what you want to do in Cleveland, but but also there when the Democrats meet later, and what in Philly. so let's get this going absolutely. I think you're right, though, that in both Philly and Cleveland we're going to see a lot of protesters: Sanders protesters out in the streets in Philly and Trump people out in the streets in Cleveland. if, if more of the chicanery is, by the way, Trump's come out and said: I don't want violence. you're a lot of mad people. if you still the election in Cleveland, I'm concerned. when he's at a police union in New York- I saw the clip on Fox this morning and they act like he was calling for violence. no, he wasn't. it's the Soros Democratic Party, Black Lives Matter crews that are openly running around calling for violence, and our crews have been all over the country documenting it. right, and remember who is his major opponent. Cruz has working for him, a company that's tied to the CIA, that specializes in mass deception, psychological warfare, influence operations and behavioral modification, and we know through history the CIA has used the media to accomplish, and what that means is really fancy lying where he gets up there and goes. I want all the popular votes in these states and Trump's mad hoping you don't go. look, and they canceled the elections. I mean, it's just called brazen lies. they just charge him a bunch of money to teach him how to be con artist. it's amazing. listen, I'm on the knife's edge about going to Germany, to Dresden, to cover Bilderberg in the middle of June, but regardless, I'm looking to want to send you and some other people. so let's talk today. Wayne Madsen, absolutely okay, all right, so you want to go to Germany? I'll be over there, sure, all right, let's line it up. all right. we're going to break folks, we're going to come back for a couple segments with Richard Reeves and then we're going to go to Lou Rockwell and I'll open some phones up when Rockwell is on with us briefly sending reporters to Germany to cover Bilderberg- expensive. you want the Intel. get high quality products at the best prices that you absolutely need: high quality storeable foods, high quality nutraceuticals, high quality non-gmo heirloom seeds. high quality t-shirts, books, videos, all of it. shop with the good guys- info war storecom, info wars, lifecom is the nutraceuticals- and shop with the good guys so we can really cover everything we need to cover. and you notice we're covering stuff as folks have been supporting us. I salute you and thank you, but go read the reviews about the nutraceuticals. they're five star folks. you're missing out on supermail, vitality and stuff like that. are you prepared to bug out infidel body armor and an army ranger have produced a high speed DVD and book to show you how to drive in combat patrol and how to survive in combat, skills you'll need when it it's the fan. go to driven dvdcom, driven dvdcom advertising. your business with GCN is simple, effective and more affordable than you might think. visit advertise dot GCN, live dot com for more info. take your business to the next level. that advertise dot GCN, live dot com- a good stove is at the top of the list for any serious survivalist. that's why you have to see the full range at emberlit dot com. simple, elegant but extraordinarily efficient. available in titanium or stainless steel, the emberlit line of stoves are ultralight, packed, flat and work great, fueled only by sticks and debris. from emergency situations to long term survival, emberlit stoves are up to the task. emberlit: the most convenient, easy to carry wood stoves on the planet. see them all at emberlit dot com. are you worried about how dangerous the world has become? in these days of terrorist attacks, natural disasters or even a future collapse? you need to be medically prepared to keep your family safe. I'm Joe Alton, MD of store dot doom and bloom dot net, where you'll find an entire line of uniquely designed medical kits and supplies for when help is not on the way, for everything from individual first aid kits to the ultimate family medical bag. go to store dot doom and bloom dot net today. that store dot doom and bloom dot net. you'll be glad you did. you've woke up to the deception. you understand how big government and corporations are controlling you. guess what the trail goes even deeper. when you want to learn the full truth, visit tools for freedom dot com. we take you further into uncovering the conspiracy than you've ever been before put tools for freedom dot com. use coupon code radio to get a free dvd today, or call 800 770 8802. that's 800 770 8802. tools for freedom dot com. serious investors and traders want to make 81% return in 60 seconds. use the same secret algorithm professional hedge fund managers use to make billions of dollars of profits: turn $250 into $4900 in just seven clicks of a mouse. our tool is so simple that my 82 year old grandmother can use it to make insane stock market profits. go to big buck riches dot com. watch the free video before the hedge funds make us take it down. go to big buck riches dot com from the Robert Allen system. current returns not indicative of future results. so you've got to take a state construction license exam or certification. can't decide on what books or what chapters to study. discover right now how you can eliminate unnecessary books and wasted study time at contractor exam dot com. our study materials zero in on state required test topics in an effective multiple choice format. so whether you're a plumber, electrician, general contractor or other construction related trade, contractor exam dot com will help get you prepared. visit us at w w w dot. contractor exam dot com today. I hear the train. it's rolling around the bed and I've seen the sun shine- I don't know when. I'm stuck in prison and the time keeps dragging on, but that's rain keeps rolling all down the sad and cold. when I was just a baby my mama told me, son, always be a good boy, don't ever play with God. but I shot a man and Reno- just Richard wouldn't tell us his location. he's got something to surprise us on air. we're gonna go to Richard Reeves, my good buddy and info wars political correspondent, joining us, I would guess from New York, probably trump tower. I'm not sure we're about to find out, but before we go any further, I cannot express to you that huge, exciting things are happening- good, bad and ugly. when I say we're starting to turn the tide against tyranny and that evil is in trouble, I'm not saying that as a cheerleader. I'm saying it because it's true, and it's a big deal, that Saudi Arabia's role in 911 is coming out. there's a lot of whistleblowers lost their jobs, got in trouble and got killed. so we know the truth. the globalist are in trouble people. the Pentagon said no to backing al-qaeda in Syria, so they changed the name to ISIS. I mean so many good people in government- not a government, are saying no, the new world orders have in trouble. and now they want to tell us trump is Hitler, the communist Chinese, the biggest mass murderers in history. because he, because they got deals screwing us and they got a bunch of collaborators in our media and the left and the Republicans going along with foreign leaders that are mass murder connected, lecturing us. it's over. so we win because of Trump running. even if they cheat him, they do it in front of everybody. I know he's got a lot to talk about the 1015 minutes we've got with him. Richard Reeves is in, I'm guessing, New York. where are you, Richard? yes, sir, we do have a lot to talk about him. before I reveal my surprise location, I got to say that piece that you and Wayne Madsen just did. that is completely best, totally best of this audience. anybody that calls themselves a journalist. if they're not listening to the Alex Jones show on a daily basis, then they're not a journalist. they're missing out. it's incredible what made Wayne Madsen did. now, I know this breaks protocol, but I am actually here. I'm on the way to shuffling off the buffalo here after this interview, but I am actually in Cleveland at the Quicken Loans Arena, right across the street right behind me. I don't know if they had any idea when they paid the big bucks for that sponsorship, if they knew they were going to be ground zero for what's coming up, but they are. so, yeah, we got a lot to talk about that Wayne Madsen piece- just incredible, yeah, just bombshell after bombshell. he was breaking down what's in the 28 pages because he's interviewed the people that put it together, absolutely, and speaking of 9-11, the 28 pages. there are people as of even today that, oh, you know us talking about 9-11 inside job, the 28 pages, etc. hey, take your tin foil hat off, Alex. take your tin foil hat off, Richard Reeves, take your tin foil hat off if a worse crew will get. but they've all put on their tin foil hat they're joining in on. I know what's it like when it's in the New York post that he's saying: US government covered up Saudi role, US government stood down on 9-11. we're proving correct. I got to tell you it feels good because it means the criminals are going to get brought to justice. there's a better chance of that now. this is so exciting, Richard. those arrogant bastards, when they did this, thought they'd get away with it. well, guess what you're not. it's exciting and that's like okay. if anybody thinks that Trump is not the right man, president, think of the influence Trump has had on so many things. oh my gosh, it's like gigantic wavos man. got the Chinese threatening economic sanctions- come on. you got the Saudis threatening economic sanctions on the US. give us a break. you haven't even seen the superpower yet China, you haven't even seen it. yeah, we're being destroyed. we're being. how dare them sit there and bully us and lecture us? it is pretty crazy, I tell you. so it's very exciting to see. like, so you got. it shows how arrogant they are. Richard, I should be madder you. you're right to be upset. I mean, folks, are you sick of the biggest mass murders in history telling us we can't have somebody that says we should have better trade deals? that's how broke and whipped they think we are. stay there, Richard, I ain't got a lot to cover. he was telling me in New York today. I guess he stopped by Cleveland to recon that area and, by the way, you know, wild horses couldn't drag me away from that in July. stay with us, we're gonna be right back in. T-minus seventy seconds. info wars dot com. spread that link. spread that link. they don't like that link. spread that link. spread that link today. hey everyone, pharmacist Ben Fuchs here, host of the bright side, and as many of you know, I'm on a mission to help Americans get and stay healthy. you've all heard the shocking statistics. despite spending trillions of dollars in health care- nearly ten thousand dollars per man, woman and child in this country- obesity, diabetes, cancer, heart disease and autoimmune illnesses are rampant. one out of three or four people is dealing with some kind of health challenge and everyone knows at least one person with a degenerative disease. if you're dealing with a health challenge or if you're healthy and want to maintain your vigor and longevity and you're looking for a convenient, easy way to incorporate nutritional raw materials into your day to day lives, to guarantee that your body is getting the fundamental nutrients, the ninety essential vitamins, minerals, fats and amino acids- it needs to do its healing work, you need to check out info wars team dot com. give your body the gift of good nutrition. head over to info wars team dot com. your body will be very grateful. on the web at info wars team dot com- that's info wars team dot com. you're listening to the alex jones show. we are on the march. the empire is on the run: alex jones and the gcn radio network. well, national review has been totally discredited. two months ago, february 15th, we'll show tv viewers a document cam shot. it makes perfect sense that donald trump is a 9-11 truther. february 15th 2016 and the article opens up. in south carolina on saturday night, donald trump turned into an alex jones show caller saying that saudi arabia was involved in 9-11, and then a secret 28 pages showed it. well, i mean, that was admitted then and known. they just hope their readers were dumb and attacked yours truly. but bernie sanders says he doesn't want to know it, isn't going to talk about it- isn't he a good little commie? and hillary says she doesn't know anything about such a 28 pages. richard, i'm ranting, but go ahead and finish up your points. i know you're going to be on the nightly news tonight as well. you're going to follow report for leon macadoo, who's hosting. but go ahead, my friend, absolutely. well, i'll tell you. uh, that piece of Wayne madson. you talk about ted cruz, one thing that i noticed back. you know it didn't come up in y'all's interview, but ted cruz ran against david dewhurst for that sentencing and david dewhurst was supposed to be the shoe in for that. so this is all kind of started to really explain how ted cruz was able to really jump up there and be able to beat dewhurst- and, by the way, there was a runoff for that race back in back in 2012 when ted cruz ran against dewhurst. one thing that happened was is that i think i can't remember how many candidates there were in the primary, but nobody got a majority in the primary, so they had to have a runoff. and i remember you know what i want to hear ted cruz victory speech the night of the runoff, and so i'm listening to his speech, listening to his speech, and he, he goes into his thank yous, thank you, so and so, thank you, so, so, thank you, george bush. and i'm like whoa, where did that come from? you know, it's like wow, and so hopefully an info warrior can find that. i've looked for it on the web. it's the victory speech that he gave when he won ted cruz's texas senate victory speech. i remember it was when he won the primary. so there's a little, there's a little tidbit on that. now here's a different info. nugget. you're talking about the chinese, the trade war potentially brewing up and all that. well, we shot a bunch of video in iowa. some of it didn't get put up cause we shot so much it takes a while to process. anyway, we were at a jeff bush event and it was matt weber and i, matt and i, went to jeff bush event and we encountered this young chinese man, probably mid twenties. he had to be one of the elite, i mean, he's at a jeff bush event, right, and on the hop of that he was about six foot four. he wasn't a regular chinese man and he was like and i said, where are you from? and he said he traveled all the way from china to be at a cedar rapids, iowa, jeff bush event. so tell me how important jeff bush family is to the chinese. i mean, we saw henry kiss- no, it was his dad- opened it up and made the whole deal to screw america absolutely. henry kissinger started to crack there for the open door to china. you know, we know what henry kissinger did with saudi arabia. and then, like you said, george, senior poppy bush really took our industry and started taking it over china and the bushes. are these total enemies of this country, absolutely, and uh, switching gears a little bit zika, i haven't really had a chance to totally look into it and we? i know there's been so much news, but are the new world order fingerprints all over zika or what they are? they are, richard, credible so that that's another brewery. that's your Rockefeller foundation souped up weapon that actually says that from the fifties, and then it's tied in the billable indicates, as usual, and these mosquitoes that are being released and quote mutating magically. well, i'm sure there's gonna be a lot more reporting on. richard, you've got a ton to cover, so i want to get you on with macadamia tonight. you can tape it or be live, uh, but that's a good shot. you're there and i know you've got a lot of other points to cover. sorry i got you on to late, but great job and look forward to having you on tomorrow and tomorrow night when we're going to have live extended coverage of the big republican primary. new york: hundreds of delegates up for grabs tomorrow, one of the most important dates, and they're on fox news saying: even if he wins, they may be bold enough to try to take delegates in new york and announce cruise the winner, even if trump wins there. i mean, they are some arrogant, arrogant people, richard. yes, sir, and i'll tell you what it's absolutely an honor and approval is to get pushed back with. wane madson did an earth shattering report with you and alex. you know it's incredible. it was, i tell you. i mean, you were there at the start of 9: 11. truth, richard, i'm known usage 2002 and they are just flipping out right now. richard reeves on the road, our great political correspondence. he'll be back with us tomorrow- and the nightly news. thank you, richard. all right, folks, we're gonna be back. he's getting suited up. we're gonna have ron paul, former chief of staff, head of the von mis institute, one of top libertarians globally. lou rockwell on the big fix 2016. nearly 40 volcanoes are currently erupted across the world and scientists warned that the current conditions could trigger at least four record breaking earthquakes. the earthquakes that just hit recently have left over 270 dead in ecuador and over 42 dead in japan, with a mass evacuations continuing out of fear of aftershocks, and scientists at tokyo university estimate there's at least a 70 percent chance that japan will eventually suffer from another earthquake equivalent to the great kanto of 1923, which measured 8.9 and killed over 142,000 people, and other scientists also fear a full blown eruption of the yellowstone national park volcano, which could have up to 2000 times the power of the mount st helens eruption of 1980. some even speculate that the volcanic winter resulting from a yellowstone eruption could devastate america's food supply and could even cool the planet 20 degrees. the volcanic ash could even blanket areas a thousand miles away and there's already signs and eruption could happen. a few weeks ago, river near the super volcanoes started to boil and the volcano itself is blasting out even more steam than before. for more news visit info wars dot com and prison planet dot tv. this is kit angels reporting to even close to what we have. It is exclusive to InfoWarsLifecom and the InfoWarsLife family of incredible products. Anthony Gucciardi here with an InfoWars Health News update with Alex Jones. That's right, Anthony. one of our top selling products is BrainForce. It is very affordably priced at retail that we normally discount it. We've discounted from the discount 25%, but if you count it from its regular price, that's 45% discount for a limited time at InfoWarsLifecom. There are a lot of brain boosters out there, or what's known as new tropics, but here's what separates BrainForce from the rest. Unlike some energy drinks and supplements, BrainForce uses natural brain activation ingredients like Yerba mate extract, alpha GPC, L-theanine, hyperzine A, phosphatidylserine, B12 and many others. Major nutraceutical review sites rave about this formulation and they also rave about the price. Secure your BrainForce today at InfoWarsLifecom and get 45% off retail. 25% off the regular sales price on BrainForce for a limited time at InfoWarsLifecom or by calling toll free: 888-253-3139.. You're listening to the Alex Jones show. Ladies and gentlemen, the next hour, Lou Rockwell of LouRockwellcom and the head of the Yvonne Mies Institute will be our guest. I intend the last 20 minutes or so to open the phones up and take your questions or comments. The toll free number to join us is 800-259-9231.. 800-259-9231.. I'm Alex Jones, your host. InfoWarscom is obviously our main site. Wow, where to begin? We now see America under global governance, to a great extent, secret trade deal signed. We see elections being openly canceled all over the country and Ted Cruz calling it a grassroots victory. Are we seeing the death throws of the out of control political class or are we seeing their complete takeover and a victory? I think it's up to us to decide that. but if you go back to two months ago- quote- it makes perfect sense that Donald Trump is a 9-11 truther, February 15th. and then you go to the article in South Carolina on Saturday night, Donald Trump turned into an Alex Jones show caller and what they always do is misrepresent what we've said. Saudi Arabia had 15 of the 19 hijackers. I talked to the FBI agents, the translators, the whistleblowers. I interviewed them all. They were ordered to stand down before, on and after by criminal elements in our government. The media spun it that I was saying there was any radical Islam. Of course there is. We stand firmly against it. Circus Soleil is canceling coming to different states that pass laws protecting Christians, free speech, but they're going to go to countries in the Middle East that chop gay people's heads off, While the left pushes for massive censorship across America and calls Donald Trump Hitler, while the communist Chinese under Mao that killed over 84 million people, according to them- lecture us. Anybody's close to Hitler if the communist Chinese- and the reason I open up with the fact that it's in the Associated Press, it's in the New York Times, it's in the New York Post. look at these headlines- headlines that's a new term I have for. but what happens when they start telling the truth? what happens when they're forced to get it out in the open? this is the collapse of the facade. Saudi Arabia threatens to pull 750 billion from the US economy of Congress allows them to be sued for 911 terror attacks. Here's another headline: New York Post: how US covered up Saudi role in 911. Saudi Arabia warrants of economic fallout of Congress praises 911 bill, passes it. Saudi Arabia warrants of economic fallout. these are the threats of a hereditary dictatorship like North Korea, who got their power from British intelligence in 1901. they controlled about 200 square miles along a key caravan route where they would rob people, including capturing women and children to be used as sex slaves. if anybody is bad, it's not Donald Trump, it's Saudi Arabia and the communist Chinese leadership. and the reason I preface this with all that is I wanted to get Lou Rockwell on for a few weeks. he's a busy guy about the election theft and we're going to cover that. look at this daily male headline: Cruz claims he's won landslides over and over, beating Trump in five consecutive states even though only one of them had an election, and then in other states like Louisiana, Tennessee, Arizona, Georgia. Trump wins and then they just give the delegates before they even go to the convention to Cruz. and the reason I want to get Lou Rockwell on: he helped get Ron Paul in Congress. he's worked in Congress. he was a chief of staff before he went on to be the best selling author and head of the Von Mies Institute and the rest of it and found the popular news site LouRockwellcom as a political expert and elections expert, what his view is on all of this and where he sees this going. and I want to ask him again. I have some major issues with Donald Trump, just like Ron Paul does, but the fact that they're so scared of him and that he is a nationalist is why I'm supporting him, because at this point, I'm just supporting open elections. Lou Rockwell, am I wrong in saying this is one of the most epic times in the history of the United States? I mean, it has a 1776 feel to it, or am I wrong? are we at that crossroads that you and Ron Paul have warned about for 30 years? Well, Alex, I certainly hope so. I mean, I think we definitely. we need a, an ideological and a moral upheaval in this country, and it's why the regime, the neocons, the republican establishment, the democratic establishment, the academic establishment, the corporate establishment on bankers and all these people fear populism, because it it riles up the people. it says: you know what? you're being ripped off. not only are there are there, are there bad ideologically? they're stealing from you, they're ripping you off, they're taking your freedom, they're taking your money and they're all living very well thanks to it. so Trump has the ability to really connect to people and, like you and Ron, I have many differences with Mr Trump on the issues, although I think where but there? all these guys are bad on trade. from my standpoint, they're all bad. on all the issues that Trump is bad on, they're all bad on, on the other hand, the places where Trump is good, whether it's immigration or the political correctness movement or the especially foreign policy questions of war and peace, he's uniquely different and better than the others. is he for real? you know? I, after so many years of watching this stuff, I'm sure you forgive me if I'm not a hundred percent sure, but I think he's stirring up just tremendous outrage among the American people, tapping into that outrage. we've seen it even in the polls. people in more and more distrust the government. they distrust the big media. they know there are things are desperately wrong. they fear for themselves, they fear for their children and their grandchildren. they just are very worried about what's happening in this kind of. they all know this is not the same America they grew up in and they don't like it. so Trump is stirring everybody up. you know we'll see what happens. I should just mention, by the way, the music institute is not a political or a partisan organization, so I'm simply giving my own views when I when I talk about some of these things about Trump. sure, you guys promote Austrian economics, yes, and libertarianism, but I will say that I think Trump is doing a whole lot of good. he's scaring everybody evil. I mean, if you look at the people who really hate the guys of Trump, it's like a who's who of the creeps of the country. so that has to tell us something. and he's just much better on foreign policy. when we're facing people, I think probably Hillary is the worst, the most likely to start a world war. three, Cruz is probably not far away from her. when we're facing people like that, Trump, I think, is the least likely to start a war. he actually- I think that's the best thing. he doesn't want to just randomly start a war with Russia. they have two bases, they're doing nothing to us, we're funding ISIS against him and that's what I like best is the fact that he wants us to be strong to be able to defend ourselves but says we're not just going to go around attacking people and listen, I do the same calculus you engage in, Lou. I look at him and I say, look, I don't just trust somebody off their rhetoric. but when I see true, palpable fear, hundreds and hundreds of millions thrown against him by the republic and the democratic establishment, the stealing of the election, they're so desperate, openly, desperately. the Chinese communists, the socialist pope, the Mexican presidents and former presidents, and Hollywood and the kitchen sink. I've been told by high-level Trump people- and I'm just gonna leave it at that- that he really is a closet libertarian, a closet anti-new world order guy, and more and more he comes out against Saudi Arabia, he comes out against China- I mean, I really think it's true- more and more, and so I think that's why this was here. he comes out against NATO. he asked: why? why should we have all the? why should we have all these bases all over the world? if you look at a map of US bases, they surround Russia. there aren't any Russian bases surrounding the US. US feels they're perfectly fine to send destroyers, armed with who knows what kinds of weapons, very close to st Petersburg and and Russian territory and the Russians are supposed to just think that's fine. you can imagine what would happen if the Russians sent a bunch of destroyers into the Gulf of Mexico. can you imagine if there were 50 Russian ships around the US? I'd be calling for blowing them up. well, I mean there would be, you know, the US would be blowing them up. so, and you know, the US, of course, as we're told by all the neocons and all the creeps, is the exceptional nation. the rules that apply to everybody else don't apply to the US, just like they would argue that the rules that apply to all the other human beings. where does this arrogance come from the bushes? well, I, you know. I think it has something to do with government. you know, if you go, I don't like to go to Washington, but one of the things that always strikes me about Washington is the level of arrogance. I mean, these people even walk arrogantly. they talk arrogantly. they all think of themselves as being at the center of the empire and therefore they're very, very important. of course they're not important, but US feels it should rule the world, the solar system, you know, whatever they believe, their history's, actors are, so forth. well, they, they believe that. you know, is it any different? the Roman Empire or the Babylonians or the Egyptians or the British or all all these empires in the history of the world have this kind of arrogance. everybody else is just dirt under their feet. their boots should be under throat and, of course, most of all, they concentrate on the people they fear the most, which is not foreigners, it's Americans. so they're worried about Americans tossing off the yoke, and so when they see something like what's happening with Trump, it's why they're so desperate. I'm afraid they may be successful, but it's why they're so desperate to deny him the nomination, why they're willing to be openly rip off with these ripoff festivals in Colorado and elsewhere where they're going to take his delegates. very few- maybe a half of the Trump delegates- will actually be Trump supporters. maybe a half of them will be- will be like double agents. so if they can deny him the nomination on the first ballot- and that's, of course, what they're working very hard to do- I think he's not. he's not going to get. it probably is going to be Cruz or you know. I don't think they can actually get away with bringing Paul Ryan. Lou, I want to get into that. I want to get into that with Lou Rockwell of Lou Rockwell dot com speaking to us today from the Mises Institute, Mises dot org. key information obviously there on economics and libertarianism and in true free market through the dollar. you know, through voting with our, our decisions. but getting back to what you mentioned, you will know someone by their friends and their enemies. I've never seen such a laundry list and I'm kind of ashamed of Americans and that there's not even more support for Trump when the whole world's bossing us around. I mean this is really pathetic, like we're some colonialized, controlled nation run by multinationals. but I guess that's what it's come down to. you know, I- I hark back to one of the seconders for Grover Cleveland's second nomination for president and the man nominating talked about it- how great Cleveland's first term had been and it was be so wonderful he the second term, how he was great in so many ways. but then he said you know we love him most for the enemies he has made. so I mean it does say something about a man who his enemies are, who hates him, and in Trump's case I mean you're it's. it's definitely a rogue's gallery. it's like a you know the one of those books in the police station with all the photos of the criminals. that's what you know. they're gonna have the book of the anti-trumpians. that's what it would look like, and you should have them facing front and facing to the side. these are, these are very bad people. George Soros- and I mean now you know we get on the list of all the people who've dedicated their billions to destroying this country, to to changing things radically in the worst kind of a way. these are people who you know. in some sense, there are aspects of communism they want to bring here. we already have some aspects of communism with the Fed and other government programs. now they'd like to make it worse. they want to, of course, inundate us with welfare, immigrants and all the rest of the, all the rest of the horrible things they're doing. let's talk about their policy, Rockwell. yes, sir, but. but first, getting back into the election, since you mentioned it, you know you've been chief of staff around, Paul. you've run congressional campaigns successfully. have you ever seen a steal this blatant? and what do you expect to see next? I mean your expert view on the election. well, the? I wasn't there to see it, but the 52 Republican convention, chaired by Earl Warren, stole the nomination from Bob Taft, who was sort of the Ron Paul of his day, great man, and gave it to Dwight Eisenhower, who was the establishment candidate, the Rockefeller, the Rockefeller candidate. Murray Rothbard always said if only Robert Welch had referred to Eisenhower as a conscious, dedicated agent of the Rockefeller conspiracy, you would have been exactly right. so they, what they did was they threw out elected and Taft delegates and installed in the convention Eisenhower delegates in various states to give Eisenhower the nomination. but there was no social media in those days, was just the establishment press, who were of course cheering for, for Ike, and they got away with it then. I don't think they're going to get away with it this time. they may get away with giving the nomination to the creep of the moment, but I think they're not going to get away with it with the American people. I think this means- and I would love to see it got my fingers crossed- the demolition of the Republican party. I come out of the Republican party before going straight and I'd love to see them go down. they really are a rotten organization. yes, there are good people who are Republicans. but the establishment of the party in the states, in the national party, in the senate, in the congress, in the chivalry, in the various bureaucracies. these are evil people, these are awful people and to see their their little game taken away, how sweet it would be. blue rockwell's our guest separately. I want to get back into the campaign and back into other big issues that are in your radar. but the economy, the big bubble, the big event that you've talked about so long, the Federal Reserve saying we're gonna, you know, just go back to zero interest rates. the IMF, the World Bank, Trump's talking about the big bubble. China's imploding. you really are, first and foremost, an economic expert. what are the other experts at the Mises Institute saying about what's happening? well, first of all, another thing they've attacked trump for is saying there is a bubble and, as he thinks, is very dangerous bubble, and he fears that it's going to pop. and, of course, he's exactly right. there is a huge bubble that's been pumped up by the Fed in order to reward wall street, in order to make stocks go up, in order to make Goldman Sachs and JP Morgan and all the rest of these, these firms, even richer than they are. so that's been, that's been the deliberate policy. now, of course, we're going to have negative interest rates: zero, zero interest rate. that's already unnatural and unbelievably economically destructive because the Fed holding interest rates near zero, but of course they're going to bring them below zero. same time, they want to outlaw cash because one of the problems for them with zero interest rates, or even negative interest rates, people think that why should I heck, should I keep my money in the bank when they're charging me a fee? much better to take it out and either keep it just in cash or buy gold. so in order to prevent that from happening, they want to outlaw cash. they do not want you to be able to. you can transfer your money from bank a to bank b. of course they're okay with that, but you're not going to be allowed to take your money out of the form of cash. this is what they'd like. so they're talking, you know, about what politically correct person is going to be on which dollar bill, which 20 or the 10 or whatever. course, i must say i think they're all pretty awful. if you get on the uh, you get on one of the us notes, uh, you're pretty awful. the late bird blumbert used to uh hark back to the days when us coins and notes had no politicians on them but had lady liberty or american, indian or buffalo or things like that, and he said that, uh, you know, things have taken a bad step when they started to put politicians on the money, although he said the actual worst step, when you really need to watch out, is when they put living politicians on the money, and that's not quite- not quite there. but is there going to be an obama 10 dollar bill at some point? i don't think we can rule it out. these people are so arrogant, so crazy. they'll be right back to to to caesar, and that's what scares me. they have all these advanced weapons. they're totally arrogant. everything they're doing now basically falls on its face, but they don't care, they just move forward. speaking of that, that, how big a deal is it to see all the big newspapers talking about us government stood down on 9: 11? us government covered up for soddies. that has got to really scare the power structure. well, i think it's. i think it's great. of course, those 28, first of all, the whole 9- 11 report is- i should like put this- highly flawed. uh, as ron, paul and you've said, we need an honest investigation of those events. uh, but the you know, of course it all should be published and the soddies are a very corrupt and rotten regime. they are allowed to get away with all kinds of things that nobody else is, because i don't want to shock anybody, they pay off american politicians. there's huge money involved. if you go over there and kiss their hand, hold their hand like the george h bush, george hw bush and george w bush used to do- obama, you know, saluting and uh, bowing to them and so forth, he's getting the big bucks in return, and maybe when he's in office, maybe it's when he's out of office, but they have a lot of money to hand around. washington got a lot of people on the payroll. so if this actually happens, no, i think it's a great thing and i hope it will encourage more interest in this. i was thrilled to see that uh, you know, wane madson is questioning whether, uh, rafael cruz, uh, ted cruz's father, might have had some very shady connections back in the days of the anti-cuban exiles involved with the cia and the kennedy assassination. so maybe cruz's ties to the regime go much deeper than any of us have thought. i mean, we've always known, as roger stone points out, he's a bush republican with a history of being a bush republican, but maybe he's a bush republican and even, uh, even a deeper and more important sense. but the whole the, the regime is corrupt. the deep state is corrupt, the empire is corrupt, it's economically corrupt and that, maybe, is what's going to bring it down, not only what trump and uh other people are doing it to uh make the american people feel we don't have to put up with this. we're actually not. it's not written in stone that we have to take it, we don't have to take it. so that's very, very important. but also the negative interest rates, uh, the banks getting um shakier and shakier, the dollar getting shakier, the whole, the whole world empire of finance getting shakier. this is this. you know, there's real trouble ahead on that, on that, uh, on that is when, of course, they've continued to build the police state here at home. i mean, these are really a very bad bunch of people. us government, the biggest, richest, most powerful government in the history of the world, by many magnitudes, to get stolen or whatever. uh, listally didn't try to tell you the size of your toilet tank. so we, you have the us. is it soft or not to use the word mother or father in public schools across the country on the literature. when you enroll your kids, don't use what mother or father. that's offensive. well, that would be bigoted, alex, you know that. so, no, these people, these people are, uh are, you know, just unbelievable at the whole sjw business, which is like the official, the official part of the regime. again, not saying mother and father might hurt somebody's feelings. can't say male or female, you can't say his or hers. i mean, yes, i do think there's huge opposition to it, even though it's suppressed. i think trump is calling on this opposition is helping stir it up, rise it up. you know, people get courage when somebody is, so they see somebody else speaking out, when they they know what he's saying is true. uh, this is true for ron paul. that's right, he's a bellwether. he's a bellwether on populism rising. i'm going to ask you what you would do in the economy, what a von mis institute view is on that? i want to go to some phone calls. i want to talk about political correctness as well, not just here but in europe, this true totalitarianism where they're wanting to arrest filmmakers or people that criticize radical islam. i mean it's happening in europe. they're trying to bring in here. lou rockwell is our guest. lou rockwell dot com. i'm alex jones, info wars dot com. we're going to cover a bunch of news with him straight ahead and take your phone calls, and then paul watson hosts the fourth hour from london, england. we're on the march, the empires on the run, alex jones and the gcn radio network. the day is monday, april 18th, and here's some of the latest news. it's now known that the color out lawmakers who voted to scrap the state primary in fact had cruised elegance. four state republicans voted against the bill that would allow colorado voters a chance to vote in a presidential primary, and all of them are cruise supporters, with three of them listed as members of cruises colorado leadership team, and one of them, senator kevin grantham, even had the audacity to brag about cruises quote victory on twitter, despite the fact that the voters did not get to pick a candidate. in other news, only six percent of people trust the mainstream media, putting the industry about equal to congress and well below the public's view of other organizations. this lack of confidence in establishment media is fueled by an accurate season reporting and deceptive bias. another study revealed that only 45 percent of americans- over 77 million- will not pay an income tax this year because they have no taxable income or they receive enough tax breaks or raise their liability. this has a lot about the current decline of the economy. you'd expect less tax revenue as more americans leave the job market or stay underemployed at part-time jobs. for more news or reports, visit info wars dot com. this is kit aner's reporting secret 12: info wars lives vitamin b12 formulation. most forms of vitamin b12 are highly processed and synthetic and could not be properly absorbed by the body. that's why, for real results, so many are having to turn to painful b12 injections, which are known to have higher absorption rates. info wars life dot com is excited to announce that we can bring you our most bioactive, powerful form of b12 that has been developed with our exclusive, perfected process. secret 12 is a binary of nutrimentical grade, bioavailable coenzyme forms of b12: methylcobalamin- the same kind used in b12 injections- and adenosylcobalamin. secret 12 is simply taken by mouth, right on the tongue, and then swallowed. no needles, no injections. don't take my word for it. try it for yourself. discover the secret secret 12. secure your revolutionary secret 12 formula right now at info wars life dot com or call 8882533139. info wars life secret 12. over the years, there have been a lot of powerful advancements in the field of science and nutraceuticals. young jevity integrates years of scientific research into creating fantastic products like beyond tangy tangerine, plant derived minerals and much more. young jevity also offers you an ingenious way to augment your income and, the best part, you will be helping your friends and family along the way. visit info wars team dot com today. become a member. it discounts on the amazing products and free shipping when you sign up for auto ship and you're able to promote the products to friends and family and neighbors in your community and make money while helping people at the same time- another win-win. that's why i'm a member of the young jevity team at info wars team dot com and you can be too. it's simple: just go to info wars team dot com today, complete a short sign up and you're part of the team. that's info wars team dot com or info wars health dot com. so many people call into my radio show and tell me how young jevity and the products at info wars team dot com have changed their lives. check it out for yourself today. oh, information war, it's alex jones, by the way. ladies and gentlemen, every day- i have no exaggeration- probably 15 articles that i don't even cover one of sometimes where they are trying to arrest filmmakers in america, trying to shut down talk radio openly, in newspapers, calling for you know, the time has come to shut down alex jones. he's a criminal. he wants violence. they lie incessantly. remember glenn back when he said ron paul wants to blow up buildings with a money bomb and we need to arrest him and his supporters. i'm not attacking glenn back, but i've been there. i've seen them deceive. today i was watching fox news on the elliptical this morning and they go: he's calling for violence. uh, and then they cut to the clip and it's not trump calling for violence. i have never seen the gloves off like this and they can barely try to suppress trump. i mean, it's it's neck and neck right now and it shows their power is waning. the question is: will they start a huge war or do something catastrophic like kim jung unthreatens before they get unseated from power? and the bigger question is: is it our own weakness that has empowered these people? i think it's a little bit of both. before i go any further, we have a limited edition hillary for prison shirt. that's almost like the old one. that was the last limited edition, but people really wanted us to bring it back. so we did and it's got hillary for prison 2016. looks like a campaign shirt and our camera crews are all over the country at at different political events and people are seeing them everywhere. they're getting all over the news, uh course. obviously, donald trump's talked about the shirts as well. we've got them in all sizes available, printed up and made right here in good old america. it has a 4.9 star review out of a possible five stars. that's from a third party review site, power reviews. we've got another variant of it that's also a collector's item, with her as the joker, and this is because she needs to be arrested. she's threatened everybody. she's told comedy clubs: don't make fun of me or i'll have you, you know, basically indicted or the iris will come after you. so this is our big middle finger to hillary to say: listen, we're going to exercise free speech and the moral here is so clear: you either use free speech or you lose it. it's like muscles: don't let a matrophy and know your support in the broadcast when you get the shirt. we kind of have a- not a rip off of the trump hats that come in next week. it's the same design, same company, a big old redneck hat- i love it so obnoxious- says: make america free again, because before america can be great again she must be free again. it's freedom made us so great. we weren't even that free, but compared to other countries we were, uh. so it's the idea that was great in america about its individualism: not what group you're in, not what gang, but what marlin with her king said: the content of what you actually stand for. i don't care what color you are. if you cook good food, i'm going to your restaurant. i don't care what color you are. you play good music, i'm going to hear you. i don't care what color you are. if you're a good actor, i'm going to go watch you in the movie. i mean, i love actors of every stripe and we've people fundamentally want to come together. we're tribally based, but how about a tribe based on free market economics that i want to spend a few minutes on with lure rock wall here, because it really is the answer. i mean, you study history. it's not even a comparison to fascism or marxism or linenism or all these other isms that are out there- oligarchy, any of it. it is the answer. the problem is it creates a bunch of spoiled brat kids later who get conned by the beat next and the rest of them. so we're going to talk to you in a moment, but go to infowarstorecom, get the books, get the videos. we have a big special ending today. it's a new tropic, has a whole bunch of known ingredients in it that naturally and in a healthy way boost regular brain chemistry. and it is available. the special ends: 45 percent off retail for brain force and the small profit we make funds. the operations is all about free will. the media criticizes us for selling stuff when they take taxpayer money and npr and nbc, but our listeners and viewers see through it. brain force has natural brain activation ingredients like l thinking in alpha gpc and a whole bunch of others. special ends tonight. take advantage of that today. also, sign up for our free newsletter. get exclusive content. info wars dot com forward slash newsletter, super mail and super female vitality are back in stock. dna force, our flagship rolls roice product, is back in stock as well. we have free shipping on all orders above $50 and we have 10 off when you sign up for auto ship- cancel anytime. so be sure, and check out auto ship and the free shipping functions at info wars store dot com and the sub site info wars life dot com. now going back to lou rockwell. of lou rockwell dot com and the von mis institute, the head of it, let's talk a few minutes about the solution. not crony groups, not combines, not monopolies, not one sided trade deals for insiders. tell us about lubig von mis, the von mis institute, austrian economics. let's spend five minutes on that in a few minutes. on any other subjects you want to cover and then some calls. well, alex it. you know it just has to do, as you point out, with freedom. so if we look at what has made us free, frozen up the economy, made it crony oriented, made us all significantly poorer than we would be, we are significantly poorer as a people because of the existence of all these federal programs, these federal wars. but if we have to look, what's the worst thing the government does to us? probably the federal reserve and the manipulation of the dollar, the banks, that whole apparatus bringing on recessions and depressions. we're probably in a recession right now. it's going to get worse. maybe it won't be horrifically worse and certainly hope and pray, but a lot of bad things happening economically. the government regulations that impede entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs are the spark plugs that are driving, really the driving force of an economy. the extent that they are hindered, taxed and ordered about it makes us all poorer. so all the government regulations across all the government spending, the taxation, which of course has bad civil liberties standpoint, as well as ripping as a- you know it's as well as a theft. you may get mugged on the street by a private criminal, but you're not necessarily going to, you're not going to necessarily going to ruin your whole life and change everything else. you do the government, of course, when they rip you off, when they mug you, you know, in fact, everything in your business, everything you do as an entrepreneur, has very, very bad effects. so really we need less government. maybe we're going to get less government if, if all you know, all these troubles continue this constant attack on property rights. that's what's going on in north carolina and these other states where the state government says if a restaurant wants to just have a male and female bathroom, that's fine. so they want to outlaw that and force a private restaurant to have the bathrooms that you know that. you know that katlyn jenner or whatever it would like them to have, that's just. that's talk about fascism or socialism, but that's. you know, there's very little freedom of association left in this country. we should have freedom of association. business people should be able to hire or fire whom they want, just according to the contracts they make. the government ought not to be involved. there ought to be freedom of speech, all the things that the government is attacking. that's what we need. so, just a rule of thumb: whoever the whatever the government is going after, whoever the government is demonizing, those are the people to be supported. uh, it's, i think, a a good, just a general good rule of thumb. even over that, anything the government is telling you to believe, don't believe it. anything they're telling you to do, it's not a good thing for you to do it. maybe you'll do it from a prudential standpoint because, of course, they've got the guns. we're not people of violence. that's, that's the government way. uh, we just want to educate people, we want to change hearts, we want to change minds and, by the way, as you keep pointing out, if we change enough hearts and minds, if people are willing to speak out, if they're willing to act, if they're willing to do it for themselves and their children, their grandchildren, their communities, their churches, their businesses, everything they care about and love in their lives. uh, it is actually possible to undo what's going on. we're not it's. we're not frozen with our feet in cement to put up with this right forever, it's not true? well, that's why they're trying to extinct any free market choice or any grassroots free market activity, because, you know, no one can compete with free market. that's why they have government schools and, of course, all these things from our standpoint, from the standpoint of parents and students, are a failure. they're not a failure from the standpoint of the government. the government would like to dumb us all down. they'd like to extinguish critical thinking, independent thinking, and it's all it, you know. so their failure, their great successes from the standpoint of the government, but failures from our standpoint. so we want to push back about everything the government is doing to us. they have no right to take our money to run our lives to start wars. how many millions of people has the us government killed in its career of wars, aggressive wars all over the world? tens of millions of people. i mean. we talk about the crimes of the, of the chinese communist, and we should of the soviet communist, and we definitely should of hitler and all his people. we definitely should. but the us government, uh, is one of the great butchers in the history of mankind, while, of course, going around and pretending to be morally superior. so they're not morally superior, they're morally inferior. they have to be opposed, uh, first of all in our hearts and minds, by our own learning. we have to learn something about economics, about something about politics. i totally agree, and, and the way i get socialist to wake up is explaining that most these multinationals write the laws. they're pretty much tax exempt. they're the ones pushing socialism at the grass roots to make us dependent so that we don't get uppity, so they can control and cut the cream off the top. it's crony capitalism that that these people are setting up, and then they scapegoat real free market. he's been a few minutes describing, plus history shown this. what even a little of free market does is create such renaissance. it quickly displaces the other systems, just by choice, in a bloodless revolution. that's why they act like it's the devil and want to shut it down. well, of course it's true, and even even as bad as things are today, even as corrupt and as the fascist socialist as the us government is, it's, it's the controls of the economy. there are still great things happening so we can see wonderful entrepreneurs, wonderful uh companies serving us, wonderful uh products that are available to us. there's still so much great stuff going on. but, yes, it only requires, amazingly enough, just a small change to bring on much greater prosperity. and there's no way of telling. if we uh if we had a free market economy in this country- sure we didn't have the federal car bunk over there in washington- um uh diseaseing all of us and disease in the economy. there's no telling how wealthy would. everybody would be much wealthier. there would never have been a society. the current day america would look like uh appalachia compared to what uh could be the case. so we're capable of uh socially much. and, by the way, you dig deeper: governments attacking families. it's attacking all the, all the uh indices of social health in order to make us serfs. they all. they don't want to make us poorer, they want to control us. it's the whole purpose of the immigration inundation and many other things they're doing. that's because they're scared of what they call disruptive technologies and quote empowered individuals. the pentagon even admits and jade helm. they're practicing to take over the us domestically and they say: we're worried about empowered individuals, worried about new economies and new systems we don't control. now i'm not demonizing our military itself, but the controllers are giving them that mission. you know the special forces says: uh, you know, free the oppressor, defending, oppress. they've totally turned into the opposite of that and there they are scared of the next innovation that will come from private industry in the next tinker's garage that'll overthrow all these monopolies they've created. just think about any of us who've ever had anything to do with the government, people who've been in the military. people have to deal with bureaucracy, all of us at the dmv or whatever. the government as an institution is a very stupid thing. it's just like a low iq thing. it's not only not effective, it's delivered. you know, it's massively- uh, just mass- massively destructive and stupid. whether it's bombing people, whether it's economically bombing us, uh, it's just doing horrible things. and there's, of course, a vast propaganda campaign to make you think they're doing you good and it's disconnected. you don't have, you don't know what's good for yourself, but all the creeps, the hillary's and the and the obamas and the paul ryan's and the- all the rest of you know the cruises of the world. they know what's best for you. you know what? uh, no, they don't. they're in fact your enemies. so if it doesn't show, they're airing in the right place that they would try to run hillary and jab and and everybody's face i mean, just shows they're just not well. and also, i think they're going to run. they're going to run somebody in trump's place who's going to cause a lot of trouble for them. and uh, i just hope, by the way, that trump- i wish to goodness trump- are planning right now to run as an independent. he'll still be able to run as an independent for quite a while. he runs a libertarian. they have ballot access, yeah, but the libertarians, i'm sorry to say, would never and would never nominate him. i'd like to see it, but i don't believe it's possible. he would have to, in my view, have to run as an independent. and richard winger, who's the great ballot access guy- i had a piece from him and the rockwell dot com the other day about how trump can run as an independent- also existing parties. he could get the reform party and so forth he could get on the ballot with. it is possible for him to do it. i think it's a very good thing to hold over the republican party's head, for example. i mean, he's always said from the beginning he's only staying loyal to the party and the nominee if he's treated fairly well. treated fairly, he's, you know it's he's. they put a? uh, a ball and chain around both his legs. so, um, it's he's, you know very much, uh, justified in every sense to be getting ready to run as an independent. if they steal the nomination from him, it's incredible. but i agree with you, the way he could win as an independent. i think i think they've miscalculated live. i mean, if they really. i was looking at arrogant previces like a smiling vampire on fox news. and then there's other- curly, mo huland arrogantly laugh. they really think laughing at us. what's weird is they laugh at us arrogantly, rubbing it in. it's like they're mentally ill or something. well, they, they do laugh at us. we're all laughable. we're just the peons for the cash cows where our only job is to work hard and give them the money, give them the power and let them live it up. so they're a very bad bunch. uh, i want to call curly, and all these people are, of course, uh, just typical. you're right, let's take a few calls. we're about to go to break. let's get one in now. lou rockwell's our guest. i mean: look my, my job is easy now, folks, stuff is so out in the open. since i've been on 21 years, you've been fighting tyranny for 40 years, lou, i mean, you agree with me, just briefly, that tyranny is now more brazen and open than ever? our job is easier than ever. yes, that's true, and i think more and more people are waking up. young people are especially waking up because of the, the student loans they face, the getting degrees that are totally useless in the marketplace. it's another big ripoff, of course, is the whole, the whole education system designed and run by the government, ripping off students and uh, there's, there is resistance, teaching them for an economy that doesn't even exist. kevin, in canada, you're on the air with lou rockwell. go ahead with your question or comment. i've been on x2 for two years that i've quit smoking for one year, starting this month, so i owe you a thank you for that. wow, i didn't know x2 to help with that. i mean, overall, what did? what did it do once you took it? i'm not a doctor, but my theory is: is that it's cleaned out my thyroid, which plays a huge part in your attitude, the way you feel in cravings and i figure, while i was smoking i was taking it. i didn't take it to quit smoking, but about eight months in, i hated this taste of cigarettes and it wasn't doing anything for me when i would smoke them. so literally, i quit with my best friend and it's been a year, i guess. uh, yeah, well, well, true, iodine deficiency is is is you die without it and there's no real iodine supplement out there that we discovered. that's what we made our own with top scientists. that's why it's such a huge. i'm gonna skip this network break. this is so important. i want lou to have time to get to the other point, because you were. thank you for the testimony, kevin, but that's why everybody should get x2. it is true, deep earth iodine unbound. it turns purple, blue on paper, not red. it's not bound stuff, it's. it's special and it's the good halogen. and this is a huge conspiracy. the government used to put it in the salt of a bad version, mind you, because they didn't want, you know, huge iq reductions in the country. then they started taking it out again. they put the bad halogen in the water. that's the fluoride. this is the answer to fluoride, it's x2 and it's at infowarslifecom. so thank you for the plug. but getting back to lou rockwell, it says you had a point here about senator sessions and nato control. go ahead, i mean, i mean we- uh, i watch the show quite a bit. so the video that you put out was senator sessions questioning leon panetta, secretary of defense, in regards to when united states has the authority to go to war. now, oh yes, and he said when nato gives us the authorization. he said we don't get it from congress. now, yeah, that's, that's powerful. look what trump. the powerful thing is, look what trump said about nato. he didn't put his friend down and say: well, the reason why i'm saying this is because of because of sessions. but i can almost. i can almost feel in the back of my mind that the reason why trump bring this up in the first place is because a good man, like sessions, actually bring it up to begin. well, here's the deal. i'm not going to brag, because it's actually dangerous. they pay attention now and write stories about it. but let me just tell you this: unless donald trump is the greatest actor ever and he's conning everybody behind the scenes, the last four or five years he's learned about all this stuff before he ran. i was told this by a movie star who knows trump, on records friends with him, and you know the truth is, trump is dolled into all this. he's dolled into ron paul, he's dolled into lou rockwell. he's dolled into my show. but specifically, i was told ron paul, lou rockwell and, quite frankly, i'm not going to get into it. but the trump people are obviously gonna want to reach out to lou rockwell and other people. uh, believe me, trump found out about all this like a decade ago. he didn't believe it. now he knows. it's true, he really he is an egomaniac. i mean, according to his inside sources, he does want to save the country, though he's a good egomaniac and he just doesn't like screwing people over. he loves free market. he's done some things, you know, that aren't perfect in the market. you know, once he's building something, somebody's trying to stop him. then he goes out, you know. i mean he is aggressive, alpha male. they're scared of him and the word is from a whole bunch of sources is that he and i keep getting told: watch, he's going to do this and he does it, and so- and i'm not going to talk about some of the behind-the-scenes stuff, but the point is, is that it's pretty scary to know that the establishment is this. scared is what i'm saying. uh, that's a good point he makes, though. so there are sessions that makes a big deal out of being told you don't have authority over where we go to war with the authorization to attack syria, which they finally helped defeat with ron paul's and, of course, senator paul's help, and, and, of course, ted cruz jumped on the bandwagon later. but, looking at that, knowing that he's advised by folks like sessions, that's that's a positive for me. lou rockwell, for sure. i think it is, and and uh, it's very important to go after nato. it's just one of the organization you know. and then, if albania is capable of getting the us into a third world war under this, under, under nato- and there are other organizations like this- the us has got these so-called alliances, and they're actually imperial alliances with countries all over the world. member how georgia tried to get us into war with russia. yeah, we need to get out. we need to get out of out of nato. we need a free europe. by the way, this is a method for the us to control europe. uh, they should be freed. i'm sure they're sick and tired of being us colonies, except for their. the people at the top where it goes all on the payroll- merkel, merkel and the evil merkel and the cameron and uh, halland and people of that sort- but i have a lot of people in europe- were ready for a change too. by the way, it's not just in this country. this is an international freedom movement and i want to be clear: the big mega banks that have hijacked this country- that that that you know. you know folks back to congress in the 1913 talked about. they are doing all this in our name. we're paying for it. we don't even get a benefit. and so we talk about the us occupying europe. i agree, technically that's what's happening, but at the same time, it's the very same corporate interests that are occupying europe, are occupying us. so we're all in this together. is it the brexit exciting blue rockwell? oh, i think the brexit is. i'm 100 for it. this would be so fantastic if britain gets out of the? u. the? u is an evil, uh, global government kind of institution, highly bureaucratic, ordering people around, very corrupt, very dangerous and uh, all of europe needs to get out and it's great of all the opposition in eastern europe. somehow the people who lived under communism are more freedom oriented than the people further west, uh, so maybe less, because they've already enjoyed the total hungry in poland and uh, slovakia, check republic and so forth. maybe these countries are gonna save europe, maybe they're gonna set a good example for us, and just you know, i propose that your- your collars point, alex, is so important to free yourself to the extent you can from the medical monopoly. you know obama care and all that uh is dangerous to your health. the extent you can be independent, that you can take care of your own health- uh, very, very important. so don't just don't be a shill for the government in that way either. uh, that's all about obama care is designed to sicken you, to get rich off you, not to cure you of anything asked about. you know about, uh, you know, trump being an alpha male. what you know, uh, what is wrong with that? isn't it nice to have a masculine guy rather than a metrosexual? i mean, it seems to me trump. trump is a nice change and i think it's why, by the way, he appeals to women much more than you would learn from the media, although i think we all know what did i see? just the other six percent of americans say they fully trust the media and i guess they probably all work, for that's good news. the only thing more popular than the government, with a nine percent gallup, was the media, at six exactly, and there's another poll too. the media is the government. i mean, the media is connected to the government just as surely as pravda and uh nazi papers and communist papers all over the world were connected to their governments. so they've really only collapsed and to be independent. but of course they're not. they've already collapsed, they just don't seem to know it yet, like zombies. thank you, kevin, let's talk to john and texas. you're on the air with lou rockwell, lou rockwell dot com. hi elix, go ahead, brother. the communist goals, which is part of the congressional record. right at the top of the communist goals it says: promote free trade and in fact all of our manufacturing jobs went over there. that evil communist police state in china to build them up into the first class superpower is the greatest act of treason and servant under this country. but that's not real free trade. i mean, when china has a 35 percent economic currency tariff on us, it's not free trade. when they don't have the same standards as we do, they put them on us. that's not free trade. so people get confused by this and think: well then, why is alex jones and ron paul lou rockwell for free? i'm for open trade as long as it's a good deal. uh, well, what's your specific point? john will let lou rockwell respond here in closing. well, i just thought that was one of the big acts of treason- the fact that the free trade agreement was used to arm up china into a first-rate superpower, and one-sided deal, though, wasn't a fair trade. absolutely it was a one-sided deal, and i mean, what would you say about that? how do you gauge that? i would say, by the way, just i might make the point that china's military budget is less than 10 of the us's, so it's not, it's. it's not a first-class superpower. uh, it's just another thing. they're wanting to gin up. they want a war with russia and china. hillary has talked about this cruise. oh yeah, china is teetering on the verge of total collapse. it would like a world war. so what is free trade? i do believe in free trade, although you know, just like george hw bush and george w bush and obama talk about freedom. they mean, of course, anti-freedom. uh, they talk about free trade, they mean anti-free trade. what is free trade means? if i'm a businessman i can sell my goods to somebody in germany or china or mexico or any other place and i can buy from there without the government interfering. it doesn't mean these managed trade treaties that are designed to, like nafta, to benefit the crony- 14 000 pages long. that's not free, it's a screw job. i actually looked through nafta. i spent a whole day the terrible time about wasting a day going through the nafta treaty and of course it was just full of how they're going to benefit caterpillar or westinghouse or blue. this is too important. do five more. i know you got to go, but we're back in 70 seconds. do five more with us. finish up on a guy: when he was in congress dug through nafta, literally a room full of crap. we'll be back in 70 seconds. fourth hour: paul watson will come in from london in about eight minutes. radio network: anthony good shard here with an info wars health news update with alex jones. that's right, anthony. one of our top selling products is brain force. it is very affordably priced at retail that we normally discount it. we've discounted from the discount 25 percent, but if you count it from its regular price, that's 45 percent discount for a limited time at info wars live dot com. there are a lot of brain boosters out there, or what's known as new tropics, but here's what separates brain force from the rest. unlike some energy drinks and supplements, brain force uses natural brain activation ingredients like gerba mate extract, alpha gpc, elphianine, hypozine, a, phosphatidylserine, b12 and many others. major nutraceutical review sites rave about this formulation and they also rave about the price. secure your brain force today at info wars live dot com and get 45 off retail, 25 off the regular sales price on brain force for a limited time at info wars live dot com or by calling toll three, eight, eight, eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine. you're listening to the alex jones show live from the info wars dot com studios. it's alex jones, all right, final segment that i'm hot showing here that paul watson's taken over. i'm gonna take maybe one more call, but get him back to rockwell. look at nafta, look at- yeah, look at the tpp. if they got away with that, you know why not just go ahead and cancel elections. foreign groups write some multi thousand page piece of garbage, 200 pages of summary, and then we can't see it till it's already globally passed and then ted cruz votes to fast track it but claims he's against it when his wife helped write it. if i'm ashamed of anything we rock, well, it's this. i've been neutral on ted cruz because of how he was acting in the senate on a few issues. but, man, if he isn't a bush rock, a fellers sleeper cell, nobody is texas. he was the solicitor general of the bush, of george h, george w bush. uh, then he got a job through the bush administration at the federal trade commission. the federal- the federal bush administration is versus the state bush administration. uh, he and his wife are heralded as the first bush campaign marriage, that they were both working for george w bush and they got married and, uh, these, these people and a christians, a total busher. and uh, this is the fourth, fourth term. yeah, well, i mean, cruz cruz is, uh, the cruz is a very bad guy. it's not a coincidence. he looks like a vampire. well, they say he's completely hateful and cold and person, but acts all nice on the surface. well, all he needs is a set of fangs and we'll know who he is. lou rockwell, getting back to nafta and the thousands of pages of that and other key tidbits, we really appreciate your time. well it's. you know, i, as i mentioned, i i actually went through the whole nafta. you, as you say, we, we're not allowed to look through the tpp agreement, uh, but uh, i look through the. in those days- certainly freer days- i was able to look through the whole thing and it consisted of nothing but special deals, just as you might expect. special crony deals, um, they didn't mean. for example, here's free trade with mexico. i can drive my car to mexico, fill it up with goods, bring it back and wave at the border guards on the way in. that's free trade, because that's not what's allowed. everything has to be operated through the crony banks, through the crony companies, the other ones who benefit, and regular americans get the short end of the stick, as is always the case. here's a quick example. here's a quick example: very bad deals, very bad deals. i was going to buy my dad like a $1,200- you know, one of the cheaper tag here- watches, one of the sports ones, and i'm in cancun about six months ago. i'm buying it. and then when i came back through, i'd written it down. but they knew in the computer what i'd bought and got in my face at the border, and so i went and looked it up. all that's database between the us and mexico. that's the opposite of free trade under napton. get well, it's just. it's just fascism, i mean, it's just surveillance, it's the surveillance state. talk about something else. evil they're doing. uh, every, every where you look in american society, the government is the enemy. the government is hurting us. they're ripping us off, they're destroying us. they're destroying our economic futures, they're destroying our children's futures. they're destroying education. they're destroying families. a $1,200 watch is on a computer screen. it customs, but they can't stop the illegals. you know, i'm sure even you, knowing what you know, would be shocked if you could see what your dossier looks like and how much they know in what detail. that's true of all of us. they have unbelievable details on every aspect of our lives, but we know nothing about them. they're more secretive than ever. as rumpal always says, there should be the opposite, should be total transparency for the government. let's have a camera in the white house and so forth, but we should have no transparency whatsoever, except what we voluntarily give up. so we should have total privacy. they total transparency. of course. it's, uh, just the opposite. privacy is our greatest asset. we're naked before them. they're able to pull off any scam, any ripoff, any theft, any corruption, any uh horrible tyranny, and tell us it's good for us. wow, yeah, all right. lou rockwell, powerful interview. thank you for the time, sir. look forward to thank you very soon. great to be with you. thank you, uh blah. tell you we can only get ron paul to at least come out and say that he supports free and open elections and doesn't like what's happening to trump. and i know little birdies that are working on it. ladies and gentlemen, paul, joseph watson, from her botanic majesties all beyond, straight ahead. today is monday, april 18th, and here's some of the latest news. it's now known that the color out lawmakers who voted to scrap the state primary are, in fact, had cruised elegance. four state republicans voted against the bill that would allow colorado voters to chance to vote in a presidential primary, and all of them are cruise supporters, with three of them listed as members of cruises colorado leadership team, and one of them, senator kevin grantham, even had the audacity to brag about cruises quote victory on twitter, despite the fact that the voters did not get to pick a candidate. in other news, only six percent of people trust the mainstream media, putting the industry about equal to congress and well below the public's view of other organizations. this lack of confidence in establishment media is fueled by an accurate season reporting and deceptive bias. another study revealed that only 45 of americans- over 77 million- will not pay an income tax this year because they have no taxable income or they receive enough tax breaks or raise their liability. this says a lot about the current decline of the economy. you'd expect less tax revenue as more americans leave the job market or stay underemployed at part-time jobs. for more news and reports, visit info wars dot com. this is kitty anus reporting. uh yeah. first of all, i want to say six or twelve, actually two, super male brain force, prostagart, silver bullet- i use them all. they're phenomenal, they work by info. thank you, brother, thank you guys for putting those out there. i am a relatively short time listener and i'm a quite a supporter of your fine, fine products. um, welcome to the info war. it's so easy to get these incredible nutraceuticals that support your health and the info war at the same time. i'm a nine-year listener. i buy all the nutraceuticals. apio effects- uh, nason i got. let me ask you a question: have they worked for you. they're the most unbelievable products i've ever had in my life. what products are you taking? are you taking everything from? uh, super male to brain force to winter sun? uh x2, even got a little a dna force so, and i just re-upped everything and i just went to autofill. visit info wars live dot com to read the information and research and to see the reviews for yourselves. that's info wars lives dot com, or call 888-253-3139. info wars life dot com. oil of oregano formulation. we have now procured the most high quality and potent forms of oregano oil on the market: a highly advanced nutraceutical form of this key ur that has been traditionally used by civilizations for thousands of years to promote health. sourced from top leading manufacturers to ensure a concentrated level of bioactive ingredients. extracted directly from the wild herb and sealed in easy to use capsules. you will no longer need to endure the burning of liquid oregano on the tongue. used since before the days of the roman empire to support the body's natural systems and enhance overall health. wild crafted from the Mediterranean oregano species that experts agree is one of the most powerful and most challenging to acquire. this winter season, it's more important than ever to secure this true form of oil of oregano, now available at info wars life dot com. that's info wars life dot com, or call 888-253-3139. another world, another time in the age of wonder. if you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance live from austin, texas, broadcasting worldwide. it's alex joe. we are back is the fourth hour overdrive of the alex joe show. i'm paul joseph watson, and while americans are still talking about colby bryant, the elite are preparing for complete bedlam and mayhem. of course, we had the report last week surrounding the company that's building luxury underground bunkers for the ultra wealthy, to quote, protect high net worth individuals from the general public- that's you and me. does that mean that you know mass civil unrest is going to happen next week, next month, even next year? no, but it tells us that the elite are preparing for something big. they see this global political awakening that's a big new brzezinski talked about years ago. they see it going hot. they see it going violent all around the world and even in the west, which is why, you know, as of last year, we had the news story about the elite buying strips of land, remote property, in new zealand. that came out of the davos economic forum last january- january 2015- and members of the elite were a lot, were asked why they were doing this and they said basically: well, we're afraid of ferguson style riots and mass civil unrest arising in the west and of course, with this rising wealth inequality, it makes that kind of social disorder more likely. so we've got this huge story which just went up on info wars dot com about an hour ago: top insurer warns global civil unrest could go viral. that's not alex jones saying that, that's not me saying that. it's loins, one of the biggest insurers in the world, warning that quote pandemic of global civil unrest could go viral, threatening international stability. this is a report that's being sent out to the mega wealthy, just come out today. it was commissioned- uh, they loins- commissioned leading risk management consultancy, the risk advisory group, to produce a report analyzing what factors could prompt the spread of civil unrest around the world. the report found that quote instances of political violence contagion are becoming more frequent and the contagion effects ever more rapid and powerful, with the head of exposure management and reinsurance, trevor maynard, warning that global outbreaks of violence are increasingly likely to develop into- quote pandemics- that's their word- pandemics of civil unrest. they're talking about a transformation which will lead to- quote- widespread disruption, yet prove extremely difficult to anticipate. so this is going to go global. they talk about jihadists in the middle east, they talk about the arab spring and they kind of tie the two together. of course, we've also had reports about crack us troops being repositioned in major cities, cities around the world, for this very express purpose: to deal with mass civil unrest. we already see it happening in places like brazil, we've seen it in japan, hong kong, over the past couple of years and of course we're seeing it in europe. we're seeing warnings of civil war from the head of the swiss army, the head of the norwegian police, people in prominent people in sweden, prominent security experts in germany and france warning those national governments that this migrant crisis, which has been created by the elite, their policies led to it, will lead to a clash of civilizations. whether that turns out to be, you know, some holocaust remains to be seen. obviously that's very unlikely. but they say, the middle class, as a result of being censored and lectured all day about being racist- racist if they so much as criticize- this migrant issue- is becoming- quote- radicalized and that's going to lead to a clash with these millions of migrants they're bringing in, who are already rioting with each other as we will get on too shortly, but this is a huge report. again, loids, one of the top insurers in the world, is saying that nobody has adequately prepared for this mass civil unrest that's coming. we've had the story about the elite buying bunkers. again, it doesn't mean that absolute mayhem is going to happen tomorrow, but they again cite the reason why they're buying these. you know, luxury survival bunkers is not only civil unrest, the prospect for social disorder, but also natural disasters. we see what's going on in japan, where there's been a spate of earthquakes, also an earthquake in ecuador, and people genuinely worried about what could happen next in terms of natural disasters. and that is another reason cited as to why the elite are buying these secure underground luxury bunkers in safe locations away from these potential disaster zones. so again, the elite are getting prepared. whenever, you know, preppers are in the news. whenever national geographic does a series about preppers, they're ridiculed, they're lambasted as kooks, as freaks, and yet we have the global elite, the mega rich, doing exactly the same thing, but on an even bigger level. i mean, they're talking about, you know, 4 000 square foot underground luxury apartments. but you know bobber in idaho is the kook for having his little 12 foot by 10 foot bomb shelter. so again this whole narrative that preppers are insane, they're crazy, they're paranoid, and yet the elite is doing the exact same thing, only on a bigger level. so this is a huge report. get this article out, share it. of course it ties in with the report we had last week out of the chicago tribune, which was about how millionaires were fleeing the city of chicago, again in line with what's happening in major cities in europe. paris and roam are also seeing a mass exodus of millionaires. we have wealthy elites in new york city, in other major american cities, installing panic rooms into their big city apartments because, again, they fear civil unrest. they fear race riots, which have been exacerbated by these violent radical leftists. like black lives matter, buying land strips, buying remote houses in new zealand- whether it's going to happen or not, they're going to be prepared for it. so if anyone lectures you about how paranoid and kooky you are about buying, you know, three, six months worth of storable food just in case, then throw this back in their face. the global mega rich are preparing for this. they're spending tens of millions of dollars. i mean the elite in london, where i live, have stopped buying high-end luxury properties. they're down in some areas 33 percent over the past couple of years. all the mega rich in london and other european cities are going back to renting because again, they're getting an inkling of this global economic collapse, this second downturn that's just around the corner. so they're making financial moves, they're making practical moves to prepare for this again, while the general public is laughed at for having three months worth of storable food and a water filter. now let's look at what's happening in belgium. of course we had the brussels attacks back a few weeks ago. this is out of our tea. many danced after attacks. muslim integration failure caused cancer. that's not tommy robinson saying that, that's not poor joseph watson saying that, it's not stefan molyneux saying that, that's the belgian interior minister. belgium's integration policy has caused a cancer within muslim communities. many of whom quote danced after the deadly brussels attacks last month, said the belgian interior minister, blaming the government for failing to integrate migrants into society. now we go back to the isis manifesto from a few months ago where they said: we're going to exploit this refugee wave to infiltrate migrants, create more of these radicalized ghettos, arm them and use them as sleeper cells to carry out further terror attacks in europe. of course, we had the raid on abdeslam, one of the uh assailants involved in the paris massacre. how was he able to hide away in mollambique for a period of over three months? because he was supported by a network of friends and neighbors who advocated his goals after he'd been involved in the massacre of over 200 people in paris, after he had been involved in plotting the brussels massacre. again, this is a network of islamists that surround the ghettos. so, no, it's not a tiny proportion of muslims who are the problem, it's a significant percentage, as we saw with the poll last week, which caused a lot of controversy in the uk. there was a program on channel four called what muslims really think, and again it simply restated the facts that i've stated over and over again: that many of them, in some cases the majority, have completely intolerant beliefs that are incompatible with western secular, liberal societies. and now that has manifested itself in belgium, with them actually celebrating, dancing on the streets, people being blown apart, limbs being scattered everywhere in belgium- in brussels airport, in the metro station, you know. dozens of people dead, dozens more injured. belgium muslims were on the street celebrating. you had children in classrooms celebrating, just like after 9- 11, even though the media called it a conspiracy theory when trump brought it up, there were people- there were muslims in new jersey celebrating 9- 11- multiple anecdotal reports. we had people on the radio the same day saying they drove past muslim areas, saw them high fiving, saw them celebrating. trump mentions it and the media claims it's a huge conspiracy theory, even though it was documented at the time and then subsequently more people came out and said that, yes, they saw the same thing. in an interview with a belgium newspaper, jan jan bond said that he regretted that a significant proportion of the muslim community had been- quote- dancing in the streets following the attacks on march 22nd, which 32 innocent victims and three suicide bombers were killed and over 300 people injured. and, of course, it was the mayor of mollambique that was handed a list of jihadists and islamists by the police, who said: this is a major problem, it's going to lead to an attack. what you're going to do about it? she basically bowed to political correctness and said: i can't do anything about it. this isn't my job. and of course, several of the people on that list went on to take part in the paris massacre. we'll be back with more news after the break. this is the alex joneshow fourth hour overdrive. stay right there. we'll be back. wildfires, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, a crashing economy. are you ready? at best, your local stores have a three-day supply of food. will your family have to fight over what's left? are you willing to gamble your family's safety that it'll never happen to you? be wise and be ready with 25 year shelf life wise food storage. wise food storage provides affordable, ready-made gourmet meals with a super long, 25 year shelf life. meals like pasta, alfredo cheesy lasagna, breakfast, dessert, drinks and snacks. just add water and your family is eating delicious food instead of fighting for scraps in a food riot. try it free. order a no obligation free sample meal, delivered right to your front door and for a limited time. get a 10 discount and free shipping on all orders. once done, you're set for 25 years. be wise and be ready with wise food storage. call for your free sample now. 800-803-5505- 800-803-5505- paid non-attorney spokesperson ivc filter. justice is responsible for the content of this ad. this ad is not legal advice and the choice of a lawyer should not be based solely upon advertisements. service may not be available in all states. attention: if you were a loved one, had a medical procedure to prevent blood clots from traveling to the harder brain. please stand by for a very important message. ivc filters are commonly inserted to prevent blood clots from traveling to the heart or lungs, but now the fda warns that these ivc filters may cause serious complications, such as heart damage, loin damage, danger from rupture, internal bleeding, even death. you could be entitled to a cash settlement, but you must call now. time is limited for these claims. call the attorneys at ivc filter justice for a free evaluation of your case. that's right. a free evaluation of your case. get the compensation you deserve. call today. call the attorneys at ivc filter justice for a free, confidential consultation. don't fight this alone. call 1-800-933-7789. time is limited for these claims. call for a free evaluation of your case. it's urgent that you act soon. that's 1-800-933-7789, 1-800-933-7789. i'm nick sobolesky, a select quote agent with a true story of how select quote goes to bat for you buying term life insurance. a while back, a man called me who had had prostate cancer. he asked if i could beat a very high quote another life insurance agent had given him. i said let me see. well, i took his pertinent information, then shopped the highly rated, price competitive companies we represent and found one who pre approved him for a premium way below what he had been quoted. when it comes to term life insurance, no other company touches select quotes: experience and expertise, and finding the right policy at the right price for almost anyone. how about you for your free quote? call 1-800-654-1632- that's 1-800-654-1632, 1-800-654-1632, or go to select quote dot com. we shop, you save. this is not an offering to sell a franchise. franchise offerings are made through the franchise disclosure document. are you one of the 70% of americans who hate their jobs? do you wish you could work for yourself, but don't know what to do? then we have a proven solution for you: a budget blinds franchise opportunity. our franchise owners enjoy freedom and flexibility, as well as the unlimited income potential of owning their own home-based business. and right now you have the opportunity to join our low investment franchise network. budget blinds has been an established name for over 20 years. when you join our franchise, you get all the benefits of a well-known national brand, plus the added benefit of nearly 10 million dollars in marketing to help drive customers to you. don't wait another year to make a change. transform your career and enjoy a flexible lifestyle by owning your own successful business. call budget blinds today. but hurry, franchise opportunities in this area are limited. call 1-800-215-33-34. that's 1-800-215-33-34, 1-800-215-33-34. we've been trying to do the wine. we are back for the election, for power overdrive, and the belgium interior minister has said that. blindingly obvious that muslim migrants, on integrating into society, forget the millions of new arrivals. these are people who have been there for years and years. they were dancing on the streets when the brussels attack happened. they were pelting the police with bottles and stones when they tried to arrest one of the individuals, abdeslam, who was involved in the paris massacre. okay, it's not a tiny fringe minority. this is a huge problem and it's not a problem that europe has with people coming in from other backgrounds. you know there's a lot of Sikhs in the united kingdom. there's a lot of hindu people. we don't have these, this kind of problem. we don't have no go areas where hindus and Sikhs are pelting the police with bottles. you know firefighters who try to put out fires. they get in attack. this is happening in France. it's happening in sweden. they call it a conspiracy theory and yet the riots keep on happening. in fact, we had another one back at the end of last week. shocking video shows hundreds of migrants brawling at paris metro station. two people have been seriously injured and a historic paris metro station trashed after two. massive brawls are up to between hundreds of migrants on thursday night and you can go and watch the video. it's in the article. again, this is not the first time it's happened. it happens all the time at these migrant camps throughout europe and in many cases, the police. now it's so common that they just refuse to go there. you have migrants raping young muslim girls. you have migrants killing their own wives, and this is before they've even been let loose into the general society. this is what they do amongst each other. it's clearly not working. dancing in the streets after the brussels attacks: you know, i've talked about the statistics before. just in belgium. belgium: six percent muslim population. the prison population of belgium is 45 percent muslim. that's how much that over represented in terms of criminal behavior. you can look at the welfare state again. you know: six, seven, eight percent muslims in sweden. yet foreign immigrants represent the majority of welfare payments. so this crap. they trot out again and again that we need these waves of migrants to do jobs because you know we're dying out. we need this input of labor. simply not true, the majority of them go on welfare. 800 million muslims are illiterate. they can't even get to grips with their own language. how are they going to get to grips with ours? how are they going to assimilate? so we see more and more of this social unrest, these riots taking place. then we have this article: finished migrants posed with preteen girlfriends on social media. oh, another wonderful piece of cultural enrichment. images surfaced on the finished image board, lia luta, of finished migrants and their preteen white girlfriends posing on instagram and facebook. in the finished city of sarjavi, the men of arab descent in their 20s to 40s are seen posing with the young girls with captions such as beautiful, my baby and i love you. and again, bearing in mind that these people follow a religion in which muhammad married a nine-year-old girl, married a six-year-old girl, concentrated the marriage when she was nine. this is the background they come from. we have the mass rape in cologne, several other major european cities. we have children being attacked in these migrant camps and now they're posing on social media with preteen girlfriends, men as old as 40. and what's most shocking about this is that they asked the parents what the hell was going on. the parents of these preteen finish: girls posing with arab migrants who said they were their girlfriends. they went and asked the parents what was going on and they basically said: oh, they're just friends. it's no big deal some 40 year old guys hanging out with your 11 year old daughter, calling her my baby, and it's no big deal. these people are seriously deranged. i mean, if ever there's a need for child protective services, then this is it. meanwhile, you know, they take away children from loving foster homes just because the foster parents supported ukip, a political party that was anti-immigration. but it's perfectly fine to have your preteen daughter posing on social media with 40 year old arab men who call them my baby. i mean, how frigging sick is that? and the parents are just like. well, god forbid, someone might call us racist. it's perfectly fine that some weird 40 year old man who can barely speak english, you know, being in the country a few months- he's hanging out with that 11 year old daughter. i mean i've never seen something this shocking. this is in, this is in finland. it's also happening in austria- absolutely despicable. we'll get more into this after the break. we're also going to talk about the latest controversy with the north carolina bathroom bill. we'll be right back. keep it locked in. we're on the march, the empires on the run, alex jones and the gcn radio network. today is monday, april 18th, and here's some of the latest news. it's now known that the colorado lawmakers who voted to scrap the state primary in fact had cruised elegance. four state republicans voted against the bill that would allow colorado voters to chance to vote in a presidential primary, and all of them are cruise supporters, with three of them listed as members of cruises colorado leadership team, and one of them, senator kevin grantham, even had the audacity to brag about cruises quote victory on twitter, despite the fact that the voters did not get to pick a candidate. in other news, only six percent of people trust the mainstream media, putting the industry about equal to congress and well below the public's view of other organizations. this lack of confidence in establishment media is fueled by an accurate season reporting and deceptive bias. another study revealed that only 45 percent of americans over 77 million will not pay an income tax this year because they have no taxable income or they receive enough tax breaks or raise their liability. this has a lot about the current decline of the economy. you'd expect less tax revenue as more americans leave the job market or stay underemployed at part-time jobs. for more news or reports, visit info warscom. please listen carefully because i'm about to point out three things that will save you a lot of money while you get high quality products and fund the info war. a 360 win. number one: when you choose auto ship before checkout. we give you. number three: we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50. listeners have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that you need each month. just go to info wars storecom, select your favorite product or products, click on auto ship and choose how often you want us to send you another order. as you know, i coined the term 360 win and with the new auto ship feature in informerslifecom, this is a sure win. 10 off on auto ship. win, win, win, win at info warslifecom. free shipping on orders above 50 bucks and all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for auto ship. when cells become toxic, they die early and aging sets in. no one has put together a formula that focuses directly on brain health, nerve growth factors and optimizing your cellular energy. at the same time, just one of the key compounds, bio pqq, is backed by major clinical studies. you want the best that's out there at the lowest price anywhere. we now have the synergistic solution. secure your dna force today at info warslifecom or call toll free 888 253 3139. shower filters. we're introducing the best yet: the brand new pro pure pro max high performance shower filter. it removes and reduces over 200 contaminants while preserving a strong, powerful flow. this new four stage filtration process helps protect the largest organ in your body, your skin- from the unhealthy contaminants in the water. you can find more details on this amazing new filter and free shipping at info wars storecom, or call triple 8253 3139 to order your pro max shower filter from pro pure today. Waging war on corruption, it's alex jones coming to you live from the front lines of the info war. Now, of course, liberals continue to freak out over these bathroom bills that are either in the process of passing or have passed in several states, and of course, the main battlefront is north carolina. they passed a bill called hb2, which would- god forbid- require people to use public bathrooms that correspond with the gender they were born. now, this was a reaction. it was a defensive measure against an ordinance in charlotte which would have forced private businesses to cater for transgender people and allow them to use whichever bathroom they like, depending on which gender they identify on that particular day. so this was a complete violation of the rights of private businesses, similar to what we've seen with christian bakeries. of course we've had gay activists go out and try and ruin people's lives. this was this was a vindictive measure. it wasn't a random occurrence in several examples where they go to a christian bakery, ask for a gay wedding cake and they're refused because the owners say: sorry, that doesn't accord with our beliefs. we politely reject you know, we suggest you go somewhere else. of course, steven crowded did that in michigan. he went to a bunch of muslim owned bakeries and asked for a gay wedding cake. they refused, but there was no national hounding campaign. there was no national scandal surrounding that. so again, it's one rule for one set of people and another rule for another set of people. so they passed this bill in north carolina- there are similar bills in other states- and all it said was: in public bathrooms you have to use the bathroom which corresponds with your biological gender, which is on your birth certificate. they said: if you're a private business, feel completely free to provide transgender bathrooms or to allow transgender identifying people to use whichever bathroom they choose. so in a sense, it was a defense of rights in terms of the majority, whereas the charlotte ordinance was a violation of people's rights to cater for a minority, bearing in mind zero, point zero. three percent of the us population identifies as transgender- a tiny minority. and the point i made in a video that i put out about this is if you make the effort to look, if you're a man and you want to be a woman and you make the effort to look like a woman, then nobody is even going to notice, if you use the female bathroom, of course, what this will do- and it's already had this effect in several cases which i talk about in the video- it basically it's a loophole to allow perverts and freaks to go into women's bathrooms, and i'm not just saying that for effect. it already happened in seattle back a couple of months ago. there was a man who, quote, made no verbal or physical attempt to identify as a woman. you know, he didn't even make the effort to put on a wig. he walked into a female bathroom in seattle and began to undress as a man. he didn't even look like a woman, but again he cited the law- quote: the law has changed and i have a right to be here. that's what this hairy creep said as he walked into a women's bathroom and began to undress. so again, this is what this kind of ordinance that we saw in charlotte is going to to make more likely. it's basically a red carpet for perverts and pedophiles. you had the case in colorado where teen girls complained about a- quote- transgender student who kept entering the girls changing room. they were threatened with hate crimes charges for doing so. so again, violating the privacy rights, violating the private business rights, the private religious rights of people- the majority- to cater for this tiny, tiny minority- 0.03 percent of the population. you know people like the, the guy who we featured a few months ago, who left his wife and family to become a woman and now now identifies as a six-year-old girl- and he's in the clip. you can go and watch the video. you know, if he identifies as a six-year-old girl, shouldn't he be allowed to use the children's playground? shouldn't he be allowed to use the children's locker room? you know a 55-year-old guy with a beard. doesn't really look much like a woman, but he identifies as a woman and he also identifies as a six-year-old child. so are you committing hate speech, are you violating his rights by saying that he, as a biological 55-year-old man, shouldn't be allowed to go into a children's locker room? this is the abuse that this is opening up the potential for it. but it's no surprise, you know, given that the left is now beginning to hail, as we predicted all along, pedophilia as an alternative sexual lifestyle choice. they're actually giving pedophiles platforms on saloncom to argue that they're just victims of right-wing bigotry and that their sexual preference should just be accepted in the same way that being gay is accepted. so it's no surprise that the left is really again laying down the red carpet for pedophiles, for perverts, to abuse this kind of situation. and then you have, of course, the virtue signaling on steroids that's taking place. you had Ringo Starr cancel a gig in North Carolina to protest against this bathroom bill. now, he didn't cancel a gig in Russia, where they actually arrest gay people for protesting on the streets. oh no, only in North Carolina. you had PayPal come out and say they were withdrawing plans for an operation centering North Carolina that would have employed 400 people, with the justification quote: this is from the CEO, PayPal's, Dan Shulman: the new law perpetuates discrimination and it violates the values and principles that are at the core of PayPal's mission and culture. that's what they said when they decided to pull this 400 people operations unit in North Carolina to protest against this bathroom bill, again citing their values and principles. those values and principles don't get in the way of PayPal doing business in Saudi Arabia, a country that beheads homosexuals. the virtue signaling kind of disappears when it comes to Middle Eastern countries, of course, because they can do no wrong. you had Coca-Cola, Starbucks, Microsoft, Google- all signing this letter decrying the North Carolina bill. yet they all do business in Q8, where cross-dressing is punishable by up to 10 years in prison. they didn't sign off on a letter condemning Q8. no, they only signed off on a letter condemning North Carolina because, again, god forbid- people will have to use the bathroom that correlates with their biological gender. Cirque du Soleil: they've cancelled shows in North Carolina over this bathroom bill. they haven't cancelled shows in Dubai, where being transgender is illegal, where people go to prison for this, but again, there's no virtue signaling when it comes to Dubai because, of course, that's a vastly more lucrative market. these companies have no principles whatsoever. this is all about virtue signaling. but I go back to the point. this is nothing to do with human rights. this was a defensive measure against an ordinance which, if it would have, you know, taken effect and become a pretext for the rest of the state, would have forced private businesses to adhere to this rule of allowing people who identify as transgender to use whichever bathroom they liked. now I don't care if you identify as Barney the purple dinosaur, but when government conspires to violate the rights of the majority to be politically correct and please a tiny minority, that's a huge problem. you don't let people who identify as six-year-old girls when they're 55 year old men use children's changing rooms, so why should you allow people who, maybe on a whim, identify as being female- female even though they're male- use the female locker room? now we're going to go to this video which ties into this. this is by youtuber joey salads, who we featured on info warscom before he does these social experiments where he puts these you know liberal sacred cows to the test. he did one a couple of weeks ago where he went out and tried to ascertain who was the most violent: Trump supporters or Bernie Sanders supporters. of course, he ended up getting physically attacked by Bernie Sanders supporters because they're vile, intolerant, hateful people, as our reporters have proven over and over again in Portland, New York and other areas over the past couple of weeks. so he basically went out and did a video testing this bathroom bill and now for you know people listening on the radio who've only got the audio- he basically just dressed up as a woman and followed women into female bathrooms to get their reaction- their organic, natural reaction- to a guy with facial hair who is dressed up as a woman, following them into the female bathroom. this is a four minute clip here. it is what's up, guys. joey salads here in north Carolina passed a bill that requires trans people to use the bathrooms that correspond with the sex listed on their birth certificate. a reset to a trans friend of mine and a doctor whom I'm also friends with, and both had some contradicting points. my trans friends told me that nobody is born to a sex or a gender and that gender and sex are a social construct and that dna and genetics have nothing to do with your sex. my doctor said that dna and genetics have everything to do with your gender at birth. you either become a male or a female. with help of my trans friend. today i'm going to dress and act like a transgender. i'm then going to enter women's bathrooms and let's see how they react. all right, guys. so i'm about to make my transformation to look like a transgender. now i know that dressing up like a girl doesn't necessarily make me transgender. it would just make me a cross dresser. but on the outside, people will still think that i'm transgender. i got this information from my transgender friend and it is transgender approved. how about? look? oh my god, joe, you look fabulous. i got my transgender friend on the phone and i'm going to see what they think about my dress. so it looks good. do i have, do i? is it transgender approved? all right, well, i also found out through the transgender community that some of them actually keep their voice the same way. so, going through the requirement checklist- penis, you're allowed to have. voice, you're allowed to have. technically speaking, i would be considered somebody just starting their transgender transformation. let's go- uh, let's go- into some girls bathrooms to see what they think. what are you doing? i'm transgender, what? no, you can't be in here, but this is a girl's bathroom. i identify as a girl. you're not. do you hear yourself right now? you are not a woman. you have such. i am a girl, transgender. we could, we could stay with our regular voice, what doesn't make any sense. you definitely have a penis. you need to come here. i do have a penis, but i identify as a girl, so i'm allowed in here. why not? i'm a girl. no, you can't be in here, but i'm a girl. you can't just say: you're a girl, all right, i'm gonna, i'll get out, i'll let you be. i'm trans. you're a guy, get out of here. but i identify as a girl. why can't i be disgusting? get the out of here usually. okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, hello, oh, hi, how are you good? are you transgender? yeah, yeah, oh, good for you. thanks. how long have you been transgendered for you just started like a couple days ago. oh, yeah, yeah, i gotta go. i'm gonna go right now. hey, get out. get out, i'm transgender. what are you doing in here? i'm transgender, i'm a girl. no, no, no, i'm a girl. why it's not okay? it's not okay, i'm a girl. thank you guys for watching, please, this video. like, share and subscribe. and, as you can tell from this video that most women are not comfortable sharing a bathroom with a trans person, there has to be another solution for this debate, because women are not comfortable sharing a bathroom and a trans people want to share the bathroom. so there needs to be a better solution. comment below what you think the solution needs to be. do you think that trans people should be allowed to use the bathrooms on what they associate themselves with, or do you think they need to use the bathrooms on what my doctor calls what they biologically associate with? i'm joey salads. thanks for watching. tell you the truth, okay, and that was in hollywood. so that's how liberal women react to transgender men going into the female bathroom. so they're going to virtue signal about it all day in opposing this north carolina bathroom bill. but when it's actually put to the test and a guy with a wig walks into the female bathroom, that is how they react. very telling, but of course you know that's being transphobic. but the christian bakery whose business was destroyed because it refused to make a gay wedding cake- they're bad, even though you know steven crowded- went in- did the same experiment with muslim bakeries. they refused to make the cake and again nothing happened. so again that video by joey salads- which is an exclusive he gave it to us first- it's going up on youtube in a moment again proves that when liberals react to a man walking into a woman's bathroom, that's the natural organic reaction you're going to get. and that's what's going to happen if these ordinances, like the one in charlotte, are passed. so again, given that evidence, the north carolina bathroom bill makes perfect sense and you can go watch my video about it. it's linked from the alex jones channel about this transgender bathroom controversy. let's get back into some more news now. of course, before the previous segment i was talking about muslims in brussels who were dancing on the street celebrating the brussels attack. then we have this article out of breitbart: uk equalities chief, who popularized the term islamophobia, admits: i never thought muslims would blend. i thought muslims would blend into britain. i should have known better. and of course, this is off the back of a channel four program which caused quite a stir here in the uk. people said it was islamophobic. i watched it. it wasn't. it was completely tame. most of the people interviewed in the program were muslims. most of the people speaking out about this were muslim reformists and again it revealed that muslims share a lot of these intolerant attitudes, which are completely intolerant towards homosexuals, towards transgenres, is completely incompatible with western ideals of liberalism and that's what leads to these ghettos. that what that's what leads to people protect, protecting abdeslam, the paris massacre, assailant, because again it's concentric rings, it's not just jihadists, it's islamists who protect this ideology. this integration hasn't worked. bringing in millions more of these people won't work. it will only lead to mass civil unrest. london preacher and friend hail fanatic who killed politician in pakistan as hero and martyr. yet another example: this guy who defended liberal values in pakistan was murdered and his death is being celebrated by quote: moderate muslims everywhere will be back in the final segment. this is the alex joneshow live, stay tuned. my name is don whiskin. in 1994, i lost my 62 year old father to complications of bypass surgery. in 1977, my 44 year old brother was found dead in his apartment. he suffered a heart attack. in january of 98, my mother had a stroke and passed away in her bed. 21 days later, my 53 year old brother passed away on his arrival to the hospital. he waited too long. in june that same year, i almost joined them at 42. what did i do? i took a seven herb formula i now call extendivite, made from garlic, cayenne, billbury, ginko biloba, hawthorne, milk, thistle and valerian. based on german studies of natural medicine, extendivite is designed to clear, block arteries, clean the toxins from your blood and improve your immune system. to get your extendivite, call 1-877-928-8822- that's 1-877-928-8822- or visit our website, heartdropcom. over the years, there have been a lot of powerful advancements in the field of science and nutraceuticals. young jevity integrates years of scientific research into creating fantastic products like beyond tangy, tangerine, plant-derived minerals and much more. young jevity also offers you an ingenious way to augment your income and, the best part, you'll be helping your friends and family along the way. visit info wars team dot com today. become a member. it discounts on the amazing products and free shipping when you sign up for auto ship and you're able to promote the products to friends and family and neighbors in your community and make money while helping people at the same time- another win-win. that's why i'm a member of the young jevity team at info wars team dot com and you can be too. it's simple: just go to info wars team dot com today, complete a short sign up and you're part of the team. that's info wars team dot com or info wars health dot com. so many people calling to my radio show and tell me how young jevity and the products at info wars team dot com have changed their lives. check it out for yourself today. hello, i'm michael reagan. my father, president ronald reagan, believes so strongly in gold. they change gold ownership forever by bringing back physical gold to the american public, allowing gold coins to be minute and sold to us citizens, just like you, starting in 1985. gold ownership can help protect your financial future, especially when our national debt is spiraling out of control. many smart americans have kept their retirements from being wiped out during america's financial crisis thanks to physical gold coins. i strongly urge you to call the us money reserve at 1-866-944-gold or go online to usmoneyreservecom. as for a special gold guide with new, never before released information about gold from the us money reserve, call 1-866-944-gold or go online to usmoneyreservecom. i'm michael reagan, thank you. we're back from final segment of the arch joan show. fourth hour and the religion of peace has struck again. associate press reports. jerusalem bus bombing wounds 21 israelis. the bus exploded in jerusalem on monday, wounding at least 21 people in what police said was a terror attack. quote: there's no doubt that this was a terror attack, jerusalem police commissioner yoram halavi said he said it was too early to know the identity of the attacker or if it was a suicide bombing? rt is reporting 9: 11 families hit obama for siding with saudi arabia. won't secret report declassified of course? obama is set to visit saudi arabia tomorrow to bow and kowtow to the royal dictators. president barack obama is facing increased pressure due to renewed effort to make a secret congressional report public that may describe links between saudi arabia and september 11 terror attacks. over the past week, families of 9: 11 victims have criticized obama because of reports stating that his administration is lobbying congress to block a bill that would allow terror victims to sue foreign governments connected to the attacks on american soil. now hillary clinton was also asked about that bill. this is out the daily caller chock schumer's legislation, of course, which would allow the families of 9: 11 victims to sue the saudi government. clinton surprised abc's this week host george stephanopoulos on sunday when she said she was not familiar with schumer's bill. she claims she never even heard of it. hours later, her campaign issued a statement saying that she did back it. have you read those papers? the reporter asked clinton a second time on monday. i'm not commenting. the democrat responded: isn't that interesting that hillary clinton refuses to comment on the 28 pages on saudi arabia's involvement with 9: 11 when the clinton foundation, before she was even secretary of state, received 10 million dollars from saudi arabia. gee, what a coincidence. and then, of course, it was under hillary's state department that saudi arabia got that sweetheart deal with the fighter jets. so again, that's the reason why she's not commenting on it, because she's in bed with the saudi dictators. 10 million dollar donation to the clinton foundation before she was even secretary of state. washington post reports: in wells leach curtains for three dancing trumps, 3- 11 year olds figured. they found the perfect plan to reprise their hip performance at last year's frisk elementary school talent show. when they don masks of their retiring principles, face and dance wildly. this year they'd be the dancing donald trumps, but god forbid should they even represent the likeness of donald trump. somebody complained, somebody was triggered, one person and the entire show was cancelled. so again, you can't even wear a face mask and dance around in a silly way by pretending to be donald trump without one person complaining. rt also reports focus on cat videos. german comic targeted in free speech row with erdogan suspends tv show. a german comedian charged with a defamation of the turkish president has suspended his tv show and let global audiences focus on important topics such as cat videos and celebrities sex lives, instead of discussing ankara's attack on freedom of speech. so he's basically done some kind of sardonic thing. he's cancelled the show again. angela merkel is poshing for his prosecution. this is the same chancellor that works with zuckerberg, that works with facebook, that works with x east german starzy officials to censor criticism of migrants by the german population, threatening them with fines and prison sentences. absolutely tyranny happening in germany. but that's going to wrap it up for the fourth hour. support info wars. get the products at info wars store dot com. alex will be back with the show tomorrow, but stick around for tonight's info wars and nightly news. breaking news at info wars dot com. thanks for joining us. visit gcn live dot com today.big brother mainstream media, government cover-ups. you want to stop tyranny? well, so does he live from the info wars dot-com studios. it's alex jones: 335 days left till the 2020 election. you can cut the suspense with a knife. many people are accelerating their awakening, while others are going deeper into the trance of death. it is Tuesday, December 11th. December 3rd 2019. it is 11 o'clock central standard time and we're going to be live here for the next four hours. David Knight, of course, was just hosting his great broadcast. we have Owen shroyer coming up with the war room from three to six pm, then a rebroadcast of my first hour, and then firepower with Will Johnson and Tom Pepper. again, this is teleprompter free, live global news and information on this. December 3rd 2019, Tuesday global broadcast. David Ike's going to be joining us co-hosting for two hours today. then Paul Joseph Watson is going to be hosting the fourth hour, so quite a transmission that you're not going to want to miss. obviously, separately from that, I'll do my best to cover a lot of the huge breaking news in the stacks here in the first hour, and there's so much unfolding that wild horses can't drag me away. I also co-hosted much of Owen's broadcast yesterday and still I didn't get to a lot of the news and information. I think really the big takeaway is this: there are forces on this planet that have been very mysterious and we know those forces are malevolent, and those forces have been working to poison and disease and dumb down humanity. and now mainline globalist publications and mainline universities on a planetary scale are all heralding the end of humanity, a post-human world nightmare scenario. now the only question is: who's running this? the bible would tell you it's interdimensional creatures that we can't see. and now science shows that those dimensions do exist, and mainline mathematical equations from the biggest supercomputer show that our universe is contained within another universe of dark matter that's many times more powerful, artificially holding the universe in place. that is the third dimension, and this is something you know. David Ike was talking about 25, 26, 27 years ago being attacked for I don't know if all of his theories are right, but I do know that he pioneered, exposing the whole pedophile agenda, which is now out in the open, and so you have to pay attention to what David Ike has to say. he certainly gets people thinking, and that's something the establishment doesn't want. so he'll be with us in the second and third hour today- and this is not a spectator sport fighting the globalist. I cannot impress upon you enough how important you are, the fact that you're the people that care enough to find the broadcast and they're aware of what's going on to a level no one else is on the planet. it's really true. that's why they want to extinguish info wars as a focal point for us to come together and share information. that's why it's critical that they not extinguish info wars and it's why it's critical that you spread the word, however you're listening, however you're watching. right now, do it daily and it is an exercise of survival and exercise of victory. and because of you, in the face of the globalist attack, we're still on air and in some way stronger. so I salute you and thank you. we'll start the official transmission in 60 seconds. on the other side, the anti defamation league is one of the most powerful globalist, leftist, anti-american organizations on the face of the planet, and they have declared that info wars is public enemy number one. they gave tim cook of apple an award specifically for deplat forming me to make sure that tens of millions of people could not hear the show, and now they've had sasha barack cohen come out and call for the arrest of big tech heads that do not turn full control over to the globalist adl, and they've called for a complete purge of anyone promoting americana. we are being demoralized, we are being conquered and the enemy wants to shut info wars down because they understand that we've got their number and know how to defeat their paradigm. you have helped keep us on the air, but now the attacks are more insane than ever. so please visit info war store dot com during black friday for the biggest sales of the year and fund the info war. please take action, defending the republic from enemies, foreign and domestic. it's alex jones. it's tuesday, december 3rd 2019. i'm your host, alex jones, still on air thanks to you, in defiance of the globalist and their will to extinguish free humanities voices. this broadcast, chief amongst the american resistance to the globalist blasting out worldwide, only magnified by you when you spread the word. so this is a true symbiotic relationship. 335 days left until this critical election. as the globalist mount their full assault, try to defeat president trump, who is a symbol of populism and nationalism and a symbol of americanism, not globalism. a symbol of unity, a symbol of the nation state. but the forces of tyranny are working around the clock right now, not just here but across the world, from brazil to europe, from africa to asia, to crush nationalists, to crush every human system and break the will of humanity, so that we can go to the long, dark night of the technocracy and be absorbed into this silicon satanic system. ladies and gentlemen, this is the final countdown. humanity's great decision. the world government, the casual society, it's all going live right now, run by communist china and the united nations. that is officially been released by reuters, ap and a un press release. communist china is quarterbacking as the chief foreman on the engineering project for the world government 5g microchipped population interface. it's right here, chinese tech groups writing un facial recognition standards, reuters and it goes on from there. ladies and gentlemen, you will face scan or palm scan to buy and sell and if you don't submit, you will be turned off. you will starve to death in the streets. huge populations will run to the hills in the rural areas and will try to go back to agrarian societies. they will be assaulted by robot drones, robot tanks. you think well, humans won't go, wipe out humans that run from the beast. but the robots are already here and they're coming and china is writing the global standards. for that, america was supposed to fall and not even be in the picture, and china is meant to empower the entire system and literally bake us, with six, seven, eight, nine and ten g already being rolled out. this isn't science fiction. this is the waning twilight hours of the year 2019. the future is here. it's not equally distributed and it's being run by psychotic, anti-human control freaks who believe they're going to merge with machines and become gods, but only after they have paid choron to cross into their hell. that they believe is heaven, and the payment is the extermination of the disease, the virus known as homo sapien sapien. that is openly, ladies and gentlemen, going on. you know the crew does a great job in real time, pulling up articles and videos of just whatever subject i talk about here on air and- and they don't even know what i'm going to be bringing up- most of the time i would encourage listeners and viewers- a lot of you do- to actually look into what i say and what i claim, because 99 of the time, you can easily just go find it, but it's from the globalist perspective, telling you how great it is that, oh, next year, tesla is going to roll out not just brain chips but dozens of wires put into your brain. but it's essential that it not be done at a hospital because that sounds too medical and scary brain surgery. so it's done at little kiosk at the mall where you just step in like you look at a tesla car and sign up and you- and they don't worry- a robot cuts a hole in the back of your head and sticks some wires in there and you sign the waiver forms and then you walk out and all your friends go: oh, you're so cool, you're a cyborg now. but again they got to do it like it's buying a pair of shoes or, you know, getting a pedicure. it's all just no big deal. get your bikini wax, get some wires shoved in your brain, while the homeless in austin get their microchips. and, yeah, it's announced, nobody cares, okay, just the homeless in a warehouse getting their microchips. of course, we had the documents over a month ago. it's confirmed. but oh, it goes so viral when it's buried in just a video on the internet of a guy getting his hair trimmed. who's homeless? and he goes: oh yeah, they're moving into warehouse getting the microchip, everything's gonna be free. well, that's actually what the plan says. so you can see where this is going. you do what you're told. you get your microchip and then you behave the way you're told and then you get all these free little credits put onto your chip because the robot factories are making all the goods. now humans don't have to work anymore, but you're being made obsolete so that you don't know how things work or operate. so you're lazy, so you're stupid, so you're drugged by weaponized level marijuana and fentanyl and fluoride in the water, and it's all an admitted plan to shutter and control your consciousness. and that really is. my main message to everybody is that this is not a drill, this is not a game, this is not a joke. this is real, and info wars view of the world is the most accurate forecast of what was going to come. and now it's here and you don't have to listen to me telling you what's going to come next. the globalists have told you what's going to come next, but don't worry, you're going to be as high as a kite when you die 30, 40 years before you're supposed to, and you'll never know what hit you as the rise of the new species of machines takes over and we are phased out. that's all been announced, that's taught at all the universities and and people under Stockholm syndrome go. well, i better join that so i can be part of the last group that has to go and give up their humanity because they're all agreeing that they have to die before they're uploaded to the mothership. this is beyond a hail bop cult, where these men cut their testicles and penises off and were transgendered and all believe that they were going to beam their spirits up to the hail bop comment. and those were some top programmers in silicon valley. where do you think this whacked out stuff comes from? they just thought they were moving to the end right away. forget uploading to the computers. when they were taking their dmt- whatever it was they were talking to on the dmt told them to drink vodka and take barbiturates and wear their Nike tennis shoes. see how that works. we're going to go to break. i'm going to come back and get into all the current temporal news. head of David Ike hasn't been on two years. joining us for two hours will be co-hosting. this is going to be powerful. he's always very thought-provoking. but however you're watching, however you're listening, remember it's beyond paramount, it's beyond central, it's beyond critical. it's absolutely imperative that if you're listening on local amenathem stations that you tell people about the station with urgency. they want to have us in this trance. no, you go into the grocery store or the gas station or you walk into work. you say, hey, i'm listening to Alex Jones right now or i'm gonna listen to him tonight on the local station. he's covering stuff they don't want you to hear. that's why he's so censored. yeah, i've heard of that guy. well, listen, find out what he's really saying. it affects you and your family. we don't have to let this takeover happen. well, who's taking over? listen, you need to find out who's taking over. one can't be told about the matrix. one has to see it. info wars sees into the matrix. we can read the code. so can you? but at this point i can literally see the code. just like hollywood says, they're throwing in your face, ladies and gentlemen, and they believe a lot of you're going to see the code and get scared and join it. you will not upload the machine. you will download to hell. do not join with satan. it's a lie. it's all a fraud. attention, gcn self-reliance listeners. if you've ever wanted an emergency solar survival backup system- but we're waiting for prices too crazy to pass up- this will be the most important message you'll ever hear. bill hide here i want to tell you about a huge sale, with historically low prices, on our ppx microgrid system that's going to let you produce an endless supply of electricity off the grid. the clearance price is a result of the historic flooding we're having here right on the east bank of the mississippi. because of the flooding, we've had to move a lot of our inventory to a temporary location and rather than move it back to the warehouse, we thought we'd offer the system at a price that might seem unbelievable if you didn't know the flood waters backstory. so here's what you should do right now: check out the ppx microgrid system at my own power grid dot com. that's my own power grid dot com. over a thousand dollars in great off the grid gear and a ton of bonuses too. in the best part, you're not going to pay 750 or 500 dollars, 300 or even 200. go to my own power grid dot com to learn more. that's my own power grid dot com. heart disease is on the rise: clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected by you, but the symptoms are there: loss of energy, blood sugar spikes and drops, poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong here. how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives across america. my blood pressure has normalized. my diabetes has totally improved. everyone is telling me now how much healthier i look and i'm telling everyone how much healthier i feel. i recommend heart body extract to everyone. anybody over 40 in the north american continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy. order your two months supply today by calling 866 295 5305- that's 866 295 5305- or order online hbextractcom heart and body extract- 866 295 5305 or hbextractcom. the last few days i've been online looking for the speech. i actually read it in a book about winston churchill many years ago and i've found a few places where it's mentioned. but if you can find it, please send it to showtipsdenfullwordscom. and he talked about, in the darkest hours at the beginning of world war two, the fact that there have been times in history where people had a chance to stand up and fight early on and we're assured of victory. then there was a second point in history where folks have to fight even though the chances of winning are pretty steep. there's a third time when you know you're gonna lose but you have to fight, because being enslaved and being slowly killed is much, much worse. that's a paraphrase. but, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the position now of being able to win this easily if we find our spirit, find our focus and don't give up and take action. but if we don't stand up and get involved, we're going to skip number two and go right to number three. that's a fact. they fear info wars because we are alive. it's time for the world to awaken and take back our future. andy in florida. thank you, andy, go ahead. hey, alex, i love you man, we love you. before i go ahead and talk about the topic on hand, i gotta talk about one of your product. a little bit about me. i'm 245 pounds, i work about 10 to 13 hours a day at ups and make a long story short. i used to have a problem with aterol. i do have adhd, but you know i was taking aterol for its energy boosting properties. you know i kind of got a little out of hand and you know i listen you religiously in my truck every day. so i tried your turbo force and really it's a cliche. this product changed my life, but turbo force really changed my life and it was a day. i no longer take aterol and i get by literally the 13 hours a day. i work on a half of a packet of your turbo force and if you take a half a packet, that's literally a dollar a day and you save so much money versus you know a monster which is what 499, and you know. i just had to call and tell you guys, uh, how great turbo force is, and if anybody's on the fence they really have to try it. we're really proud of turbo force. so thank you, sir. commit to buy a lot of your products at m4storecom, then help us spread the word. let's just get busy. m4storecom, you're listening to the alex jones show. you have the power, humanity has the power. we have the power. do you want to fight? you better believe. you got one rallying patriots worldwide in defense of human liberty. it's alex jones. i don't say it with pleasure when i point out that info wars has laid out how the planet really works, who's in charge and what their in game is, long before they came out and admitted the in game, and now they're just flooding us with electromagnetic radiation, gmo tons and tons of fentanyl- enough to kill the whole country if we took a dose- is flooding in every week. it's just incredible, and christian pro-human nations are under attack. everybody else is basically given up and are complete slaves. but there's hope in defeating this if we can admit what's happening and rediscover the basic liberties that made us great. now i want to tell you the news that's coming up. i'm going to cover before david eich joins us, but i also wanted to just encourage listeners and viewers, with christmas being here, to not spend your money with target- and i occasionally still go to target if it's 10 o'clock at night and you know the kids need socks or something i forgot to get if i'm out of town. it's not the target's a bad store itself. it's that it's a globalist, anti-human, transhumanist brainwash. the kids get rid of the boys and girls toy sections because it's bad for boys and girls to be- you know, to be- their own independent part of the species. they're doing terrible stuff. why would you go buy your christmas presents with them and then look at jeff bezos and his globalism and his slave factories and and with the robot takeover- and i'm not judging you if you bought some stuff on amazon. everybody does. the point is, buy stuff from local merchants, buy things from info wars, buy things that you need, that are high quality, with organizations that share your values. why go out and fight all the traffic, why go out and go through the craziness of the stores when you can go to m4storecom and get great apparel, great air filtration, water filtration, uh, preparedness items and, ladies and gentlemen, look right here, eight-pack power stack. i believed would be our best-selling item because, if you look at the industry, the hottest thing the last five years or so- because it works- is an a? m pack and a p? m pack that you take and it's been somewhat popular. i wouldn't call it a bomb, but i haven't really promoted it and so in the six months we've had this in, it's not even our top ten sellers- i think it should be. people like: what kind of pitch is that? that you can't sell something? well, the truth's always my pitch. i've been taking this religiously for about four months now and that way you don't forget. it's got 13 pills. i'm not going to go into everything that's in it, but it's got stuff for the morning and then it's got stuff for the night, and it's for people that are going to forget to take their supplements. if you've got a husband or a wife, or a brother or a sister or a grandmother or a grandfather or a boss or employee, somebody that you care about, somebody you know not taking care of themselves, eating too much fast food, not exercising, the way to start is getting people to think about their health and getting people to take something like eight pack power stack. now listen, these are the best selling products in the industry. i went out to the top manufacturers, looked at it and the other top competitor puts about 15 dollars a product in. everybody else puts about five dollars a product in and then the packaging- because there's so many packages in here- ends up costing about five dollars as well. well, the packaging costs is five dollars, but there's, you know, there's 30 something packets in here, but the product costs way more than that. so we're selling this at cost, at 29.95, you understand, at cost at 29.95, and that way we can fund ourselves in the next year. but this is the perfect thing to put under the tree, perfect thing to give in in the stocking. and then, just hey, for particular wives out there, your husband's not taking care of himself. he's not going to listen. i just do the same way about supplements, even though i knew they work. so i've religiously started taking them and i still forget. and then, wow, what happened? i'm not feeling as good, i've gained some weight again. i'm not taking these things work. it's the fastest growing industry because it works. folks, 13 pills- i don't have time to get into what is in both the packs- 13 pills a day, game changing. there's more nutrients in this. and you're getting all those meals for the average person. then you're not going to want to eat as much. then you're going to lose weight. in my experience i've already lost 30 pounds. ladies and gentlemen, because i'm religiously taking the eight pack power stack. i'm taking the x2, the x3, i'm taking the bodies when i have aches and pains. i'm taking the brain force plus to work more hours. turbo force is too strong, i just can't take it. i mean, that's my sales pitch. the truth works too well, i don't need it. um, infowarstorecom. now we have another deal at cost. that's the trifecta change your life special: 59.95. you get the big two ounce bottle of x3, the tri iodine, a bottle of brain force plus and the eight pack power stack for 59.95 and because of the free shipping it's 59.95. it wasn't for the free shipping, it'd be 54 dollars or so. this is literally at cost. you'll never see deals like this next year. so i finally sat down, did the math to fund ourselves and everything that we had extra of i can sell at cost. people get it. it's moving out. next year i'll have to go up to prices that then fund us with a smaller inventory and a smaller list of products, and then we'll run through 2020 and if god keeps us on air and you support us, we'll be there. if not, we'll be out of gas at the end of the election and next year and we'll start shutting this, this form of info wars, down, uh, and so that's just where things are. that's okay. i believe you're gonna provide, uh, i simply god's gonna touch your heart to do that. i believe that you're gonna spread the word about the broadcast. but you've seen what we've been through, how we've been attacked because we're telling the truth. it's a badge of honor. i wasn't being attacked. i think i wasn't doing my job. i don't enjoy being attacked. i'm not a masochist, but at the end of the day, i kind of do you know? i mean i don't like it but i do because it means i'm over the target, taking that pain because i'm going to defeat these people, because i know how evil they are. this will change your life. the x3 alone will change your life. brain force- you'll feel in 30 minutes ago: man, this is clean, focused energy. where has this been all my life? you've seen the reviews. you've a lot of you taking it. i mean it's just the best formula you're going to find. for the price: yeah, you could do a better formula for $100 a bottle, sure, uh, leading competitors of similar formulas that are 60 bucks a bottle. they discount at 40. okay, we have it, you know, at 30 something. we usually discount at the 19 dollars and we make like seven, eight bucks on it. the point is is that you need to get the eight pack power stack for yourself and to give it as a family. everybody should do their Christmas shopping with us, fund the info war and get a great deal. so eight pack power stack by itself or you can get survival shield x3, brain force plus in the eight pack power stack, all three together in the trifecta: change your life package. change your life. give the gift to others. bare minimum. you take this, you're going to see results, because i know everybody does. i know i have again instant results with brain force. takes a couple weeks, uh, with this revival shield to kick in and the eight pack power stack. you'll feel at that night just just alone, on what is in the natural sleeping aid. it's similar to our best selling product knockout. so a bunch of big sales. right now, cyber week, it's critical for folks to fund us critical. support your local radio stations instead of tithing that local church that doesn't stand up for pro life. support the local radio station that has pro life host on. donate to them every week, every month, and spread the word. paint the name of the station on your barn. you know if we're on that station. this is a war and your word of mouth is king. i'm on my knees for the sake of you and my children and all of us, asking for your word of mouth and asking you to take action. i don't want these pedophile, satanist vampires to keep winning. we're very close to beating them. we're at the tipping point, but we've only summoned their counter offensive, their counter revolution, uh operation. they see us as a counter revolution, but the truth is we simply are the inheritors of this planet if we take the birthright, but there's evil that wants to steal it. so i need your word of mouth and i need your prayers and your financial support, and our local stations do as well. so please continue to do what you do and take action. well, they're right back. i'm going to go sit on tech desk and i'm going to blitz through a ton of news ahead of david ike joining us today on this tuesday, december 3rd 2019 global broadcast. finally, there's a way for you to get into the blockchain, the hottest financial sector, without all the speculation. no, enjoy a 27 annualized payment each month, without the ups and downs of bitcoin seen on programs broadcast on fox business news. blockchain data centers offer an equipment leasing program in the explosive digital asset marketplace. inspired by entrepreneurs who sold picks and shovels during the gold rush, the money is in the mining equipment used to manufacture dozens of critical digital assets. non-security, ipo or note blockchain data centers have proven turnkey equipment sale leaseback program with a 27 annualized lease payment deposited into your bank account each month. don't miss this one. stake your claim today. call 800-600-3388. that's 800-600-3388. these valuable lease contracts won't last long. call now 800-600-3388. 800-600-3388. equipment offer poses a financial risk. owners consult with financial professionals before purchasing, not an offer to buy or sell the security which requires an offering document. cyber week is here with the biggest sales of 2019: amazing products that will change your life, guaranteed. not only will the products make you healthier, happier, more focused, more energized, they will fund the info wars operation into the critical year of 2020. ladies and gentlemen, a lot of people notice i've lost weight, i have more focus, there's more of a sparkle in my eye and it's because i've been taking the eight pack power stack in the morning and at night. i've been taking x2 and x3. i've been taking brain force plus. quite frankly, i can't take turbo force, it's just too powerful. i have been taking the fish oil and the krill oil when i go to sleep at night and it's totally energized my life. i know our products work, but i'm like everybody else. i use them, then i forget about them. ladies and gentlemen, these products are amazing. there's huge sales, triple patriot points, free shipping, 57 off in four. store dot com cyber week is here. if you understand why the globalist, why the servants of satan, hate info wars, it's because we're awake, we're alive, we're passionate and we're not giving up. that's why it's critical for those of us that are aware of the new world order's plans to not get down when they attack us and they persecute us and they lie about us. that's what we should expect, because we are hurting these scumbags. the globalists have literally sold their soul to the dark side and they do what they do because they're slaves, because they are eternally driven to try to suppress and dominate and destroy the innocent. it is up to us who are awake- not the sheep and not the wolves, but the sheep dogs- to stand firm and resist these wicked tyrants. they fear the fact that we are awake, they fear the fact that we are alive, they fear the fact that we love god, and that's all we ever have to know is that god is in charge. you want to break some globalist ribs. you want to crush some skulls. politically, you want to drive ice picks through their eyeballs. spiritually, there's nowhere you can spend money. there's nowhere you can place your bet in a fight where it's gonna have more power per dollar. you're bang for your buck. fear gets you great products at great prices that literally fund the system where the spirit of resistance lives, to drive it home to the enemy. and so it's very simple: if you don't want to be slaves and you want to see the fight taken to the enemy, which god wants to see, you see, we have to make the effort. 110 god will finish the move. and i know i need to stay in the fight, in the attack, attack, attack. i want to attack. i want to go after the globalists and just believe me, ladies and gentlemen, that if you want somebody to commit to you and your family to fight for all of our futures together, you've got to guarantee you keep me in the game. i'm gonna bust my ass with everything i got for us, for myself and my family and your family, because we're in this together. in four store dot com you're listening to the alex jones show. if you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance live from the info wars dot com studios. it's alex jones. we are back live. we are broadcasting worldwide. i am your host, alex jones. thank you so much again for joining us. okay, let me get into the big news here. we'll be covering all of this with david ike in the second and third hour. paul watson will be hosting the fourth hour ahead of oh and shroyer in the war room three to six pm. band dot video. hillary clinton has said that she's considering entering the race she's always intended to run. she's going to announce, even though she's infirm and looks like a rotting old shoe on the side of the highway, her will to power is very real. we're going to be getting into that. also, it's being reported by the washington post. who knows if it's true that the upcoming ig report is going to absolve the deep state and that follows the pattern. we're going to be getting into that report and so much more. and i don't really like to make fun of leftist because there's such twisted, fallen wrecks of humans. but if it's people like aid screelix or carl the cock or triglypuff, i mean, there's so many of them. i don't know what you call this lady other than evil mickey mouse. put the videos up on info wars dot com. old lady with mickey mouse voice screams that trump supporters. we're going to get to that in a moment because she's slapping them, she's hitting them, she's cussing at them so we had to bleep it and she's totally entitled. and then brags how her brother is hillary's lawyer. that protected her in arkansas. what did hillary do in arkansas? mean a drug dealing, children murdered, protecting pedophiles- i mean this is all on record. they made movies- you know fictional movies- about corrupt lawyers. give me a break. imagine a movie about hillary. you talk about a villain you talk about connected to wickedness from the very get go. we're going to get to all of that because the cover matches the contents of the book with these people. we'll get to that in a moment. uh, first off, one thing: i didn't add last segment, something very exciting that we've been working on. third dimensionally, the left doesn't want you to exercise your speech, you know that. but when you do it, it gives other people faith and other people get really excited. i can't tell you how many times i walk in the door and my children or my wife or my parents or my friends say i was hiking through the woods and up on a rock face, was you know info wars carved? or i was you know a Yanis d'austin? somebody spray painted it big up on the side of an overpasser. i saw bumper stickers all over cars and it just excites people and it spreads the word. and info wars has been so demonized that it really is now a symbol of resistance against everything the globalists stand for. and so i went to my great gravix design folks and i said i want 15 new stickers, dr mckamshaw, please. i said i want 15 new stickers and we're going to put five stickers in the small orders and 10 stickers in the big orders. some stickers are full-size, some are small. my favorites are these little ones and young people love these because they go on backpacks, they go on lockers, they go on bathroom walls. each little sheet has one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine stickers. honestly, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, nine stickers. three percent. 1776. info wars dot com. info wars dot com is worn for your mind. info wars dot com- 1776. i mean, this is a great way to get the word out: college. you name it or covertly get the word out. you on this police state, defend your country. info wars dot com. who is alex jones bandot video? info wars dot com. forbidden information. i am 1776. alex jones lives. info wars dot com. tearing response team. info wars dot com. don't tread on me. info wars dot com. if you can read this, save america. info wars dot com. upside down flag: a news wars dot com sticker. info wars- there is a war on for your mind with Statue of Liberty. i am 1776 honk. if epstein didn't kill himself, epstein didn't kill himself. info wars dot com in the stranger things font, and that's just some of the new stickers and some of the classics. so every order get little order gets five, because i don't want to make the shipping go up on you. every big order gets 10 and we're selling out of all these at cost where for 995 you get 40 stickers, that shipping included, because really it costs like five bucks for the 40 stickers. but then there's the shipping and handling. so 995 at cost sticker bomb. great way to spread the word this christmas in the face of these tyrants, wherever you live legally and awfully. and believe me, you want to trigger libtards, they're going to tear them down. but i mean, this little sticker thing cost us 10 cents. so that's basically let a little more than a cent a sticker for these babies, and then the bigger stickers cost us 10 cents a piece as well, or whatever. but the point is, and you got the shipping and all the handling. all the rest of it comes up to 995 is about what it cost us and this way you get it out very exciting. go to info wars store dot com and find that i'm going to stop plugging. it's just that information warfare is the way to go. it's very, very exciting and it's how we're going to change this world and it's how we're going to push back and fight back. and you know, when you have a sticker on your car, if it's heptstein didn't kill himself, the left now has embraced that and it's like, yeah, trumps involved. no, it's the clinton's, it's the deep state, it's not trump. i've looked into it and they can't stand that. but if you've got a information from that information banned on video in your car, you're not going to get key to attacked. but i would not stick an info wars in your car unless you live in a conservative rural area. then you might meet your husband, your wife, you know your new best friend. but do not do it in a blue area unless you are willing to be hit in the head with a bike lock. i mean, these people will go psychotic on you. if you, you you want to know what it's like to be alex shones, walk around with an info wars shirt on in a blue city and you'll meet more people that like you than not. but it doesn't matter. that 15th person you walk by i'll take a swing at you because you are hitler to them and they want to attack somebody. now, as soon as you get back on her face, they run, but they'll bump you, they'll hit you, they'll- you know, not too hard. it's like, it's like a token thing to like with them. it's all a simulation. then you have to chase them down the street, but that's how this works. ladies and gentlemen, this is a real war and i want you to experience it and engage these people because, let me tell you, they used to confront me all over. i get right back in their face and now i go in restaurants, i go in places. they sit there with their upper lips shaking and they keep their libtard, fascist mouth shut because i'm going to get right back in their stinking, dirty, child molestin face and they know it and they can't stand it. they want to bully people, just like the kids. they kidnap and they rape and even if they're not raping kids, they have that spirit now and now their main operating system. we have the holy ghost, they have the child molester spirit. seriously, the vampire hurt the children's spirit and they are now openly externalizing the method and saying, yeah, we want to kill babies, we love to kill them after they're born, hurt those little suckers. i love chopping them up. the mainline feminist. all are saying how fun it is to kill babies and licking their lips and saying hail satan. on tv. they're not just doing that to demoralize you. they're doing it because it's their power source and they're declaring the name of their god and their love of their god out of desperation because they can feel christ energy coming back of the world. this is real, this is happening. they're very, very scared right now, and so exercise your free speech like never before. call into a libtard show again, go to congress, confront them. but whatever you do, tell people about the local stations, because folks are ready to wake up right now. now we come back, i'm gonna, i'm gonna stop it and i'm gonna get to all this news i just said i've mentioned to the mickey mouse lady, and now it ties into biden and his weird roach leg thing. look at it, black kids calling them roaches. i mean, these are psychotic demons and the veneers coming off where they're uncloaking. it's not just senility, it's not just that, it's not just early dementia. even the young leftists are having seizures on stage because they are falling and as the evil tries to come into them to attack us. it's bringing them down, not us. my phone has been ringing off the hook. dozens and dozens of people have called me. i've gotten all these text messages, the office phones ringing off the hook, emails are flooding in and they're saying: can you believe it? 300 trump ads that were gonna run tens of millions of times were pulled by google and then it turns out it was done over the summer. folks, i live this every day. i read the news like nobody else, probably, and they have been hitting hundreds of congressional candidates and members of congress. they've been going after governor state reps. it's been a reign of terror. last week they wouldn't let malania trump images be sent out, saying it was hate speech. ladies and gentlemen, this is beyond censorship. it's total information control. it has to all go through a filter and that's what ai allows is what i call information singularity: not empowering information, but holding it all in like the one ring of mordor. trump must act now or they will steal this election. cyber week is here with the biggest sales of 2019. no sales in our history can even approach this triple patriot points: store-wide free shipping, 50 to 70 percent off, and when you add auto ship to it on the order, a lot of these products become a lost leaders, meaning i'm losing money on them but bringing in capital so i can fund ourselves into next year. it is critical for folks to take advantage of these sales. you've ever been on the fence trying some of the products, like the protein bars or turbo force of the fish oil. now is the time. we've got huge specials on dna force plus, our flagship product, with a free bottle of brain force plus with it. it's all available at infowarstorecom during cyber week. now a lot of these sales will continue through Christmas, but some of them have to end because the products are selling out. infowarstorecom funds the info war. thank you, andy in florida. thank you, andy, go ahead. hey, alex, i love you man, we love you. before i go ahead and talk about the topic on hand, i got to talk about one of your product. a little bit about me. i'm 245 pounds, i work about 10 to 13 hours a day at ups and make a long story short. i used to have a problem with adderall. i do have adhd, but you know i was taking adderall for its energy boosting properties. you know i kind of got a little out of hand and you know i listen to you religiously in my truck every day. so i tried your turbo force and really it's a cliche- this product changed my life, but turbo force really changed my life. it was a day. i no longer take adderall and i get by literally the 13 hours a day. i work on a half of a packet of your turbo force and if you take a half a packet, that's literally a dollar a day and you save so much money versus, you know, a monster, which is what 499, and you know i just had to call and tell you guys, uh, how great turbo force is, and if anybody's on the fence, they really have to try it. we're really proud of turbo force. so thank you, sir. commit to buy a lot of your products at infowarstorecom, then help us spread the word. let's just get busy, infowarstorecom. twilight is here, the sun is setting on 2019 and we hurdle into the year 2020, only 330 days out from this incredibly historic election, and it's more important than ever to pray for president trump and to pray for his provision and his protection- he's completely surrounded- and to pray for him to have discernment and to be bold and to take action and not listen to the advisors that tell him to hold back and that if he goes after the deep state that they'll remove him from office. they're trying to remove him regardless because they know that god put him in office and that he's going to continue his work and he's going to continue exposing him and bringing them down, but that if he doesn't execute in that office that god's given him, that the globalist could win. ladies and gentlemen, now is the time more than ever, to pray for president trump and please pray for him, for wars, and please pray for all the children being targeted by the globalist. thank you, and god bless you all. you're listening to the alex jones show. the alex jones show because there is a war on for your mind. even your emotions haven't let go in so much space, losing your mind and when you're out there, thank god, i'm crazy and i would have gone insane a long time ago. i just knew too much and the whole system is about ridiculing you. if you know how things actually work, if you study the ruling class and the scientific dictators and the world they're building, because it's a world full of ugliness, it's a post-human world. these globalists think they're in charge, but think twice. the fact that they think they're in control is a real joke. it's like the song says: come on now. who do you? who do you? who do you? who do you think you are? bless your soul, you really think you're in control? you really think you're in control? you really think bill gates is in control? well, i think you're crazy. you think hillary clinton's in control? i think you're crazy. you think lord roth child's in control? no, there's a dark force in control of them and that force is not in control of the force and the force is to simply god's will. it's not something from the movie star wars, and that force has been mathematically proven: the will of god holding the universe in his hand. all right, let's lay it out. the rotting edifice that is hillary. that is joe biden with his fever dreams of dementia. it's so sad when old people, even if they're good people, start to have a real brain rot and they start saying really nasty, gross, weird things that don't make sense. one day they're fine. the next day they're drawing on the walls with feces. come back the next day, they're okay. next week they're cutting their fingers off. you know this. the type of stuff goes on. next day they're walking down the street naked. joe biden is degenerating in front of our very eyes like a vampire in a movie that gets caught out in the sun that starts turning into dust in front of you, or the skexie death scene. throne room scene- death of the emperor skexie- maybe we can roll that in the background. i mean he's crumbling in slow motion in front of us and the system still keeps shoving him in front of us because the globalists are hierarchical and he has served the system and and it's all run by 80 and 90 year old crazy devil worshipers and and so they like seeing joe up there and they don't mind him. he's flirting his words and stuff because they are. they don't mind all that dandruff on his shoulders, they don't mind him calling little black kids roaches. that's what they call them. in mexico, the ruling class called the worker class roaches. so this is all emblematic of who they are. here's hillary saying: oh, i'd have to make up my mind really quickly. and boy, she's right at the edge of that cliff. she knows she shouldn't run, she knows it's not going to go well, but she wants that power, my power. i am the emperor of mine here. she is not yet, and then the thawning audience. look at webster hubbell's daughter mill is flying. could you could step back into the ring? yeah, i, i, um, i hear that i, i especially- have been deluged and you know, the last few weeks, um, uh, with uh thinking about uh doing that, but right now i'm not at all. uh, you know, planning that, um, i'd have to make up my mind really quickly, uh, because it's moving very fast. but i do want to continue to influence the debate. you know i'm not, i'm not leaving, you know, the political arena completely. i'm working really hard to uh, you know, make it clear that we have to hold our current leadership accountable. so i'm on twitter. i'm not, as i think, clever, uh, as chelsea isn't, you know, dealing with a lot of the undercurrent chelsea, god help us. i'm out there all the time, uh, sort of pointing out some of the foolishness and craziness that we are currently experiencing. so you know i'm okay. so that's good. now let's move on. this has been out for a week, as you know, or four or five days, but darin mcreen puts some images to it, but radio listeners, you'll be spared. looking at biden. here's biden, clearly in dementia, talking about hairs and roaches and black kids and i love kids. he realizes what he just i mean. i mean i don't look at black kids and see roaches. okay, but that's how these folks operate. they see kids, period. they see roaches. they want to pull the legs off of. uh, let's uh go to biden. you're on television, so be good. i said i'm telling you not getting a billion dollars if the prosecutor's not fired, you're not getting the money. oh, son of a bitch got fired. no, not smile. no, eight to your thirty. you know i sit on the stand and to get hot, i got a lot of. i got hairy legs that turn, that, that, that, that that turned blonde in the sun and the kids used to come up and reach in the pool and rub my leg down so it was straight, and then watch the hair come, come back up again. they look at. so i learned about roaches. i learned about kids jumping on my lap, and i love kids jumping on my lap. oh, son of a bitch. it's called being cut off from god. now let's go to this lady. video's up on news wars dot com. they're at a trump rally. this woman comes over, starts assaulting him. it looks like she's about 89 and she sounds just like mickey mouse. this has not been altered. she starts hitting people, cussing him. the police officer says: hey, they're just having fun, leave him alone. so she cusses him out and stomps off: but the entitlement of the left. this is how they act. if you go to a leftist rally, they're almost all like this lady. you're like this lady's a freak show. they can be black, they can be white, they can be old, they can be young, they can be hispanic, they can be asian. they all act and look like her, but they're mainly white and they're the ruling class. they supposedly control things and they're just pissed that their goddess, their god hillary, didn't get in. so old liberal lady with mickey mouse voice screams at trump supporters. this is all emblematic of the rotting, diseased brains here it is. so We love President Trump. I just had a thought. okay, President Trump, thank you for meeting me. I'm going to raise it to keep America free. Please, man, take a seat. Thank you, It's Pete. It's Pete, It's Trump 2020.. He loves you. He's fighting America. God bless President Trump and God bless America, Trump 2020.. Trump 2020.. Four more years, Four more years, Four more years. So that's what we're facing Now. they've been trying to hide their supporters. Last election, I mean, we had videos every week with 5, 10 million views. We would just go out and show them and it was just really hilarious but also sad. Well, now they delete and take down videos everywhere that show the freak show that these people have turned into. or maybe they were always like this, But I didn't think we'd find anybody- the top age-scree-licks-carl-the-cut-triggly-puff. But, ladies and gentlemen, I mean I guess this is the evil Mickey Mouse. I mean, I knew that Disney was fully behind the Democrats and Hillary, but my God, this is just over the top. Maybe this woman has been like 120 years old as the original voice of Mickey Mouse. I mean, that could be the case, folks. Stranger things have happened. Maybe it's an MPC in the program matrix, and this is all a deep fake and none of this is real, because, let me tell you, that is frighteningly hilarious. I don't know whether I'm just going to go home, you know, hide in a hole somewhere or die laughing. Second hour: David Ike coming up. It's shocking but true. 2019 is almost a memory in the rear view mirror and Cyber Week is here. The best deals of the year: Store-wide free shipping, Triple Patriot points for the first time ever, 50 to 70% off. Many of these products are lost. leaders, We are only 330 days out from the 2020 election. It is an incredible time to be alive. It's an incredible time to still be on the air, where almost everybody else has been shut down and censored. Yes, we were the first to be censored because we're such a threat to the globalists, but now, thanks to the infrastructure and your support, we're still on air. But bigger attacks are already happening. More are coming. So please spread the word about the broadcast and fund our operation while getting great products at the same time. That's true 360 win. Cyber Week is here. Get those Christmas presents for you and your family today at M4storecom. You want to break some globalist ribs. You want to crush some skulls. politically, You want to drive ice picks through their eyeballs. Spiritually, There's nowhere you can spend money. There's nowhere you can place your bet in a fight where it's going to have more power per dollar. Your bang for your buck here gets you great products at great prices that literally fund the system where the spirit of resistance lives, to drive it home to the enemy. And so it's very simple If you don't want to be slaves and you want to see the fight taken to the enemy, which God wants to see. you see, we have to make the effort: 110%, God will finish the move And I know I need to stay in the fight, in the attack, attack, attack. I want to attack. I want to go after the globalist. And just believe me, ladies and gentlemen, that if you want somebody to commit to you and your family to fight for all of our futures together, you've got to guarantee you keep me in the game. I'm going to bust my ass with everything I got for us, for myself and my family, for your family, Because we're in this together. infowarstorecom, You're listening to the Alex Jones show. You really shouldn't be served such a thing in the war Land. parenthood does more than just kill babies and sell their body parts. For many of us, this idea of transgenderism seems brand-new. It is male, But the movement we are seeing today was born a hundred years ago. The founding fathers of this transgender movement were of the same culture as the eugenics crowd. The media push for transgenderism happened 60 years before Bruce Caitlyn Jenner. In 1952, George Jorgensen became the first American to undergo a sex change operation. After learning about the procedure in the US Army, he went to Denmark where he was given special permissions from the Danish Minister of Justice to undergo several sexual reassignment operations. George Jorgensen became Christine Jorgensen and was instantly taken in by Hollywood and made an advocate for the transgender community. Her influence through pop culture made transgenderism and sex change operations more normal and acceptable. We then see it in the universities. Gender identity research began in 1962 at UCLA and the Gender Identity Clinic at Johns Hopkins was performing sex reassignment surgeries by the late 1960s. In 1969, the Marshall Tanner study created the term precocious puberty, which is defined as a disorder and diagnosed when a child shows signs of puberty too soon. According to the study, too soon is age eight for girls and age nine for boys. Precocious puberty doesn't physically harm the child, and yet it was considered a disorder. Just two years later came the discovery of gonadotropin-releasing hormone- GNRH- what we know today as puberty blockers- And it was immediately prescribed to those diagnosed with precocious puberty to halt the natural hormonal process in their bodies. So why? Because two men wrote a paper that suggested it was emotionally bad for children to undergo puberty before everyone else. In 1980, the American Psychiatric Association's APA added gender identity disorder into the DSM-3, which opened the coffers of taxpayer health care funds to pay for sexual reassignment costs, Without FDA approval or any studies on the drug's long-term effects. they are injecting Lupron and other brands of puberty blockers into children, and doctors are being paid to prescribe them. In 2001,, the makers of Lupron paid an $875 million settlement to the Department of Justice for giving illegal kickbacks to doctors in exchange for prescribing Lupron to their patients. This company is now the sixth largest independent biotech company in the world, with a revenue of over $32 billion in 2018.. The company is also connected with the Clinton Global Initiative and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. In 2007,, Boston Children's Hospital began transitioning children as young as three years old. From 2000 to 2014,, gender-affirming surgeries have increased fourfold and up another 20% the next two years. Private funding of transgender issues increased eightfold during this time, from the Pritzker family, George Soros, Warren Buffett and others. The Department of State has allocated over $30 million of taxpayers' money to advance this agenda. Planned Parenthood is now the second largest provider of gender-affirming. Okay, folks, we're going to go to break. We're going to come back with David Ike. But I mean, look at that report Gregory's just put out And that's banned on YouTube, banned everywhere. We're not going to see that anywhere but bannedvideo. It's so important. Castration, Incorporated Planned Parenthood, the business of transgenderism: that needs to be seen by everybody on the planet, especially people with children being targeted by this post-human agenda. David Ike has been on the forefront as a vanguard exposing all this, And we'll talk to him in 60 seconds. Please tell folks to tune in. Cyber Week is here with the biggest sales of 2019: amazing products that will change your life, guaranteed. Not only will the products make you healthier, happier, more focused, more energized, they will fund the Info Wars operation into the critical year of 2020.. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot of people notice I've lost weight. I have more focus, There's more of a sparkle in my eye And it's because I've been taking the 8-pack power stack in the morning and at night. I've been taking X2 and X3.. I've been taking Brain Force Plus. Quite frankly, I can't take Turbo Force. It's just too powerful. I have been taking the fish oil and the krill oil when I go to sleep at night And it's totally energized my life. I know our products work, but I'm like everybody else: I use them, then I forget about them. Ladies and gentlemen, these products are amazing. There's huge sales, triple-patriot points, free shipping. 57% off. importstorecom. Cyber Week is here. Before there was Alex Jones on the scene, there was David Ike. I remember he blasted on the scene in the early 1990s. He had been a top British broadcasting host of their morning shows, nighttime shows, sports programs. He was the mainstay of the UK and really around the world. And then he had a- I guess Saul on the road to Damascus moment, hit by that bolt of light and suddenly saw a whole different paradigm view of the universe. And I would read the things David Ike was saying just a few years before I even got on air And I thought, well, this is just too far out. But then, as I personally just researched from the news and from white papers and from what was admitted as time went on, it more and more lined up with what David Ike had been saying as the future became the present. And so I know this now, Whoever's running this, whatever it is, it's anti-human and it's telling us humans are a disease in bad and we need to be taken off the planet And that a post-human world is about to be here and that only those that merge with machines will be part of the future. Now, Ray Kurzweil said that 30 years ago and other transhumanists said that that come out of the eugenics movement that created the whole movement with the trans agenda to give up our humanity. But as we go down this road and as it becomes out in the open, as it emerges, as David Ike said so long ago, it would finally do we learn that it is definitely poisonous, It's definitely making our lifespan go down, It's making us be completely mentally ill, It's causing us to have all these diseases, It's causing us to be hateful, It's causing suicide to explode And everything they're doing- the white papers come out from Bayer Pharmaceutical and Monsanto and others- that they knowingly put out life of state to cause massive cancer in women. They knowingly put fluoride in the water to lower IQ and destroy fertility. It's now all admitted. They knowingly do all of this to stun us, like a spider bites its prey, but just enough to stun it. then it winds it up, waits for the poison over the next few days to liquefy its insides and then sucks it all out. Well, the spider is now moving towards us to finish the meal, And that's how David Ike described it, as a spider at the center of the web. So I want to cover the waterfront today. He's been on hiatus, writing books, making films. I was saying, hey, I've been on a couple of years, why? He said I've just had my head down. Well, he's here now and hopefully he'll come back again soon, because two hours with the breaks is not enough to cover every angle. Now I didn't know where he'd go with hundreds of pieces of this puzzle, But he said the global corporate climate takeover and transgenderism as the gateway to transhumanism, which was in my stack as the first thing I was going to bring up, knowing how key it is, without even talking to David. So we're on the same page there. But just a big picture. The globalist Elon Musk was challenging this, saying: beware those worship AI gods and they want to get rid of humans. Now he says: oh, take brain chips. They're coming out next year. Put them in your kids, You're going to get to see the other dimensions. You'll be able to see these entities. and he's tweeting images of demons and owls. And this is a Silicon Valley cult that admits now that they believe that through DMT, they're in contact with these other realms and entities. So all of these things you talked about almost 30 years ago are now coming to the surface, David. So whether it's truly real or not, or whether it's some genetic mass hallucination with the inbred elites and a product of that, it's still real. So, David, that's my intro. Davidcom, your new book is out as well. I can't wait to read it. The trigger, the explosive new book by David Ike, now available. Thank you so much for joining us. You'll have the floor for the next hour and 50 minutes. Where would you like to start? Well, Alex, nice to talk to you again. Glad you're still going after all, the, all the bands, et cetera. And we have to keep going, because it's starting to dawn on people for the first time in many cases that the scale of what's going on is absolutely vast. And so often people look at the news and they look at world events And they will research this or their research that, all of which needs doing. But there's still dots within a vast picture. And once you realize what that picture is, then all the dots fall into place. And I have this phrase I use: know the outcome and you'll see the journey. And if we can uncover what the outcome is planned to be, then suddenly everything that happens daily in the world that appears to be to most people, random and happening in and of itself. Suddenly, once you know what the planned outcome is, become very clear and blatant steps towards that outcome. And so, if we look at the big picture, and again, you know, as you say- I've been saying this for a very, very long time And being ridiculed for it- because you know, if you're going to be a relatively few and you are going to control billions and you are going to direct the society of billions, you have to control the perceptions of the billions, Because from perception comes behavior. You want to control behavior, you control perception. And how do you control perception? How do we form perceptions? We form perceptions from information received. It could be a personal experience, It could be the 10 o'clock news, a Facebook post. It's information received. We form our perceptions. from our perceptions come our behavior. So in that sequence, first and foremost, control information. That's what all this censorship is about and all the bans and all the suppression. And it's also what the education system is about, which is a massive perceptual programming operation which starts at a very young age, continues through all the formative years of young people- This is where all the work stuff is coming out of- and then continues through mainstream sources for the rest of a person's life, A human life, is actually a perceptual download of the official version of everything. And I say that in relation to what we're talking about is the narrow band of information perception that we're given what I call the postage stamp. consensus only allows for a tiny, tiny span of possibility. If you stay within that postage stamp of possibility, the real world mate, then you're, you're all right, You're intelligent, You are always a good mind. Oh yeah, he's intelligent, man He is. But you step off that postage stamp and you start exploring information and areas of life and society that are beyond the postage stamp, IE people like me saying, actually, behind all, this is a non human force and postage stamp perception, Well, by reflex action, just like pressing enter on a computer, will defend the status quo. We've got to go to break. But before I even talk to you, we didn't do any. pre interview, David, I said I want you upfront to go to the end And, as you're saying, it's critical to go to the end first. When we come back, I hope you'll go to the end and then we'll go back to the beginning, as best your knowledge is. But now it's. everybody knows this is a non human force, whatever it is, and it's out to tell us. So we got 45 seconds, Please continue. So people like me, therefore, all these decades, have been ridiculed and dismissed for talking about a non human force being behind all this, And a lot of people who've ridiculed me have been those that follow the Bible and talk about demons. You've got the Islamic belief system. We talk about the gin. You've got the Nostics belief system that talked about the Arkons. You've got the Zulu belief system that talks about the Chittahuri. These are all different names for this non human force. Let's talk about the enemy when we come back with David Ike. Blockchain data centers have a proven turnkey equipment sale leaseback program with a 27% annualized lease payment deposited into your bank account each month. Don't miss this one. Stake your claim today. Call 800-600-3388.. That's 800-600-3388.. These valuable lease contracts won't last long. Call now 800-600-3388.. 800-600-3388.. This equipment offer poses a financial risk to owners. consult with financial professionals before purchasing, not an offer to buy or sell a security which requires an offering document. Hunters, anglers, campers and survivalists: get back to nature. Expand your horizons with the highest quality, most versatile, unique sling shots and sling bows on the market at slingbowcom. Sling bow products are compact and models start from just 1798.. They're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle. Give yourself and your loved ones the excitement and tradition of sling bow- A new frontier in archery and truly modern twist on this primitive survival tool. Feel the thrill only at slingbowcom- Danpillacom. If you want to take action and not listen to the advisors that tell him to hold back and that if he goes after the deep state that they'll remove him from office. They're trying to remove him regardless because they know that God put him in office and that he's going to continue his work and he's going to continue exposing him and bringing them down, But that if he doesn't execute in that office that God's given him, that the globalist could win. Ladies and gentlemen, now is the time more than ever, to pray for President Trump, and please pray for him for wars, and please pray for all the children being targeted by the globalist. Thank you, and God bless you all. Folks, I live this every day. I read the news like nobody else, probably, and they have been hitting hundreds of congressional candidates and members of Congress. They've been going after governor state reps. it's been a rain of terror. last week, they wouldn't let Melania Trump images be sent out saying it was hate speech. Ladies and gentlemen, this is beyond censorship. it's total information control. It has to all go through a filter and that's what AI allows is what I call information singularity- not empowering information, but holding it all in like the one ring of Mordor. Trump must act now. they will steal this election. You're listening to the Alex Jones show: Big Brother, mainstream media, government coverups. you want to stop tyranny will so? does he live from the info wars dot com studios? it's Alex Jones. Ladies and gentlemen, it is December 3rd 2019. on this live worldwide broadcast, I'm your host, Alex Jones, and David Ike is our guest here today and he's got the floor here to talk about this non human force That now has the planetary controllers openly saying they're building a post human world, ladies and gentlemen, a post human world that humans are bad and the environmental movement is going to save the earth from the humans, And then all that's going to be left is humans that give up their original form. David Ike, thank you for joining us. David Ike dot com, please continue pleasure. Well, what I've been talking about for the best part of 30 years in terms of this subject is the fact that you can- you can track this in different cultures. This is one of the very compelling things about this. When you look at the, the accounts and the legends and the stories from different cultures all around the world, this same common theme is there again and again and again, under different names, but the theme is the same: That a non human force came in and started to hijack the human world, and their plan is to assimilate human consciousness into itself. And so you know, I am. I hear people talk about AI this and AI that and AI the other. I very rarely hear anyone say: but what is AI? what is it? artificial intelligence, Yeah, but what does that mean? There are different levels. obviously, there's algorithmic artificial intelligence. that's what they call learning artificial intelligence. Well, what I've been saying for years and years and years is there's one level of this artificial intelligence that is actually the force that I'm talking about. And so when you have Ray Kurzweil, as you mentioned, and others- the utter fraud, by the way, Elon Musk- We could talk about him a bit more later- maybe they- and certainly Kurzweil talks about by 2030, gives that that time period, humans will start to have their brains connected to AI, And the reason that they're so open about it is the sales pitch, the sales pitches- will become super human. we will not. we will become sub human and post human, Because once AI is connected to the human brain- and Kurzweil is very open about this, I'm- AI will do more and more and more of human thinking, he says, until human thinking as we know it now is negligible, in the end gone. And what I've just described, just by quoting him, is the assimilation of human consciousness, the end of the human mind as we know it. So, instead of having to manipulate information to dictate perception, which dictates behavior, through this AI connection, No need for any of that, because our thoughts and what passed within our emotional responses will be coming direct. This is what it's all about, And what's happened is what I call the totalitarian tiptoe. step by step by step, We have been infiltrated by artificial intelligence which is doing more and more of what humans used to do, taking over more and more of human society. And, of course, people like me- and I'm 67, born in 1952. I have a radar, I know what it was like before And I can see what it's like now in comparison, The young people and the kids being born today. this is all they know This is reality to them, this technological AI insanity. And the idea was why they're targeting the young, why they've got the young addicted to smartphones, which they hold, then addicted to things on their body, like your smart watches and your Bluetooth and all the rest of it. And the next stage, which is already underway: getting in the body, this step by step by step, kitty kitty here, kitty, kitty kitty. The reason why they're doing this technique is because the young people that they're targeting now will be the adults when they want to bring this in full blown and they want the young So addicted to technology that they will accept the outcome because they've got to get the next version. and let's let's talk about that, because this is all admitted now. I talked about it 25 years ago. It's all admitted that they're making humans obsolete and the AI is already making all the decisions. It doesn't ask and interfaces from the phone into your car, tells you when you need gas, even before the car blinks on, and tells you you need gas. People don't know how to do math anymore. People don't know how to communicate. The language is shrinking. We're dying. This isn't empowering us, like Elon Musk says it will. It's killing us, and he said it a few months ago. He said the AI won't take over your brain right away and then started laughing. His eyes are all whacked out. His pupils are giant. Tim Cook's pupils are giant. I know a lot of military's already gotten brain chips. I told people that 15 years ago was declassified 10 years ago from the Intel. I've got a lot of. these guys already have chips and are also on a lot of drugs. and that goes into the whole culture of Silicon Valley and convincing people to give up their humanity. Well, Elon Musk is a total fraud. I've been pointing him out for a long time. You know, when you come out and you say that AI could be the end of humanity Brackets- true. And then you start a company called Neuralink to connect the human brain to computers, When this smart grid, which is what the human mind and technology and everything through the Internet of Things etc. is designed to be connected to, this smart grid, is absolutely essential to this AI takeover of the human mind. It's all connected And if you are going to have a global grid, a global bubble, artificial bubble, which you are going to connect everyone to, then things like Wi-Fi and the Internet have to be on every inch of the planet. It has to be No one excluded. That's the idea of this grid And this is the site of the AI system that interfaces the humans and absorbs us. And Google admitted when they were founded 25 years ago, their plan was to build an AI human interface where we are part of the AI, Just as Arthur C Clarke envisioned. and then he wrote Childhood's End, about us being uploaded into the mothership but giving up our bodies. And now they're saying Childhood's End is real and that that's the plan they want us to carry out. Yeah, I mean, this wasn't decided yesterday. Of course, it goes way, way, way, way back into what we perceive as history, But where I was going with this is that the only way you're going to cover the entire planet with the cloud, as Kurzweil thought, it is from space. And here we have the same Elon Musk through his SpaceX that's sending up all the satellites. Stay there, David Ike. You're on fire. David Ike, That's Black RifleRealEstatecom. It's shocking but true. 2019 is almost a memory in the rear view mirror And Cyber Week is here. the best deals of the year: Store-wide free shipping, triple Patriot points for the first time ever, 50 to 70% off. Many of these products are lost leaders. We are only 330 days out from the 2020 election. It is an incredible time to be alive. It's an incredible time to still be on the air where almost everybody else has been shut down and censored. Yes, we were the first to be censored because we're such a threat to the globalists, But now, thanks to the infrastructure and your support, we're still on air. But bigger attacks are already happening. more are coming. So please spread the word about the broadcast and funder operation while getting great products out there And while getting great products at the same time- a true 360 win. Cyber Week is here. Get those Christmas presents for you and your family today at mfoldwarstorecom. Cyber Week is here with the biggest sales of 2019.. No sales in our history can even approach this Triple Patriot points. Store-wide free shipping, 50 to 70% off, And when you add auto-ship to it on the order, a lot of these products become lost leaders, meaning I'm losing money on them, but bringing in capital so I can fund ourselves into next year. It is critical for folks to take advantage of these sales. If you've ever been on the fence trying some of the products, like the protein bars or turbo force and the fish oil. now is the time we've got huge specials on DNA Force Plus, our flagship product- with a free bottle of Brain Force Plus with it. It's all available at mfoldwarstorecom during Cyber Week Now a lot of these sales will continue through Christmas, but some of them have to end because the products are selling out. mfoldwarstorecom funds the Mfold War. Thank you, If you understand why the globalist, why the servants of Satan hate Mfold Wars, it's because we're awake, we're alive, we're passionate and we're not giving up. That's why it's critical for those of us that are aware of the New World Order's plans to not get down when they attack us and they persecute us and they lie about us. That's what we should expect, because we are hurting these scumbags. The globalists have literally sold their souls to the dark side and they do what they do because they're slaves, because they are eternally driven to try to suppress and dominate and destroy the innocent. It is up to us who are awake- not the sheep and not the wolves, but the sheepdogs- to stand firm and resist these wicked tyrants. They fear the fact that we are awake, they fear the fact that we are alive, they fear the fact that we love God, and that's all we ever have to know is that God is in charge. I'm not normally standing on my feet when I have a guest on, but more and more I'm standing up during the broadcast to symbolize that we're not in Kansas anymore. The fight for human consciousness, the war on for our mind, is intensifying. David Ike is here. DavidIkecom needs no introduction. He's laying out the total takeover, the post-human world, the addiction to the phones, the devices like a face sucker now entering our body. All the major sites, all the major tech companies are coming out with competing brain chips. Facebook, Google- they've already got the devices on our homes spying on us. Suddenly they admit what we were telling you decades ago, that they would put these devices in your homes and then spy on you. and it's all admitted. Now they've moved on to brain chips for you and your family. Now pedophilia is being normalized. What's it all about? David Ike pioneered, exposing the pedophilia running the British government, how it was spreading worldwide. Now that's all out in the open. I want him to lay it out for you here today and how we can reverse this. And there is a huge awakening. There isn't just evil in the universe, There's good. And so how do we expose this and fight this, and what is the good path into the future versus where this non-human, anti-human force wants to take us? Where is that place versus where we could go, David Ike? Well, I could just finish what I was saying before the break, Alex, about Elon Musk: If you're going to cover every inch of the planet with this cloud which you're going to connect the human brain to, then you've got to do it from space. And it's Elon Musk again who, through SpaceX, is putting all these satellites up- And there's meant to be tens of thousands of them eventually- that are beaming Wi-Fi and 5G at the entirety of the planet. And the end game in all this is to create a technological sub-reality which humans are connected to and will be no more than computer terminals on this internet and this manufactured internet of control, the smart grid. And one of the other things that I've been saying over the years is that this non-human force operates beyond the human frequency band. Because, again, if you just take the postage stamp, consensus version of possibility that we're given from cradle to grave, then people will think that when they look through their eyes they're seeing everything there is in the space they're looking at, But they're not. It's tiny the band of frequency that we have for visual sight Tiny. According to mainstream science, the electromagnetic spectrum is 0.005% of what exists in the universe. Visible light, which is the only tiny band of frequency that we can see, is a smear of the 0.005%. So the virtual entirety of existence in infinite existence is denied to us. We cannot see it because this vehicle will not decode it. It's like being tuned to a radio or television station and it can see and experience only that station. I can't switch the channel, We can, but most people don't. And this force is operating outside of the human frequency band, And so to manipulate within the human frequency band, they've had to create a network of bloodlines and secret societies to manipulate human society on behalf of this force. And this is what the Satanists are interacting with in their rituals. They're interacting with this non-human force operating outside the human frequency band, And so when people talk about bloodlines, of course royalty goes back. I mean royalty. What is royalty? Oh, it's bloodline. All right, What's our riskocracy? Oh, it's bloodline. What does that mean? To breed, Yeah, but why did they had to breed? Why have these bloodlines been so obsessed with interbreeding since the ancient world? For a long time they called it royal and aristocratic. They still do in Britain, staggeringly, We have a head of state in Britain, the queen and her Adams family, children And David. let me briefly interject on this. We now know what was hypothesized hundreds of years ago: that birds, insects, but also humans, have cone cells in the brain that are able to pick up the magnetic line. So that's how geese can fly north in the summer, south in the winter. That's how hummingbirds can fly from North America 3,000 miles, 4,000 miles of South America, along those magnetic lines. And so the royalty is interbreeding to again develop receptors in the brain that are already there, but to intensify those to pick up a certain interdimensional frequency. And the reason I say this is studying skull and bones, reading secret documents that Anthony Sutton got from Charlotte, Israel and others. That's why they're doing this. They believe they call it spiritualism that they're interfacing with these entities, But really it's again just electromagnetic through this galactic internet. And you're absolutely right that now the globalists admit that they are communicating with entities more and more And they're rolling it out at the university research level and people taking DMT and other drugs intervenously, are going in and out, mapping these dimensions, And now they're trying to externalize that method that I heard about when I was a kid because I just happened to be at the dinner table with some researchers that had been involved in it And they were telling my parents about it. I'm just going to leave it at that. But I'm a kid hearing about this and it just sounds completely fantastical. Then you forget about it for a long time. But my parents had some friends that were in research science in San Francisco And that seems to be one of the main epicenters of the research in this post-human world. So you're talking about all this, but now they say they want a post-human world. Now they say humanity is about to be obsolete. in BC News They now say we're going to merge with machines. They now say that we are the robots. So, yes, this is their admitted plans. I wanted to ask you: why are they now suddenly admitting so much of the plan after denying it for so long? And, as you said, they're putting in the 5G systems that literally will slowly kill our humanity while they control us as biological androids. What they've done with the technological agenda is that they are selling it as a wonderful thing. The more and more we allow technology to become part of us, the more it will be like gods and all this nonsense- It's the sales pitch. See, there comes a point where you can't hide it anymore because it's so obvious. So for a long time you keep your plan secret because you don't want to give people a long period of preparation, of knowing where it's going To find the resistance. So what you then do is you get close to your endgame. and when you get close to your endgame, so many things are going into place that really anyone with half a brain cell on active duty could see it. So what you do? when it becomes visible- because it has to be if it's going to become what society is- then you start selling it as a good thing and a wonderful thing. This is why we've had this shift. It's selling this Orwellian technological nightmare as a wonderful thing. I'll tell you another part of this. The Green Party in Britain had its conference a few weeks ago. Some people in the Green Party- only a few, unfortunately- wanted a debate at that conference on 5G and the Green Party hierarchy turned it down. And when one or two of the people protested outside that this debate had been denied, a security guard came out and said that if they didn't go away, that they'd call the police. This is where the Green Movement has gone. now It's become the climate- By the way, you were the leader of that- what 30-something years ago? Stay there, David Ike. When we come back, we're going to lay this out- the compartmentalization and where the globalist endgame goes, the post-human endgame. Even if you don't believe, it's aliens, folks, random dimensionals, whatever you want to call them- the globalists say: the post-human world's here and that you're all dead and I'm dead while they slowly kill us. Well, I'm angry and I'm awake and I'm going to do something about it. What are you going to do, David Ike's, our guest, DavidIkecom. I'm Alex Jones. Twilight is here, The sun is setting on 2019 and we hurdle into the year 2020, only 330 days out from this incredibly historic election- And it's more important than ever to pray for President Trump and to pray for his provision and his protection- He's completely surrounded- and to pray for him to have discernment and to be bold and to take action and not listen to the advisors that tell him to hold back, that if he goes after the deep state, that they'll remove him from office. they're trying to remove him regardless because they know that God put him in office and that he's going to continue his work and he's going to continue exposing them and bringing them down, But that if he doesn't execute in that office that God's given him, that the globalist could win. Ladies and gentlemen, now is the time, more than ever, to pray for President Trump, and please pray for him for wars, and please pray for all the children being targeted by the globalist. Thank you, and God bless you all. And so it's very simple: If you don't want to be slaves and you want to see the fight taken to the enemy, which God wants to see, you see, we have to make the effort: 110%. God will finish the move. And I know I need to stay in the fight, in the attack, attack, attack. I want to attack, I want to go after the globalists. and just believe me, ladies and gentlemen, that if you want somebody to commit to you and your family to fight for all of our futures together, you've got to guarantee you keep me in the game. I'm going to bust my ass with everything I got for us, for myself and my family, for your family. Let's get those together. InfowarsStorecom. And it's because I've been taking the eight pack power stack. in the morning and at night I've been taking X2 and X3.. I've been taking Brain Force Plus. Quite frankly, I can't take Turbo Force, It's just too powerful. I have been taking the fish oil and the krill oil when I go to sleep at night and it's totally energized my life. I know our products work, but I'm like everybody else: I use them, then I forget about them. Ladies and gentlemen, these products are amazing. There's huge sales, triple patriot points: free shipping, 57% off. InfowarsStorecom Cyber Week is here. My phone has been ringing off the hook. Dozens and dozens of people have called me. I've gotten all these text messages. The office phone's ringing off the hook. Emails are flooding in. They're saying: can you believe it? 300 Trump ads that were going to run tens of millions of times were pulled by Google, And then it turns out it was done over the summer. Folks, I live this every day. I read the news like nobody else, probably, And they have been hitting hundreds of congressional candidates and members of Congress. They've been going after governors, state reps. It's been a reign of terror. Last week they wouldn't let Melania Trump images be sent out, saying it was hate speech. Ladies and gentlemen, this is beyond censorship. It's total information control. It has to all go through a filter, and that's what AI allows, is what I call information singularity- Not empowering information, but holding it all in like the one ring of Mordor. Trump must act now or they will steal this election. If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance Live from the Infowarscom studios. it's Alex Jones. This is not a simulation, This is not a drill Or, as I've said, the simulation is real. But all these big top CEOs, the head of Bank of America, came out here and said: this is all a simulation. Something's holding it in place, We're enslaved by something, And they've got the dark matter studies and the mathematics equation showing that there's a force many times more powerful than this reality holding it in place artificially. What's really going on? I read David Ike's books- I don't know, like 26,, 27 years ago- where he was talking about just that. So whatever humans can theoretically think of, we end up finding out actually exist. What a wild universe. Who are the players? Well, the ruling class have a good idea who the players are and they're keeping us away from knowing that. But all the ancient cultures and the Bible, the Old Andean Testament, give you a pretty clear idea and it matches up with what other cultures said, And now towards the end game: world government Mark of the Beast: the Chinese Communist Social Score. the UN came out- it's in Reuters today and said the Chinese communists are running the global standardization of face scanning for a world ID to access the internet And all this stuff's been building very slowly but now more is happening in a week than what happened in six months. Then more is going to happen in a day than what happened in a year. It's a quickening, It's an acceleration. David Ike's here And you need to get his books. They'll definitely get people thinking. I'm not even saying I agree with all of it, but I'm very, very open to it because I respect David Ike And I'd say about 90% of what he's talked about has turned out to be accurate. He is a maverick, a man before his time. That's coming to you from somebody who's a man before his time. Obviously you're an audience of activists before your time. We aren't just following globalist scripts, We are the vanguard and we need to remember that and understand that. The trigger. the explosive new book by David Ike is available at DavidIkecom. We'll talk more about that in the next hour with him. Please don't forget we've got Cyber Monday. It's being a cyber sales going right now. These are the biggest sales of the year so far. And we've got 15 new bumper stickers in. Every order gets an assortment of those to help spread the word and help trigger the leftist and control freaks. And we've got just huge sales with free bottles of Brain Force Plus. the great healthy Neutropic. with DNA Force Plus 50% off. that cleans out your cells, helps your telomeres last longer. DNA Force, the PQQ, CoQ10, Survival Shield X2 and X3. get that 50% off, the free bottle of Brain Force Plus. And then all these other products are back in stock: Krill Oil- the highest quality- Wow, talk about psychedelic. Ultra 12, the great B12 back in stock. the new Super Silver whitening toothpaste without the fluoride. It's so critical for you and your family. Chill force- back in stock. turbo force body- 50% off. I'm not going to go through it all, Just check it out today in FullWarStorecom, Because they are trying to shut us down. as you've seen, They're really pissed off that you keep spreading the word because they know as their plan emerges, as it all gets admitted- world government, pedophilia as the world religion, vampirism, Satanism- out in the open, As all of this comes out, as the Epstein comes out as all the Royal Family Devil worship comes out, the Jimmy Savelle stuff comes out As it all comes out. our credibility's got to go up, So they've got to have a silenced or a forgotten, or they need to silence us so they can build a strong man and put words in our mouth. But we're not silenced. David Ike isn't silenced. So, David, please continue with the big agenda, where they're taking us and how we counter it. And then I want to get into the Satanism, the pedophilia of the Royal Family, because you've been a trailblazer exposing that. Yeah, well, as I was saying before the break, the Green Party doesn't want to know and the climate cult in general, which is what the Green Party's become, unfortunately. They don't want to know about challenging 5G and this whole technological agenda. And the break interrupted you and so did I. Go back to the. some people wanted to raise it at the conference so they were threatening to call the police on them. The environmentalists now want radiation. They want 5G. Top environmentalists say: get rid of humans, Radiation's good. Well, the reason that they are supporting this stuff is that it is being sold to them as a way of overcoming climate change and saving the planet And this whole climate hoax is a fundamental key to the justification of almost everything, not just this whole technological agenda, but what goes with it, which is the centralization of global power over the fine detail of our lives. And so you need an excuse to centralize power, to dictate the fine detail of people's lives, And this climate hoax is what they've chosen to do it through. So if you start looking now as this climate cult agenda gets faster and faster and more expansive, all the different elements that this cult wants, the big cult wants, the global cult wants- are being justified by saving the planet from climate change, not least massive centralization of power. And what's happened and will go back to this postage stamp consensus. Recent generations have had that postage stamp squeezed and squeezed as they've gone through the education system or what passes for it. And not only have they had their perceptions of reality, the world, etc. downloaded, There has been a political agenda relating not least to the climate cult and all that they want to unfold because of it. There's been going through the schools. the sexuality, the gender agenda is going through the schools as well, being forced on kids And what we're now seeing. It's totally massive in public schools, private schools, colleges, down to five year olds in kindergarten, teaching children to masturbate, sexualizing the men and girls restrooms. What is the end game of this full on assault? Well, this is all an expression of this squeezing of the postage stamp. They are indoctrinating and manipulating the minds of the young to have a perception of reality that absolutely suits where they want the world to go, And therefore, in the end, the young people come out of the education system and they become adults and they go into things like politics. There's no greater example of an outcome of this programming than Alexandria, Cassio Cortez and her Green New Deal. What the Green New Deal is demanding and what the Extinction Rebellion Organization that shuts streets in London and around the world is demanding, which is the same, Is the centralization of power over every area of people's lives on the basis of saving the planet, And they admit that AI will manage and watch every human activity to save the earth. So it's a global problem, a global solution, a global tax with global surveillance, to then selectively cut off individuals and groups, energy that don't comply with all the other demands of the social credit score. Yeah, and it's all a mind game. It's all about manipulating and imposing a perception, because from perception comes everything else. So when you're trying to manipulate the young- and crucially not least, this is happening through the climate hoax, divide the young from older people- another level, another fault line of divide and rule. So you bring in a young person, Greta Thunberg, and you turn her into some kind of martyr God who calls on kids around the world to strike over the climate, And she's very Hitlerian- big, huge, creepy murals. and you better do this. We're going to make you pay for what you've done to us. But the idea is you get a young person to focus the attention of young people, And for me, Greta Thunberg has been extraordinarily abused and go on to go on being abused and exploited by using her- And that's the form of abuse I'm talking about- by using her as a political tool to bring about an agenda. So all this is going on And the outcome is designed to be a global Marxist stroke fascist state. And let's go to that. Let's talk about where they're taking us in the endgame, where they admit they're taking us, and how we counter that in this next hour with DavidIkeofDavidIkecom. It's a new book, The Trigger. I can't wait to read it. You should get it. You should give it to friends and family. You should wake people up. That's the number one mission. It's not work, It's the animating contest of liberty, It's survival, Andy in Florida. Thank you, Andy, Go ahead. Hey, Alex, I love you man, We love you. Before I go ahead and talk about the topic on hand, I got to talk about one of your products. A little bit about me. I'm 245 pounds, I work about 10 to 13 hours a day at UPS and make a long story short. I used to have a problem with Adderall. I do have ADHD, but you know I was taking Adderall for its energy boosting properties. you know I kind of got a little out of hand and you know I listen to you religiously in my truck every day. So I tried your turbo force and really it's a cliche- This product changed my life, but turbo force really changed my life. It was a day I'd no longer take Adderall and I get by literally 13 hours a day. I work on a half of a packet of your turbo force And if you take a half a packet that's literally a dollar a day and you save so much money versus, you know, a monster which is what? 499.. And you know I just had to call and tell you guys how great turbo force is, And if anybody's on the fence, they really have to try it. We're really proud of turbo force. So thank you, sir. Commit to buy a lot of your products at m4storecom, then help us spread the word. Let's just get busy m4storecom. The last few days I've been online looking for the speech, actually read it in a book about Winston Churchill many years ago, And I've found a few places where it's mentioned. but if you can find it, please send it to showtipstem4warscom. And he talked about, in the darkest hours at the beginning of World War II, the fact that there have been times in history where people had a chance to stand up and fight early on and were assured of victory. Then there was a second point in history where folks have to fight even though the chances of winning are pretty steep. There's a third time when you know you're going to lose, but you have to fight because being enslaved and being slowly killed is much, much worse. That's a paraphrase. But, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the position now of being able to win this easily if we find our spirit, find our focus and don't give up and take action. But if we don't stand up and get involved. we're going to skip number two and go right to number three. That's a fact. They fear info wars because we are alive. It's time for the world to awaken and take back our future. That's the sound that a group of humans can make together. That's beautiful. We are an amazing species, but there are dark forces in this universe that seek to enslave us and force us to merge with their silicon system. It's now out in the open. Can you believe? it's all out in the open now. When will the creatures step out from behind the shadows? or will they ever? There's no doubt about it, ladies and gentlemen. They're keeping babies alive. They're selling their organs. There's a world government. There's an attack on the family. This is a short segment, a long segment coming up. David, before we go any further, because you never do this when you come on, I haven't read your book yet. I've read many of your books. I'm going to get your book The Trigger. It's got the Twin Towers blowing up on the cover. I can guess what the book's about, but tell us about the book. Tell us where you've been. I usually do a lot of conferences and speeches. I know you've cut way back the last year and a half and we've all missed you. so spend a few minutes on David Ike. Well, I've been doing internet videos all the time, as I do, but I've been writing a book. I've almost finished another one since this one came out and I set about doing an update on a book I wrote about 9-11 called Alice in Wonderland and the World Trade Center Disaster. It came out in September 2002, and I set about just doing an update and within two weeks I thought this is not going to be an update. This is going to be a whole blank sheet of paper. And I put together this massive work, which is in two parts. The first- and it's not just about 9-11,, but that's the theme- The first part of it demolishes the official story of 9-11,, which is an absolute joke and an insult to the families who lost loved ones on 9-11,- an absolute insult. And in the second half of the book, I tell an amazing story leading to who actually did do 9-11,, who was really centrally orchestrating 9-11,- and it wasn't 19 hijackers that couldn't fly one engine sessions. And it's a story that goes back to the 17th century and the creation of a cult called Saboteanism through a guy called Zabotai Zevi. And in the next century a guy came along. He claimed to be a Jewish Messiah. In the next century, along came a guy called Jacob Frank who said he was the reincarnation of Zevi and the biblical patriarch Jacob. And Saboteanism became Sabotean Frankism, And what it is is an inversion of Judaism. What it does. it takes, for instance, if in Judaism it's a day of fasting, then in Sabotean Frankism it's a day of feasting. These Sabotean Frankists hate Jewish people, but they hide behind them And I follow how. their great technique is infiltration. They'll infiltrate, say, the Jewish community. they'll infiltrate, as they did the Islamic community. they'll infiltrate the Christian community and they'll appear to be advocates of that religion or that culture, while working towards the agenda of this cult, Sabotean Frankism, And its public name is the ADL today correct. Well, that's one expression of it. It's got a vast global network now which made it able to manipulate 9-11.. The core of the CIA and the American deep state is the Sabotean Frankist death cult, and in other places around the world too. I'll tell you a quick story if I've got time before the break. And a lot of the Nazis part of the Sabotean cult. Absolutely It's all connected. And Sabotezevi operated in the Ottoman Empire, the Islamic Ottoman Empire, and he was told by the Sultan that he either converted to Islam or they would sort him out, if you know what I mean. So he converted, And a lot of his followers, because by that time in the 17th century, he had a million followers. Hold on, Listen, let's get more into this. This is really important too. Wow, The David Ikes Art Gas. We'll be back in 60 seconds. This is one of the prices that literally fund the system where the spirit of resistance lives, to drive it home to the enemy. And so it's very simple: If you don't want to be slaves and you want to see the fight taken to the enemy, which God wants to see, You see, we have to make the effort: 110%. God will finish the move, And I know I need to stay in the fight, in the attack, attack, attack. I want to attack, I want to go after the globalists. And just believe me, ladies and gentlemen, that if you want somebody to commit to you and your family to fight for all of our futures together, you've got to guarantee you keep me in the game. I'm going to bust my ass with everything I got for us, for myself and my family, for your family because we're in this together. InfowarsStorecom- Well, you never know where David and I will go next, but it's always intriguing and very informative. I said: what's your new book, The Trigger? I haven't read it yet And just came out and he plunged into it A bizarre death cult that I'm aware of and I'm aware of it being very powerful, And I'm aware of some of those folks interfacing with the Islamics, interfacing with multiple groups, And he was laying that out. So to finish up there, then I want to cut right to the chase with the off-world or interdimensional systems that the globalists admit they're interfacing with, why they do the occult rituals, why they hurt children, the energy of children, the different levels of it, why they're externalizing the hierarchy or the method right now. and then how we counter it with David Ike here with us at DavidIkecom- Again, I'm Alex Jones, But then FullWarscom. we've got Cyber Week going critical to fund ourselves in the next year under all the attacks: store-wide free shipping, triple-patria points that we've done that before and huge sales. We'll keep the sale going for the rest of the week, but some of these things are about to go off sale. A couple of things went off sale today because we're about to sell out. So take advantage of that and fund our operation. Don't spend your money with the big box stores or with the globalist anti-gun grips like Amazon and others. If you've got a choice, I'm not judging. If you buy some stuff of Amazon. it's very convenient, Everybody does it. But FullWarscom has great t-shirts, great books, great films, the best air filtration, best water filtration, a lot of good preparedness gear, great non-GMO heirloom seeds and, of course, the best supplements out there you're going to find anywhere. So get your fish oil from us, Get your brain boost from us. Get your products at FullWarscom, Get your Wake Up America coffee. People drink it. It's got five stars by major coffee snob websites. It's that good. Infowarsstorecom. Whatever you do, do your shopping with us, Keeps us on the air and it's critical to get the info out So you can hear people like David Icke. I was talking during the break. He said: oh yeah, he's massively shadow banned, massively blocked. His videos still get millions of views online and that's when they're shadow banned. So very important, Everybody realize this is not a spectator sport. We're all in this together and you're human intelligence. promoting the interviews, promoting the local stations. That's how we circumnavigate the censors. So I want to thank the viewers again, David, finishing up with your book, The Trigger, that I'm definitely going to read, Tell us more about it. So this Sabotai Zevi, who claimed to be the Jewish Messiah, who ran this Sabotian cult that was an inversion of Judaism. He was given the choice by the Sultan in the Ottoman Empire of convert to Islam or it's over. So he converted and a large number of his followers converted and they became known as the Donma, or Donmet, which means to turn, And they outwardly claim to be followers of Islam, but they were Sabotians, which is a satanic cult. And I follow through one stream of this Donma and guess where it led the Saudi royal family. And it led to another Sabotian called Wahab who, with the British Empire and the House of Saud, which the Wahabi's daughter married into, we get Wahabism, this head chopping, ISIS extreme version of Islam, which is being used, of course, to create mayhem in the Middle East. You follow other streams of this Sabotian Frankis cult and it infiltrated the Roman Catholic Church. It was the force, because the Rothschilds are Sabotian Frankists. It was the force behind the creation of Israel. I have a chapter in the book called Atlantic Crossing where I show how this cult moved in on the United States. It's in Britain and it's an expert in infiltration. It will appear as anything it wants to infiltrate and people will believe that, yeah, they really believe in whatever they claim to be. but they're working behind the scenes as the Donmet, the infiltrators, And the deep state in America at its core is controlled by the Sabotian Frankists and the Israeli government. I'm not talking about Jewish people. I mean I've said in the book about three times: no one needs to read this book more urgently than Jewish people to see how they've been scammed by these infiltrators. Well, let's pull back from that, because we know the Rothschilds are trying to put Netanyahu in prison. That's certainly going on. So there's major splits and power groups and things going on. And then we know that the Rothschilds helped found Israel. The internal WikiLeaks documents were. now Soros wants to have a big cataclysm and have it fall and then out of that comes world government. This is biblical type revelation stuff. Can I just say a few things? Yes, please go ahead. By the way, I want to bring this from where I am now into what we've been talking about: the smart group. You know I follow this through in the book and I explore this in the book and this is what I conclude: that this apparent division between those that run Israel and George Soros is an absolute fricking myth. They are playing two sides against the center. We have a situation where Soros is funding the left through the open society foundations. He's funding all the woke, He's funding all the massive immigration agenda And on the other side they're funding the right. And it's a simple, simple, classic, sabotein Frankish technique: Control both sides. Both sides would always fund both sides of a war. They admitted that, So in other groups have done that as well. So let's, the British Empire was going to that, So let's pull back here. Let me ask this question One other thing: Yeah, go ahead. In the closing chapters of the book I look at where the sabotein Frankish agenda is going. Most people won't know this, but the second Silicon Valley in the world now is Israel and it's based on a place called beer sheba, which is a military cyber complex vast. And if you go on the internet and criticize Israel, there's a very good chance that the abuse that comes back will have a uniform. We'll be wearing a uniform out of beer sheba Just to have a whole cyber on that. because, because I see through AOC and all these groups and the four and all that also. I understand people can play both sides, but there's also a real anti-Israel, anti-Jew sentiment from the left and on the universities. I mean, those people hate Jews. That's weird, David. Did you hear my question? You see that it's frozen? No, Can't hear it. Let's reconnect with David right now and get his take on that. You got to love Skype, especially since Microsoft bought it three years ago. It's gone nothing but downhill. Some technology used to get better and now it just stays the same where it gets worse: Absolutely annoying. And again, we go into everything. We look at everything here and it's all very interesting and people need to discuss it. We need to talk about it. Oh, do we have David back now? David, can you hear me? All right, What we're going to do is we're going to go to break and we're going to figure this out. We have to get on the telephone. We'll do that because I'm not going to do a 30 minute mess with the Skype ritual. That's just not going to happen today. But again, David is our guest in FullWarscom, NewsWarscom. All I know is the globalists are anti-human and Communist. China has been officially set up to standardize the model of dehumanization and enslavement, And that's in Reuters today. That's where I was going next, And I don't want to live like I live in Communist China, And so I don't care who's running it or what's behind it. I just simply know there is a race by all these countries and all these corporations to build this total surveillance grid that absolutely ends independent human activity and is being used to enslave us and kill us, And it's wrong and it's dangerous. So we're going to work on David Ike's Skype or our Skype, find out what the hell's going on, and we're going to have him finish up what he's trying to get into. They don't want to get into big picture the offworld demons of the Bible, I mean, because the globalists follow these. they worship these. that's why I really wanted David on, Because he's been vindicated. the royal family: what's coming out? It's happening with Prince Andrew. Why is he in trouble when Prince Charles was best buddies with Jimmy Savelle and so much more? Back in just a few minutes with David Ike of DavidIkecom, We'll finish up talking about his book, The Trigger, and then we'll get into so much more straight ahead. Hi, I'm Dan Pilla. I started fighting the IRS over 40 years ago when they tried to seize my mother's house. I sued the IRS in one. I beat the IRS then and I've been beating them ever since. I wrote the book on tax debt settlement and I've helped thousands of people deal with tax problems they thought might never be solved. I can help you too. If you owe taxes you can't pay, don't wait another day. There's no such thing as a hopeless tax case. Call 800-34-NO-TAX or go to my website, danpillacom. that's danpillacom- danpillacom. I'm sure how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives across America. My blood pressure has normalized. my diabetes has totally improved. Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look, and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel. I recommend heart and body extract to everyone. Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy. Order your two-month supply today by calling 866-295-5305,- that's 866-295-5305,, or order online: hbextractcom heart and body extract- 866-295-5305, or hbextractcom. Cyber week is here with the biggest sales of 2019.. No sales in our history can even approach this triple Patriot points: store-wide free shipping, 50-70% off, and when you add auto-ship to it on the order, a lot of these products become lost leaders, meaning I'm losing money on them but bringing in capital so I can fund ourselves into next year. It is critical for folks to take advantage of these sales. If you've ever been on the fence trying some of the products, like the protein bars or turbo force and the fish oil, now is the time. we've got huge specials on DNA Force Plus, our flagship product- with a free bottle of Brain Force Plus with it. It's all available at infowarstorecom during Cyber Week. Now a lot of these sales will continue through Christmas, but some of them have to end because the products are selling out. infowarstorecom funds the info war, Thank you. If you understand why the globalist, why the servants of Satan, hate info wars, it's because we're awake, we're alive, we're passionate and we're not giving up. That's why it's critical for those of us that are aware of the new order's plans to not get down when they attack us and they persecute us and they lie about us. That's what we should expect, because we are hurting these scumbags. The globalists have literally sold their souls to the dark side and they do what they do because they're slaves, because they are eternally driven to try to suppress and dominate and destroy the innocent. It is up to us who are awake- not the sheep and not the wolves, but the sheepdogs- to stand firm and resist these wicked tyrants. They fear the fact that we are awake, They fear the fact that we are alive, They fear the fact that we love God, and that's all we ever have to know is that God is in charge. We had a Skype problem. Who knows, Finish up with what you were getting to. and then I want to get into the fact that we know the globalists are conducting occult rituals, why they're doing it, the pedophilia, why they're coming out with it, why they're admitting it, why they're promoting it and where they want to take us versus what we can do to stop this agenda and what you think the timeline is, David, because you've been a big trailblazer, I want you to tell us what you think is coming next, because they now admit world government, post-human future- really nightmare stuff. that's all over the news. They're just telling us: roll over and die, and I really don't want to do that. So please continue. Yeah, I was just saying before the Skype broke up that there's a chapter in the trigger of when this saboteur and Frank is cult moved in on America. And when you look at 9-11, you can see how this cult was the cement that pulled the whole thing together so that the CIA were involved, the Pentagon was involved, the government was involved, the FBI was involved. because this cult works like that: It infiltrates all these different cultures, all these different agencies and through those connections it works as one unit. And when you look at the ultra Zionist involvement in 9-11- before, during and after- it is absolutely staggering. The Jewish population of the world is 0.2% And part of that community that I'm talking about is a tiny fraction of 0.2%, a tiny fraction of 2% of the American Jewish population. And yet the positions of influence and control across 9-11 were just beyond belief. Now, that is not a statistical chance. That is because there's something to look at, And I expose it all in the trigger. And that's not to say the Jews did 9-11. They didn't. The vast majority of Jewish people have no idea they've been infiltrated, That the Islamic community don't realize they've been infiltrated. Christian Zionism in America doesn't realize it's been infiltrated. But this is how the Roman church doesn't realize at any follower level that it's been infiltrated, But it has by this same through the centuries death cult. And they are, as I was saying, in Israel- And again I say again, it's the sabotee and Frank's cult that actually is the force running Israel. They've created this vast military cyber center at Beersheba And all around that cyber center are research and development facilities put there by the major Silicon Valley companies And they are turning out the technicians and the developers of this smart grid. They have an entire system in Israel whereby they are scanning the schools, They're scanning the universities And then when they come into their conscripted military service, they're looking at those that have this capacity, this aptitude for cyber expertise, And they are putting them into this cyber development center at Beersheba And then they're going off into Silicon Valley companies creating their own startup companies, all to do with the smart grid. And they're representatives of this Mossad network. And that's why, if you look again at Jeffrey Epstein, he was running a Mossad, CIA Sabotee and Frankist with the connection Blackmail operation on the rich and famous. Why? Because once they got you, then you will make decisions that this cult wants making to advance its agenda. I'm glad I brought that up and I definitely want to read the book. It's all fascinating. A mainstream reader absolutely ignored it. They usually attack me, They usually demonize me. They have completely ignored it And that tells you something. Please come back again and get into the whole book. We'll spend two hours on it And I can't wait to read it Now. we've got limited time left here. Paul Watson is hosting the fourth hour and I appreciate you've been gracious with your time, David. Let's start getting into the post-human in game and the off world or non-human element from your research culturally looking at this, getting deep into it. I think basically everyone knows this is an anti-human agenda. It isn't just humans doing this. There's a master plan. It's very old. It's the globalists say they're in contact with inter-dimensionals. Joe Rogan's whole show is about how great it is and how wonderful it all is And how we should interface with these little friendly folks. If you say they're bad, then you're crazy. It doesn't exist in your nuts. But if you love it and it's good, well, we should all just do what these little elves tell us to do. But what's really going on here? Who are the globalists? What do they believe they're doing? Why is the British royalty showing to the occult? Why is Prince Charles angry at his brother for an underage girl, which is bad, But meanwhile he hangs out with Jimmy Savell, We know, does far worse things. Is it, Prince Andrew, Kind of the limited hangout right now? Well, you see, over the last 30 years I've researched so many subjects And as you research them, they connect and they show you a picture. So as you follow these interbreeding bloodlines which came out of the ancient world, particularly out of the Middle East, out of Babylon, out of Sumer, out of Egypt and up into Europe and then worldwide through the colonization of the world, You follow not just a sequence of interbreeding, because once You know, ironically So in one interest, but that's the way it works- Once the world in general started rejecting overrule by royalty, these bloodlines went into the dark suit professions, They went into politics, into banking, into business, into All this network. And when you follow these bloodlines through history, two other things follow: Satanism and pedophilia. Because these entities we take pedophilia, these entities operating outside of human sight, they feed off human energy. You remember in the Matrix movies when the Morpheus character held up the battery and said: the machines have turned us into one of these, An energy source. Well, that's what they do. And the energy that they want in humans in general is what I call low vibrational, emotional energy. They want energy we give off, because we're giving it off all the time in terms of electromagnetic frequency, depending on our state of emotion and our state of mind. They want the energy of depression, the energy of fear, the energy of anxiety, sexual energy in its more extreme form. This is what they want And they structured society so that humans give them that energy, But their nectar, if you like. the energy they want more than anything is the energy of prepubescent children, And that's how they throw it in our face with monster university. Oh, scaring the energies with power is the monster kingdom. You're talking about this 30 years ago, but that's literally what they're doing. And terrorizing and torturing and using up a child is their ambrosia And it's what they do in the Satanic rituals. This is why they, you know, if you go back into history and when they were openly sacrificing people, what were they doing? What was the line? sacrificing young virgins to the stars? Let's stay there. Let's talk about it. If you're trying to quit drinking or doing too many drugs, listen to me. You don't know me and we'll never meet. I had a problem like you once. I drank and used to party a little too much till it got out of control and almost ruined my life, I realized I needed help to fix my problem before it totally destroyed me. If you've tried to fix your drinking and drug problem and you know you can't do it alone, you need to call the National Treatment Advisors. They'll immerse you into a 30-day program to replace your old habits with new habits and totally change your life. And if you have PPO private health insurance, the entire program may be covered. Fix your problem right now, before it gets any worse. Get clean. Call now and learn more. 800-506-6740-800-506-6740.. That's 800-506-6740.. Andy in Florida. Thank you, Andy, Go ahead. Hey, Alex, I love you man, We love you. Before I go ahead and talk about the topic on hand, I got to talk about one of your products. A little bit about me. I'm 245 pounds, I work about 10 to 13 hours a day at UPS And make a long story short. I used to have a problem with Adderall. I do have ADHD, but you know I was taking Adderall for its energy-boosting properties. You know I kind of got a little out of hand And you know I listen to you religiously in my truck every day. So I tried your turbo force and really it's a cliche- this product changed my life, but turbo force really changed my life. It was a day I'd no longer take Adderall And I get by literally 13 hours a day. I work on a half of a packet of your turbo force And if you take a half a packet, that's literally a dollar a day And you save so much money versus, you know, a monster, which is what 499.. And you know, I just had to call and tell you guys how great turbo force is And if anybody's on the fence they really have to try it. We're really proud of turbo force. So, thank you, sir, Commit to buy a lot of your products at m4storecom And then help us spread the word and let's just get busy m4storecom. And it's because I've been taking the eight pack power stack in the morning and at night I've been taking X2 and X3.. I've been taking brain force plus. Quite frankly, I can't take turbo force. It's just too powerful. I have been taking the fish oil and the krill oil when I go to sleep at night And it's totally energized my life. I know our products work, but I'm like everybody else: I use them, then I forget about them. Ladies and gentlemen, these products are amazing. There's huge sales. triple patriot points: free shipping, 57% off. m4storecom Cyber week is here. It's shocking but true. 2019 is almost a memory in the rear view mirror And cyber week is here. The best deals of the year: Store-wide free shipping, triple patriot points for the first time ever, 50 to 70% off. And many of these products are lost. leaders, We are only 330 days out from the 2020 election. It is an incredible time to be alive. It's an incredible time to still be on the air when almost everybody else has been shut down and censored. Yes, we were the first to be censored because we're such a threat to the globalist, But now, thanks to the infrastructure and your support, we're still on air. But bigger attacks are already happening. more are coming. So please spread the word about the broadcast and fund our operation while getting great products at the same time. That's true. 360 win Cyber week is here. Get those Christmas presents for you and your family today at m4storecom. We shall go on to the end. We shall fight in France. We shall fight on the seas and oceans. We shall fight with growing confidence and growing strength in the air. We shall defend our island, whatever the cost may be. We shall fight on the beaches. We shall fight on the landing grounds. We shall fight in the fields and in the streets. We shall fight in the hills. We shall never surrender. Live from Freedom Command Central. it's the Alex Jones show Music. Alright, ladies and gentlemen, David Ike is our guest. David, it's all coming out. Jimmy Savelle in the Dungeons and the Dead Children and the Royal Family and Best Buddies with Prince Charles, But then Prince Andrew- who I'm not defending- is obviously with this underage 17, 16-year-old girl. There's blackmail going on and it's obviously a deep state fight with each other. Now they're threatening to have videos come out of other world leaders. Bill Gates is involved, All these other people. Epstein was running meetings on an alternate world government is what the Wall Street Journal reported 12 years ago And what the Guardian reported. Oh, an alternate world government to save the world from overpopulation. Oprah Winfrey, Bill and Melinda Gates, Ted Turner and others meeting secretly with Jeffrey Epstein at the Albert Einstein Institute. And then now Bill Gates living, staying with him in France, staying with him in New York, staying with him in the Caribbean, trying to cover that up. and then weird secret breeding programs and you know the ranch with the medical facilities. What in the hell is going on with these people And why are there so many dead bodies of children found around the Royals And from your research? why is all this starting to come out? I mean, the deputy pope, the pope's best buddy, just convicted of trafficking over 100 kidnapped little boys, barely made the news. 3,000 priests busted in Pennsylvania, barely made the news. They said, well, it wasn't just homosexual sex or pedophilia, They were doing satanic rituals in the churches. but it barely makes the news. So this is bigger than I thought it was. What in the hell is going on? Sabotein Frankism- You've covered every basis with that. That's what this cult does. That's why Epstein was involved, And Jimmy Savile was someone who had a lot of connections into this as well, And so there's no way that Savile wasn't running a, because he was. one of the things that's not coming out about. Savile Is the scale of the way he was providing children for the rich and famous, just like Epstein was. And you've got to ask this question. You see, I mean let's, let's do a little Laura statistics for a minute. You've got one family in London in a big palace, and you've got on one side of the ocean the most famous pedophile and procurer of children and child trafficker in America, Epstein, and he's a friend of Prince Andrew And then you've got in Britain the most famous pedophile and procurer of children for the rich and famous, the most famous pedophile sex with dead bodies and all that stuff that he was into, Savile. And he was a bosom buddy for decades of Prince Charles And according to Savile's own words, he was introduced into the bosom in a circle of the British royal family in the 1960s. He was just a disc jockey. Why would the royals being interested in him? Well, he says that he was introduced by a guy called old Mount Batten, a big member of the royal family, And I've been saying in my books for years that Mount Batten was pedophile. And there was a book came out this year which was quoting Freedom of Information Act documents from the FBI in which they were also talking about the fact that there were claims that Mount Batten was a pedophile. So a pedophile member of the royal family introduces Savile, this procurer of children for the rich and famous, into the royal family in a sanctum. He's there for decades And, by the way, he was actually used as a mediator between Prince Charles and Lady Diana when their marriage was breaking down. He was acting as a mediator, this disc jockey, pedophile, And so the chances of that being a coincidence, of course, are ludicrous. And we have a situation in Britain where the police have not even acted or questioned this guy, Andrew, on the basis of what was claimed to have happened in a house in London. And by the way, getting back to the whole Sabatian angle, you've got the girlfriend of Epstein. Her dad was the famous British slash Israeli intelligence operative who admittedly ran giant rings for sex operations in pedophilia. That's all even come out mainstream news. So this is just an incredible nest of this. Bob Maxwell is actually in the trigger because the Sabatian Frank is Israeli. Mossad have been manipulating the cyber world all along, And you'll remember this technology called Promise that was brought out by an American company And then the American government, in league with Mossad, put back doors into it. So when it was being bought by all and sundry around the world, they had access to it. But according to Victor Ostrovsky, who was a Mossad agent, wrote a couple of books. We had him on the show. Yeah Well, he was saying that, Bob Maxwell, who was a big newspaper publisher in Britain, the under daily mirror. at one point I interviewed him once with a BBC, one of the most unpleasant pieces of work I've ever met in my life. I needed a shower when I left. Anyway, he is named by Ostrovsky as a Mossad agent who made a fortune selling the promise backdoor software all over the world, And according to him, it was Mossad that killed Maxwell on his boat, the Lady Ghislaine. And so here you have this. What I would strongly suggest is: the Sabatian Frank is Mossad agent Epstein, in league with the daughter of a Mossad agent, Bob Maxwell. It's a very small world once you start putting the pieces together. Yeah, but if you dig into his funeral in Israel, they admitted that he was a super spy. He got the highest honors. That's not even secret about Bob Maxwell. He was buried on the mountain wall, isn't he? Yeah, I mean, that's just a fact. So I mean it's a fact that this was a giant trifecta between British, US and Israeli intelligence. And so again, Bill Gates, Warren Buffett, all of them. We know that Oprah Winfrey is highly compromised and likes girls, And this is just a fact. And so these people know they're being set up. It's like part of the club, It's the initiation. It's not like Bill Gates and all them just didn't know this was going on. They're going there to just to bathe in the waters, And that's just how you get in the club. Yeah, and of course, when you get into this club, if you are among the rich and famous, then you're not only in the club, you're compromised, ongoing And therefore you do what the club tells you to do, Otherwise it's revealed. And so, when this Epstein network started getting close- because you know you've got to take your older hand up to these girls who've been particularly Virginia Roberts, who's been vociferous in standing up and not bowing to it, to the pressure that it was in danger of unraveling in public- Then of course you have to remove. Well, I'm not saying Virginia Roberts is bad And I believe her She's got the pr- I'm saying 16, 17-year-old girls is a limited hangout. We all know that. I mean, my God, it's chopping children's heads off, It's breaking their blood. I'm not saying that. you're saying that Virginia Roberts is- No, no, no, no. I'm not saying you're saying that, I'm saying, as soon as I say, that's nothing, they're only focusing on that because that's a limited hangout to divert off the really horrible Satanism. Well, what they always do when something comes out is they try to make that the holding position. And so what's happened with Prince Andrew is the Queen? stand there. let's talk about this when we come back. They hold their soul to the dark side and they do what they do because they're slaves, because they are eternally driven to try to suppress and dominate and destroy the innocent. It is up to us who are awake- not the sheep and not the wolves, but the sheepdogs- to stand firm and resist these wicked tyrants. They fear the fact that we are awake, They fear the fact that we are alive, They fear the fact that we love God, and that's all we ever have to know is that God is in charge. My phone has been ringing off the hook. Dozens and dozens of people have called me. I've gotten all these text messages. The office phones ringing off the hook. Emails are flooding in. They're saying: can you believe it? 300 Trump ads that were going to run tens of millions of times were pulled by Google, And then it turns out it was done over the summer. Folks, I live this every day. I read the news like nobody else, probably, And they have been hitting hundreds of congressional candidates and members of Congress. They've been going after governors, state reps. It's been a reign of terror. Last week, they wouldn't let Melania Trump images be sent out saying it was hate speech. Ladies and gentlemen, this is beyond censorship. It's total information control. It has to all go through a filter and that's what AI allows is what I call information singularity- Not empowering information, but holding it all in like the one ring of Mordor. Trump must act now or they will steal this election. Twilight is here, The sun is setting on 2019 and we hurdle into the year 2020.. Only 330 days out from this incredibly historic election And it's more important than ever to pray for President Trump and to pray for his provision and his protection- He's completely surrounded- and to pray for him to have discernment and to be bold and to take action and not listen to the advisors that tell him to hold back and that if he goes after the deep state, that they'll remove him from office. They're trying to remove him regardless because they know that God put him in office and that he's going to continue his work and he's going to continue exposing him and bringing them down, But that if he doesn't execute in that office that God's given him, that the globalist could win. Ladies and gentlemen, now is the time, more than ever, to pray for President Trump, and please pray for him for worse, and please pray for all the children being targeted by the globalist. Thank you, and God bless you all. Cyber week is here with the biggest sales of 2019.. No sales in our history can even approach this Triple Patriot points store wide free shipping, 50 to 70 percent off, And when you add auto ship to it on the order, a lot of these products become a lost leaders, meaning I'm losing money on them, but bringing in capital so I can fund ourselves into next year. It is critical for folks to take advantage of these sales. You've ever been on the fence trying some of the products, like the protein bars or turbo force and the fish oil. Now is the time. we've got huge specials on DNA force plus, our flagship product, with a free bottle of brain force plus with it. It's all available at info or store dot com during cyber week. Now a lot of these cells will continue through Christmas, but some of them have to end because the products are selling out. info or store dot com funds the info war, Thank you. you're listening to the Alex Jones show. Well, somebody must be intercepting the emails we send to David- I, because I've been trying to get him up for two years. He remembers like one email and he couldn't come on He was busy. So I definitely you're going to hear David here on the show more and we appreciate him coming on. But there's all sorts of stuff that does go on. We have had our email intercepted block before. that's why I told the crew more, more. We got to pick the phone up and call people because there is a lot of weirdness going on with the AI, with the control systems, with the shadow banning. I remember just six months ago they were on CNN going: Let's see if Jones has WhatsApp on Facebook to privately communicate, They go, he doesn't, but thousands of other nationalists do ban them. and they banned people from using private messengers, like we're Al Qaeda or something. David, I hear he's doing this segment, the next little short segment that Paul Watson takes over from the UK. He's loaded for bear as usual. But, David, I don't mind that we swerved off into your book. I don't know what it was about. It's very interesting. I look forward to reading it and I actually get it. I'm going to read over many of your books: Page turners, thought provoking. That's what's important. But there's no doubt there's a system that's killing us, that's dumbing us down. That's taking us out of humanity, out of love, out of justice, and that is turning us against each other and that says humans are bad, teaching us to hate ourselves, Teaching us to have a post human world, while they wreck the planet itself and override it with genetic engineering and the Kim trailing and which they now admit they're doing, and all the rest of the craziness. So what's going to be admitted? next? You have the CIA director. come on, say, yeah, we're doing exactly what people said we are, but it's secret. What's coming next from these globalist and what's their total in game? I mean, I mean, I think it's just get rid of humans all together is what they're saying publicly now. I mean, how fantastical is that? and then how do we, how do we counter this? Well, they're going to be more and more open. They're going to have to be more and more open because what they're doing is being introduced And, along with trying to sell it in a positive way, as I talked about earlier, Another side story to being open about it is to actually, in effect, say: well, what are you going to do about it? We got the power and I know you can do, and they are going to try to take the power away from people by telling them that they have all the power, And so people go. well, what's the point is? no point. You can't stop them. They're too powerful, They're not. they have to persuade us that they're powerful and then they can be powerful because we believe they are. There's billions and billions of humans. The number of people in full knowledge of what they're doing in terms of this cult is tiny, And this is why they are desperate for people not to understand the nature of reality for a start. That's why it's all been suppressed, because they know how reality works. They know this is not a solid world. I mean, quantum physics knows that. So if you live in a solid world- and that's how we experience it- Why we do can be very easily explained, as I do in the books- And when you feel the world is solid and everything's apart from everything else, then what do you have? limitation, It's not possible. When I say this is happening, that's happening, many times people have said to me: well, that can't be happening, It's not possible. No, it's not possible if the world's solid, but it's not. They know that actually, the base form of this reality is a wave form, information fields, think Wi-Fi. So you've got a Wi-Fi field and it's just a radiation field of information. But the computer simply decodes that field into a completely different reality on the screen And everywhere apart from on the screen, the Internet or what you see is nothing like what you're looking at. Only on the screen does it look like that. And in the same way we are decoding wave form information fields, fluid wave form information fields, think Wi-Fi- again into this reality. And there's no doubt they're coming in to jam the transmissions. we're getting from God, the universe, the information, to jam it with artificiality. And you read their white papers. they admit they're trying to stop something that humans are going to do. They're trying to bring in the false new age to make us think that they're saving us when they're really killing us because there is something really new coming. This is the whole point. I talked earlier about the postage stamp, consensus and all that, what all this perceptual programming does, especially programming self identity. This is why they're getting this self identity politics, where people self identity is getting smaller and smaller and smaller And the letters describing it get longer and longer and longer. It's because they want us to have a myopic view of selfish island under yourself, totally pissed off, hating everyone around you. a satanic world view, But also a myopic self identity. so we self identify the eye with our labels- your race, your religion. It's false. it's false labeling, false programming, so that it's a jamming what the real universe is. putting up fake icons that they're teaching us through political correctness is literally to sabotage reality and not let us even to code third dimensional transmissions. But yeah, so what they're doing is they're basically putting us in a bubble, a perceptual bubble, And that's the basis of telling someone they're a victim. so you wanted to get it. trans, transhumanism and the transgender. here it is: transgender man who gave birth, loses battle to be registered as a father. That's upside down world saying you know, pig not given the right to say he can fly to the moon and back Britain's first transgender couple to allow their five year old child to begin transitioning- a total cult again doing this to their daughter. Here's another one favorite drag queen story time: author likes pedophile Instagram post talking about hashtag: young boy lover hashtag, pedophilia hashtag. I mean, it's all right here. scroll through that for folks with all of this open Satanism and the coming out and these people all dress like demons and drag queen story time, and women bringing their children to offer them up to men, Many of them convicted pedophiles. what in the hell is going on there, David? will this externalization of this? Well, I would like to comment on that because it's very important in terms of some of the subject of public. but I could just finish this one point. Oh, yes, you just said: make sure I bring that up and go ahead. Sure, and I want to talk about it. I'll be very brief. So we've been putting this perceptual bubble and all the information we get, which forms our perceptions of self and the world, is within this bubble. But actually, if we open our minds, particularly open our hearts, we can access levels of expanded awareness That gives you a vast greater fix on the world and reality than ever. that does. And what they want to do with this smart grid, this connecting the human brain to artificial intelligence, is to stop us expanding our consciousness into greater levels of awareness, understanding, and that's admitted the White House science are said we put floor on the water to lower your IQ, to make you more manageable. They admit they're doing it. Talk about criminal activity, Exactly, And so that's that. that's what it's all about. Anyway, in terms of the transgender thing, this, this, this relates to the whole smart grid technological agenda. They want, in the end, to change the nature of the human body so it becomes a synthetic, a synthetic human body. They're already working on it, sometimes in the open, overwhelmingly in in the secret, bases and projects. This synthetic human will not have gender and will not be able to procreate, which takes us into brave new world and the world hatchery method of technological produce of children, which is what Aldous actually was talking about in the world hatcheries. And so what they are doing is preparing people to be young as well, because they're with the adults for the no gender world. So what? this is the process: confuse gender, confuse gender, confuse gender, confuse gender, fuse gender, fuse gender, no gender, human. And because they are looking at a technological procreation instead of a human procreation, they don't need men and women anymore because they don't need to procreate, because they're that's going to be done another way. And so what is happening with this transgender indoctrination which is so disgusting? It's not because, again, it's not about protecting transgender people from from discrimination. It's about forcing this agenda and attacking the name man and woman and attacking the very biological jump point of the third dimension. Well, in the same way that the school system, which has been completely taken over for this agenda, has been indoctrinating children into the climate cult agenda to terrify them at, the world's going to win, So they are being at the same time indoctrinated into- and boy are they back in two minutes with the final second day of the night. And then we've got all Joseph Watson. The last few days I've been online looking for the speech, actually read it in a book about Winston Churchill many years ago, and I've found a few places where it's mentioned. But if you can find it, please send it to showtipstemforewordscom. And he talked about, in the darkest hours at the beginning of World War two, the fact that there have been times in history where people had a chance to stand up and fight early on and we're sure, to victory. Then there was a second point in history where folks have to fight even though the chances of winning are pretty steep. There's a third time when you know you're going to lose, but you have to fight because being enslaved and being slowly killed is much, much worse. That's a paraphrase. But, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the position now of being able to win this easily if we find our spirit, find our focus and don't give up and take action. But if we don't stand up and get involved, we're going to skip number two and go right to number three. That's a fact. They fear Info Wars because we are alive. It's time for the world to awaken and take back our future. Cyber week is here with the biggest sales of two thousand and nineteen amazing products that will change your life, Guaranteed. not only will the products make you healthier, happier, more focused, more energized, They will fund the Info Wars operation into the critical year of twenty twenty. ladies and gentlemen, A lot of people notice I've lost weight, I have more focus, There's more of a sparkle in my eye and it's because I've been taking the eight pack power stack in the morning and at night. I've been taking X two and X three. I've been taking brain force plus. Quite frankly, I can't take turbo force, It's just too powerful. I have been taking the fish oil and the krill oil when I go to sleep at night and it's totally energized my life. I know our products work, but I'm like everybody else. I use them, then I forget about them. Ladies and gentlemen, these products are amazing. There's huge sales. triple patriot points, free shipping. fifty seventy percent off in four store dot com. Cyber week is here. You're listening to the Alex Jones show, Our final segment with David Ike, Paul Watson taking over. Look at this headline- wax my balls. trans activists complains that gynecologist won't see her files. more lawsuits Continuing. transgendered men again give birth- just totally made up. and then now these families Where they pressure their kids to do it. It's, it's. it's it's not turning them into another sex. it's giving them chemicals that end up killing them early. It's. it's criminal activity in my view. and it came out of the Tabistock Institute powerful report The Gregory's put out- and I get mad at the crew because they're great people, but they like do these incredible reports and it's like no promotion. It's not brought to me Not a big deal is it made about it. We don't even get the people that we have that have Twitter accounts to put it out. It's like this: Yeah, So if you don't take our stuff serious and get it out at, banned on video, Nobody is because we got first rate reporters and stuff breaking stuff that is earth shattering Because, as David Ike just said, he's dead on the climate change system is about teaching humans to hate themselves and about turning everything over to a world government system. And the transgenderism is of getting them ready for brain chips and everything else. because if you'll accept a man's a woman and a woman's a dog or any of this other stuff, or people put Drano in their eyes because they want to be transabled and then we got to pay for their tax money to take care of them, then we'll put up with cyborgs. Closing comments on that. David Ike, and I appreciate you joining us today. Well, what have you just described? you just described George Orwell's two plus two equals five. What they're telling us is to believe that two plus two equals five, and in 1984, and there were punishments for not accepting that, even if you thought it actually equal four. And so what we have now are the punishments. You've got parents who are terrified of social services knocking on their door If they don't go along with the tyranny now school, which is actually a tyranny, which is what they've become imposing these things upon children. But if we're going to stop this, then we need to grow a pair and we need to grow a backbone and we need to not accept that two and two equals anything but four. So when people say these things, that you've just described, these ludicrous things, and you get attacked for saying, actually, that man and a woman is the biology of humans And that's not to say that people can't be transgender. good luck to them. But that's not what this is about. This is not about protecting transgender people. It's about indoctrinating kids to become confused about their gender for a big political reason. If this was about protecting transgender people, then when those transgender people- and I've been reading books about this- come out who've been through the surgery, who've been through the transition, and say it was a big mistake. I wish I hadn't bowed to the pressure to do it because it's destroyed my life- The transgender activists, if it was about transgender people, would say hey, hey, you know if you're thinking about it, you know you need to listen to these people because they're you know they're going to be problems. no, no, what happens to those people when they come out and say I made a mistake is they are abused and vilified and demonized because it's not about transgender, it's about an agenda. This is why, when Jewish people come out and criticize Israel, they get more abuse from the Israeli networks than non-Jewish people. So it's not about protecting Jewish people. it's about protecting an agenda which has multiple faces, and what we need to do is refuse to accept that two and two equal anything but four. So when they come out with this stuff- and we need to keep, we're supposed to keep our heads down and nod. we just just say it's a load of fricking rubbish. What are you talking about? it's insane. Exactly, men can't have babies, women aren't men, and we're not going to live in your damn crazy hellbop cult on PCP. That's what this is. it's non-human, it's evil. let's reject it and that is what is empowering. David Ike, please come back very, very soon, because two hours was not enough. I've got so many other subjects I wanted to cover with you, so thank you so much for the time and have a great Christmas coming up and a great new year. hopefully you'll come back even before this year's over, but regardless in January, as we can host together in 2020.. Thank you so much, David Ikecom. You want to break some globalist ribs. you want to crush some skulls politically, you want to drive ice picks through their eyeballs spiritually. there's nowhere you can spend money. there's nowhere you can place your bet in a fight where it's gonna have more power per dollar, Your bang for your buck. fear gets you great products at great prices that literally fund the system where the spirit of resistance lives, to drive it home to the enemy. and so it's very simple: if you don't want to be slaves and you want to see the fight taken to the enemy, which God wants to see, you see, we have to make the effort. 110%. God will finish the move. and I know I need to stay in the fight, in the attack, attack, attack. I want to attack, I want to go after the globalists. and just believe me, ladies and gentlemen, that if you want somebody to commit to you and your family to fight for all of our futures together, you've got to guarantee you keep me in the game. I'm going to bust my ass with everything I got for us, for myself and my family, for your family, because we're in this together. M4storecom. Paul Joseph Watson is about to take over from London, England. we're getting him hooked up via the satellite links and Skype and everything. right now he's gonna be covering Kamala Harris, dropping out all the money Bloomberg spending. where all this craziness is going? the latest giant Islamic attacks the government covering up? where are the other seven convicted terrorists they released with him. I mean, this is all coming up this hour. please don't forget. if you spend your money with Amazon and the big box stores, you're literally giving it to places like Dick's Sporting Goods and Walmart that are anti-gun now, that are pro-transgenderism, like Target, Amazon, all the things they're doing. get your products at M4storecom. you're gonna get the best supplements. you're gonna get great Liberty based t-shirts. you're gonna get great air filtration, great water filtration, the lowest prices you're gonna find. we have the best units: Alexa Pure, Pro Breeze and water filters, the Pro Pure. it's all excellent. and we've got store-wide free shipping- still triple Patriot points for the first time ever and massive sales like DNA Force Plus with a free bottle of Rain Force Plus with it, free shipping, 20% off, with a free bottle. that's got it in, because we're not getting more of it in until February's when it's gonna get here and it current sales rates will be sold out of DNA Force well before Christmas, but I still want you to have it. I want you to get it. I want you to see how amazing it is. Survival Shield X3: you can get a bottle of it, 50% off, and then get a free bottle of Rain Force Plus as well, I want you to experience these products. M4storecom, do your Christmas shopping with us during Cyber Week. don't battle the traffic, don't, you know? battle the malls and support an operation that's got our shipping department right here, our phone answering system right here in Texas, the t-shirts printed made here, everything. an American company that's pro-liberty, that supports your freedom into the future. a total 360 win. get the krill oil. I mean, it's been sold out for three months. it's back in. it's amazing. M4storecom. or triple 825-33139, to call triple 825-33139. and we need to have these sales. be really big this year to fund ourselves into the next year. you've seen the attacks and we've got 15 new bumper sticker designs in. every order is getting a whole bunch of bumper stickers in it. or spend 9.95, shipping included and get 40 bumper stickers at cost in full-war sticker bomb sale and get those up around town and see how the leftist and globalists like that exercise free speech in their face, not just in America but worldwide. and now taking over from the UK is Paul Joseph Watson of SummitNews. bookmark that excellent site as well. thanks, Alex. yeah, later on in the show we're going to get into the latest fallout from the London Bridge attack, which of course occurred on Friday and the family of one of the unfortunate victims basically saying that people shouldn't be able to have a debate about the early release of terrorists, despite the fact that the early release of the terrorists in this situation was what led to their son's death. absolutely incredible double thing taking place on that. first, I'm going to get into what broke about an hour ago, which, of course, Kamala Harris dropping out of the presidential race, following other creatures of the establishment and completely failing to resonate with American voters, and then wondering why. of course, back a few weeks ago now, she said that it was Americans reluctance to elect a woman of color. she cited that as a reason for her struggles in the campaign but, as you can see from an article up on SummitNews, that was certainly not the primary reason why her campaign completely crated and plummeted over the last few months. headline Kamala Harris's decline began when Tulsi Gavar blasted her in July debate. of course, this was the famous confrontation back on July 31st when Kamala Harris basically destroyed her on a hypocrisy of locking up 1500 people in California for marijuana use and then laughing about it herself when she was asked if she had ever personally smoked marijuana. and in fact there's a predicted chart which is in this article, which shows that Kamala Harris's presidential odds began to plummet immediately after Tulsi Gavar destroyed her in a July Democratic presidential debate. and if you look at that chart, which is a bit lower in the article there, you will see that right as that confrontation took place, back on July 31st, her presidential aspirations absolutely plummeted because again the American public got to see Kamala Harris for exactly who she was and established total nose dive. yeah, completely crated. of course she blamed in a turmoil with her campaign. she blamed the fact that she was struggling to raise money, but again, that all occurred in the months after that confrontation. so, whereas Gavar herself has struggled in the polls, if she had one good impact during this presidential campaign, it was the complete destruction of the hopes of Kamala Harris. so now you've got people all over Twitter complaining bitterly on the left that now the debate stage- and this is a tweet from Lauren Ducker, again a big leftist on Twitter. she said: Kamala Harris officially ended her campaign today, which means that all of the candidates who currently qualify for the December Democratic debate are white. God forbid. Sanders, Warren, Biden, Booty, George Klobuchar and Steyer are all white and that, apparently, if you're a racist is a big problem, and of course only racist would have a problem with people appearing on a stage because they have the right skin color or not. so that is now the big narrative: that because Kamala Harris has dropped out, there are no people of color on the stage. of course Andrew Yang is not going to qualify for the debate, so he's out. as it looks at the moment. we've also got, of course, Hillary Clinton, yet again still refusing to rule out whether she's going to run for president. she's already missed the filing deadline for the New Hampshire primary. but she was asked yet again- and this must be the fifth time she was asked publicly on a show or on a stage in the past two months- whether she would run for presidential election for a third time running and fail for a third time running, no doubt. during an appearance on Britain's Graeme Norton show, Clinton was asked again about her presidential aspirations. she cited a US women's soccer star in a book who retired on the tagline forget me. Hillary said. the intention of the words was to quote: make a way for new people and get off the stage. she was then asked: are you saying forget me now? Hillary responded not, yet she was pressed further about whether she was aware of the presidential rumor mill and had been privileged with questions about running, again she said: right now I'm not, you know, planning that. I'd have to make up my mind really quickly because it's moving very fast. so when asked again a direct question whether she's going to run, she refused to answer. of course, she appeared on PBS news hour back in October saying, quote: obviously I can beat him again- referring to Donald Trump, despite the fact that she didn't be in the first time round. she also found the flames of speculation when she tweeted at Trump: don't tempt me. and, of course, long time Clinton advisor Dick Morris insisted that Hillary will become the presidential Democratic nominee because, quote, she believed she was put on earth to be president. this is the level of arrogance we're dealing with, where she's already missed the deadline for New Hampshire and she still refuses to rule it out because she thinks she has the divine right to be your president. Morris said: make no mistakes, she wants it. she's still planning on it. she'll do everything she can to achieve it. so that's what is going on there and in fact I think Tulsi Gabbard tweeted about this in the past few moments, of course, off the back of that confrontation with Harris in the debate, she said sending my best wishes to Kamala Harris, her family and supporters who have campaigned so hard. while we disagree on some issues, we agree on others and I respect us and see a decision to serve the American people. many people are taking that as a little bit tongue in cheek and the is that, in fact, Tulsi Gabbard celebrating the departure of Kamala Harris from the race, so that's why he's taking place there. coming up in the next segment, as I mentioned, we're going to talk about the London Bridge attack, because the Prime Minister of Britain and the expected next Prime Minister- we have a national election next week- is under fire basically for saying that terrorists who plan mass murder shouldn't be released from prison early. because that's exactly what happened. that's exactly what led to the tragic death, the stabbing deaths of two people in London on Friday, and now we have the parents of one of the victims slamming Boris Johnson for daring to suggest that terrorists should be locked up for more than eight years if indeed they are planning mass murder. we're going to get into that in the psychological evaluations to why people on the left, even when their own daughters and sons are dying will take this stance. don't go. I'm Dan Pilla. I started fighting the IRS over 40 years ago when they tried to seize my mother's house. I sued the IRS in one. I beat the IRS then and I've been beating them ever since. I wrote the book on tax debt settlement and I've helped thousands of people deal with tax problems they thought might never be solved. I can help you too. if you owe taxes you can't pay, don't wait another day. there's no such thing as a hopeless tax case. call 834, no tax or go to my website, Dan Pilla dot com. that's Dan Pilla dot com. Dan Pilla dot com. the United States of Empire is a book that claims the United States is the empire of the world. George Washington had warned us against foreign wars. the United States of Empire shows that World Wars one and two left England broken its former colony. the US had to save the empire. was there ever a vote? who do we fight for? the deep state began with World War one. the United States of Empire by James Dunn, available at Amazon books. we can all agree these are troubled times, right? so do you know who's on your wireless network, whether it's a big company selling your data or a foreign hacker. if you're not protected, everybody sees your information. that's why you need flash routers, a custom Wi-Fi router created for privacy. flash routers uses a virtual private network, or VPN, to protect your online activity from hackers, trackers and large corporations, and not just one, but all your devices with one out of the box setup plus. flash routers also enhances your wireless network performance and unlocks powerful router management tools to let you take total control of your network. call or click flash routers today at one eight, six, six, five oh nine five, eight, one, seven, or FLA SHR O U T E R S dot com. that's one eight, six, six, five oh nine, five, eight, one, seven or flash routers dot com. protect your wireless home network today with flash routers. the last few days I've been online looking for the speech, actually read it in a book about Winston Churchill many years ago and I've found a few places where it's mentioned. but if you can find it, please send it to show tips them for worse dot com. and he talked about the darkest hours at the beginning of World War two, the fact that there have been times in history where people had a chance to stand up and fight early on and we're sure to victory. and there was a second point in history where folks have to fight even though the chances of winning are pretty steep. there's a third time when you know you're going to lose but you have to fight because being enslaved and being slowly killed is much, much worse. that's a paraphrase. but, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the position now of being able to win this easily if we find our spirit, find our focus and don't give up and take action. but if we don't stand up and get involved, we're going to skip number two and go right to number three. that's a fact. they fear info wars because we are alive. it's time for the world to awaken and take back our future. Andy in Florida. thank you, Andy, go ahead. hey, Alex, I love you, man, we love you. before I go ahead and talk about the topic on hand, I got to talk about one of your product. a little bit about me. I'm two hundred forty five pounds. I work about ten to thirteen hours a day at UPS and make a long story short. I used to have a problem with Adderall. I do have ADHD, but you know I was taking Adderall for its energy boosting properties. you know I kind of got a little out of hand and you know I listen to you religiously in my truck every day. so I tried your turbo force and really it's a cliche- this product changed my life. but turbo force really changed my life and it was a day. I no longer take Adderall and I get by literally the thirteen hours a day. I work on a half of a packet of your turbo force and if you take a half a packet that's literally a dollar a day and you save so much money versus, you know, a monster which is what four ninety nine, and you know I just had to call and tell you guys how great turbo force is and if anybody's on the fence they really have to try it. we're really proud of turbo force. so thank you, sir, commit to buy a lot of your products in four store dot com. then help us spread the word. let's just get busy. in four store dot com. you're listening to the Alex Jones show. you're listening to summit dot news with Paul Joseph Watson. I've pulled up a historical description of Aztec child sacrifice because I think it ties into what we're seeing in contemporary times, especially with, in some cases, how even the parents of victims of terrorist attacks react after the attacks says: Aztec child sacrifice. child sacrifice as part of Aztec human sacrifice and was performed on a regular basis. children were sacrificed at the Aztec God slaloc, the rain god. remnants of forty two children sacrificed to this God have been found in the great pyramid and this really ties into what's going on today. at one time, people sacrifice their children to the rain god. we have to ask the question now: are people sacrificing their children to the gods of political correctness? because we had a major terror attack in London on Friday: two people dead. it would have been many more if citizens hadn't of intervened and attacked this terrorist until the police could arrive to shoot him dead. by the way, people were very upset about the fact that he was shot dead by police. we had a story up on summit dot news about that on Friday. but of course they had to grab fire extinguishers. they had to grab, I think, whale tusks to fend off this terrorist. they see one of the citizens disarmed, disarmed him of his knife. of course no legal right to firearms in Great Britain. so they had to grab whatever weapons they could to take down the bad guy. and in the aftermath of this attack it emerged that the terrorist in question had been sentenced to sixteen years in prison- just sixteen years in prison- for literally plotting to bomb the London stock exchange and carry out mass murder. he was released after just after serving just eight years of that prison sentence, and that was the primary reason why he went on to carry out that attack. and now you see him in a video, by the way, from 2008, complaining about Islamophobia and how people calling Muslims terrorists is very offensive and politically incorrect. so the guy who was complaining about Muslims being called terrorists- saying that was Islamophobic- went on to become a Muslim terrorist eleven years later, killing two people. the headline here out of Sky News, London Bridge terror attack victim Jack Merritt's father launches veiled attack on Boris Johnson. and, by the way, Jack Merritt, out of Cambridge University, had written a paper and was studying on the basis of how it was really wrong and really harsh on prisoners to keep them in prison for an elongated length of time. he was actually campaigning to reduce prison sentences and his death was precisely because the terrorist in question had his prison sentence reduced. now, in the aftermath of this, we've had a big public debate in the UK about whether prison sentences for terrorists are too short, and why are terrorists being released too early? in fact, they arrested another terrorist after this attack who had also been released very early, despite being involved in planning terrorist acts. they immediately arrested him because they feared he was planning a new attack. so that is a completely legitimate debate to have. and yet now we have this. the father of a man killed in last week's London Bridge terror attack has launched a veiled attack on Boris Johnson for using the incident to call for tougher criminal sentencing. Dave Merritt, father of 25 year old Jack, said his son would be livid at his death and his life being used to perpetuate an agenda of hate that he gave his everything fighting against. now it's okay to have respect for the victims of terrorist attacks and yet then want to engage in a debate about how we stop future terrorist attacks that not be described as being offensive to the victims if it's coming out of a genuine place. But he said, don't use my son's death and his and his colleagues photos to promote your vile propaganda. Jack stood against everything you stand for: hatred, division, ignorance. So Boris Johnson came out again on the eve of an election in the United Kingdom and pledged after the terror attack to end the early release of prisoners convicted of terrorist or extremist offences. after it emerged, Khan was a convicted terrorist wearing an electronic tag after being released halfway through a 16 year prison sentence for plotting to bomb the London Stock Exchange. they see the other victim in the attack, who was also present at this conference, which again was about reducing sentences for dangerous prisoners. that's where the attack started. that's where those two victims were unfortunately killed, before he then ran out onto the bridge and was taken down by the brave citizens. So we have this whole debate now, with the left saying: how dare you want to stop terrorists carrying out terrorist attacks? how dare you want to keep dangerous terrorists in prison who've literally plotted mass murder, literally plotted to bomb the London Stock Exchange? And the reason I read out that Aztec baby sacrifice thing was because in a modern parlance, we see this again and again, with people literally willing to sacrifice their children for the gods of political correctness and campaign against hardcore legal measures that would have prevented, in many cases, their sons and daughters from dying. We have this headline from back in 2016: family of EU officials teenage daughter who was raped and killed by Afghan migrant. as for well wishes to donate money to refugee charity as teenage killer is revealed. This was the family of a teenage daughter who was allegedly raped and murdered by an Afghan migrant in Germany. Again, he literally strangled her to death and drowned her in a river and the parents came out and said: donate money to migrant causes. medical student, Maria Landenberger, who had also taken time out to help asylum seekers as a volunteer. What does that remind you of? again, I did an entire video about this where, in many cases, the unfortunate victim to rapes and killed by migrants, by refugees, who turn out to be actual terrorists in some cases- campaigned for refugee charities. She was found dead in a river in the southwestern German University University City of Freiburg in October. this was 2016.. The first picture since the merger of Hussain K. He was the 17 year old Afghan asylum seeker who was arrested on suspicion of the rape and murder. As the 19 year old students family tries to come to terms with their loss, they have asked for donations to be made to an organization that aids refugees. So they literally came out and asked. I think even at the funeral itself, they came out and asked for donations to refugee charities, having had their daughter killed by a one-time refugee. and that's not the only example of this, Of course. we had mass molestation of women in Cologne on New Year's Eve, 2015.. How did feminists react to 2,000 women being sexually abused, in some cases outright raped, by predominantly migrant men from North Africa and the Middle East back on New Year's Eve, 2015.. Of course, we all remember the horrific videos of that, the absolute chaos. They reacted by apologizing for xenophobia. This is an info warscom headline: Cologne: women apologized for xenophobia by giving migrants roses following mass molestation. Women in Cologne responded to the mass molestation by predominantly Muslim migrants that occurred on New Year's Eve by visiting the city's largest refugee center and handing out roses as a gesture against xenophobia. What did we see last week in Paris? We saw a big feminist march against sexual assault committed by men. About three or four protesters turned up with signs pointing out that the majority of sexual abuse in Paris is being carried out by migrant men, by asylum seekers. What happened to those women? They were hounded, they were physically attacked, they were driven out of the protest. We'll be back with more of this. on the other side, summitnews: Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away. Don't go away.It's Tuesday, October 12th 2021, and we have massive COVID-19 tyranny news for you here today, Much of it exclusive. Let's just start with the first guest coming up in T minus 33 minutes: Dr Richard Bartlett, advisor to Rick Perry, advisor to Governor Abbott, a very respective and managing doctor emergency room in Texas, and they'll pioneer the bedestinine treatments and other things that have made their way now into accepted scientific knowledge. This is a very incredible individual Contacted me this morning and sent me a photo and information and confirmed that indeed, at a hospital group, a major hospital group in Texas, when a- quote new COVID patient comes in or someone's being transferred inside the hospital to different room, a plastic bag is placed over their head and then tightened around their neck. People become very, very distressed at this and if they resist well, they get restrained. I'm not joking. but to make things worse, the bags they use are hospital equipment bags that say: do not place over someone's head. Now, if you're asking why they do this, they claim the masks don't work, which we all know already, And so this is going to protect people from the COVID. But really it is a Milgram experiment or Stanford Research experiment operation. If you don't know what the Milgram experiment was on. the Stanford Research prison experiment was: both of them were to see if people would basically torture and actually kill people finally if they were ordered to do so. And in both studies one was delivering shocks, the other was torturing people in a prison. They found that an authority figure told moral people with no criminal record- churchgoers you name. it told them to finally kill somebody they would or torture them. So that's what this is. This is all a giant Milgram experiment of keep people away from their family members. don't don't want people going to nursing homes or hospitals, keep families out while mama has a baby and then suddenly 90% of the births are cesarean and Austin at major hospitals. It's all about tyranny. It's all about control. It's about corporations in control of medicine now around the world repeating what happened in the Soviet Union and what happened in Nazi Germany. So Dr Bartlett's going to be coming on naming the hospital, naming names. He just sent me minutes ago actual copies of the transcript and messages with the hospital admitting all of this with a hospital chain. So that's coming up with a whistleblower who witnessed all this ongoing and is concerned about it, coming up at the bottom of the hour now in 30 minutes Separately. even mainline news now is admitting that the quote, the facts are in and the COVID mystery injections, the Franken shots, the death shots as Dr Zelinko calls them, are making things worse and are making people sick and are killing people in all over the world. John Hopkins own data has been again put to that graph we showed last week. all over the world two to one hospital izations, illnesses and death. if you really crunch the numbers And when you pull out the fact that they don't count somebody as dying who's been vaccinated, if they die in the first 14 days after being injected with the experimental Franken shot, you add those numbers and it is just massively more probable that you're going to get sick or die from these injections. And that's exactly what the real experts like Dr Yidan and Dr Wudard and so many others warned would indeed happen once this all basically transpired. So there's no doubt it's depopulation. Are we surprised? it's Bill Gates running along with Klaus Schwab who say they want to depopulate us. It's just an incredible time to be alive. So that's all coming up with some other COVID news I haven't hit yet. concerning the military, That's right. more members of the US military have died in the month of September. That's the latest numbers. they have that in all the months of COVID combined and they're trying to spin that and we'll tell you how. they're trying to spin it straight ahead. But this is depopulation, This is human sacrifice brought back on the mass scale. Humanities doing it again. The same evil force is possessing us yet again: Infowarscom Tomorrow's news today. We'll be right back. Stay with us. I want to be very clear. The fact that Infowars is having trouble funding itself is not the fault of our amazing listeners and supporters. It is the fault of the globalists. When we can get enough of our great supplements for the products in, we're able to sell enough of it to stay on air and, quite frankly, even expand in the face of the new world order. But because of the supply chain breakdowns that were very easy to predict for the global lockdowns who are designed to do that, we have had real problems getting our best selling products in. Some of them take up to 10 months to get in. We've had to discontinue some of our products because we just can't get the ingredients anymore. It's pretty scary stuff. So please take advantage of sales. we're running for one week only. There's only one week left from October 11th for seven days. Kicks off October 11th on things like DNA Force Plus at 40% off, Winter Sun at 50% off, Ultra 12 at 50% off and more At infowarsstorecom. One week left. Check out these incredible deals. Infowars. tomorrow's news today. This is the Alex Jones show live on this Tuesday, October 12th 2021.. Owen Schreuer sitting in studio for Alex. He is coming up just shortly with more updates on what he just mentioned in the first segment. And then we have a loaded guest list today: Dr Richard Bartlett, with some breaking, exclusive news for this audience coming up shortly. And then a story that just shows you how society is breaking down into complete illogic and disregard for common sense and rationality, where a family was forced to put plastic bags over their heads to be in the hospital. I mean, this is, this is beyond clown world at this point. But I mean that's about as clown world as you can be. Hey, put this plastic bag over your head. Okay, dude, Do I even have to explain how insane that is? So we'll have that family on with us as well, explaining what it's like to live in the clown world at a hospital. Hey, put this plastic bag over your head. Well, how can I breathe, breathing? Who said anything about breathing. And then we have a nurse who is standing against the vaccine mandates, who has walked out of her job, joining us in the third hour. And then I've got videos of other nurses and pilots. And then you have social media influencers who are told: Hey, promote the vaccine and take the vaccine. Now they have Bell's palsy. Here's the situation that I have. Imagine the craziest Super Bowl ever. Just just crazy game, back and forth action. And then you have the three hour post game show. Okay, that's info wars every day. now, Every day is the craziest Super Bowl of all time. And then every transmission here is trying to recap all the craziness from from the last game, except it's every day now. So that's what's coming up today on the Alex Jones show with myself and others. But first let's go back to Alex Jones with more time. Thank you everyone for joining us today for this very important transmission. I want to encourage all of you to realize that the real power you have is your word of mouth and your will to take action. So, however you're listening or watching this broadcast, it is essential that you share it now via text message, via email, via word of mouth, via Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, It doesn't matter. via gab, via telegram, telegraph, It doesn't matter. just take action now. The propaganda would not be necessary if the situation was hopeless. If the situation was hopeless, they would not be pushing us and trying to censor us and trying to brainwash us as the same goes. Okay, let me lay out the incredible news that's coming up today. First off, the Great Reset is now out of the open. CNN has now come out with this incredibly Orwellian term and has said: get used to never having enough food on the shelves, get used to not being able to go on vacations, get used to not being able to have gasoline for a car, get used to all of this because of COVID. It broke the world, And so now you're going to live in austerity and we're going to control you, But don't worry, you're going to have a universal basic income. They are calling it before time. They're not calling it in times, They're calling it before time. This is not a joke, This is not a game, This is real. ladies and gentlemen, This is the world that they have created. CNN uses creepy, dystopian before times rhetoric to justify empty shelves. What is that? Well, it's like Claude Schwab 20 months ago, with the kickoff of this takeover, saying you will own nothing, you will have nothing and you will be happy. And that's what they've done. Of course they're going to have private jets and giant palatial mountaintop castles, They're going to have private islands, They're going to have everything, but you're not going to have air conditioning or a car. In fact, Paul Watson has just done a report on the fact that major European governments inside the EU and the British government are coming out and now saying you're not going to be able to charge your electric car, You're not going to be able to have a gas car. This is total control. That's why they say in Australia: don't look at the sunset, Don't talk to your neighbors. They say the same thing in Canada. We've got to keep the lockdowns going because people might meet in groups and challenge our narratives. This is worldwide martial law. So later in the broadcast I'll get more into the before times. but this is the post industrial world. Remember Klaus Wab also last year ran TV ads on Twitter saying they also ran them in the UK on national television saying: isn't it great that the lockdowns made the animals come back out and have fun? Isn't it great that we use less carbon? We need carbon lockdowns on a routine basis And their foot soldiers, the extinction rebellion, go and block blue collar workers driving to work or getting on trains, And they're all basically a bunch of rich trust fund kids. This is the elite waging war on the general public that they see as an enemy, that are using their resources and then claiming that they are the avant garde and they are the underdog and they are fighting the establishment when they are the establishment. That is the very nature of this system: Total, absolute hypocrisy. COVID-19 is the cover, the smoke screen for an agenda 21,, agenda 2030. And I know, as a hardcore audience, you understand that. That's why it's key that you share that information. What hope do we have of ever turning this around and stopping the globalist If our governors and our legislatures and the good members of the House and Senate we have and the good corporate leaders we have and the good religious leaders we have? they're there And all it takes is a few leaders With the truth, people will follow. But how are we going to oppose globalism when Ted Turner and Prince Philip and Prince Charles and the Queen of England and George Soros and all of these people, Bill Gates, are saying we are launching this to take over. We are using this to take over. We are using this to set up a worldwide corporate tyranny where you can't even have a job or basically go on vacation, where you're non-essential and where you don't even get meat and where you don't even get medicine or healthcare. This is a nightmare system and all these pathetic people that call themselves liberal are jockeying to have power positions in this rationed, dystopic carbon credit system. that isn't coming, ladies and gentlemen. it's now here. We must identify that we are in a war. We must identify that it's coming after our basic liberties. We must identify that submitting to it will literally sign us on to our own destruction and sign our children on to a fate worse than death. because at the core of this, these globalists are bad scientists. And you look at what they're doing to the relationship between men and women, If you look at how Target and Legos and the state of California are all saying we're going to have genderless toys, no boys, no girls. that's a total cult attacking what it is to be human itself, in the very bedrock of humanity, men and women together. You'd watch Mary with children 35 years ago and the dads of moron and the sons of an idiot. nobody cares. the women are all whores. That was all sold as an idea on purpose so we would accept that image and not respect each other, so we could be isolated and made alone, so we could be fed on by this predatory system. When you see the internal documents coming out years ago about Facebook trying to make their users depressed, trying to make them only communicate with false avatars that aren't real people but are AI personalities, that's what they've done to our children. They've plugged us into the television, now the iPhones, and now they're frying us with 5G. They're literally killing us like they're an outside alien force and whatever they are, they're definitely anti-human. Whatever this force is, the best description of it is in the Bible. it's in the Old Testament, it's in the New Testament, it's in revelations, it's in Daniel, it's in Ezekiel, it's in Genesis. But the good news is humanity is starting to realize that the entire green movement is about power and control and dehumanization. and now governors are becoming incredibly popular, like DeSantis and others, that tell the truth, and Governor Abbott has come out and said no to the forced vaccine mandate by any of these companies. and the airlines are basically shut down right now because the people are on strike, but the corporate media won't admit that because they don't want to show the power we still have if we just exercise it. All this and more is coming up today. When we come back, I'm going to lay out some really horrifying news, but the good news is at least it's coming out. We go to break now. we'll be right back with Alex Jones. If you're concerned about the power grid and want to generate your own supply of off-grid electricity, this will be the most important message you'll hear this year. Here's why We now have a small number of solar generators back in stock. These emergency backup systems provide life-saving backup power when you need it most and, unlike gas generators, solar generators run quietly, emit no dangerous fumes and produce an endless supply of free electricity from the sun. Whether it's wildfires, dangerous weather, power grid issues or just getting off the grid, you'll never have to suffer through painful power outages again. Even better, all this week, radio listeners get over $700 in free off-the-grid bonuses too. Go to mysolarbackupcom to learn more and check availability. That's mysolarbackupcom. Look for the free report: crisis cooling- how to make absolutely sure your meat, milk and medicines stay safe and cool in any power outage. Yours free at mysolarbackupcom. Hey everybody. if you've ever thought about heirloom beans as a storable survival food, I've got great news. In fact, I'll bet it's the best news you've heard in a while. Here's the thing: we've just received a fresh batch of gourmet heirloom beans- survival soup beans. These beans are gorgeous, highly nutritious and, above all, with no hesitation whatsoever, the best tasting beans in the entire world. The best part: We've dropped the price by 33% this week. for listeners who know higher food prices are coming and want an inflation hedge, you can actually eat if you want to. gets even better. With your permission and with a high regard for your health and well-being, I also want to send you two pounds of what we think is the single most underrated superfood in the world period. Go to soupbeansurvivalcom- that's soupbeansurvivalcom- and discover the real reason we're giving this unusual superfood away at soupbeansurvivalcom. that's soupbeansurvivalcom. A little more than 20 years ago, Japanese scientists discovered and were able to isolate a compound that is naturally in nature and in foods we eat, but in very, very low amounts. it's called PQQ or bio PQQ. When you have the organic form of it, it does amazing things. it actually makes your telomeres last longer. doesn't make them grow, but makes them last longer. they're basically the same thing, So it's as close to the fountain of youth as you're going to get. Well, DNA Force Plus has been sold out for six months. it's back in stock. the highest quality PQQ, CoQ10 and so much more. This entire formula is about cleaning out your cells and helping your body last longer, and that is so incredibly important. We have it at 40% off, despite the fact it's been sold out for six months at infowarstorecom. It's amazing. if you have a tried DNA Force Plus, you really should- and for those of you that love it, it's back in stock, 40% off, exclusively at infowarstorecom. DNA Force Plus. The COVID-19 face diaper, is a symbol of subservience, a symbol of slavery, a symbol of the change that the medical tyranny combined, controlled by the global private corporations, has put in place. It is the symbol of the permanent emergency from which we will never emerge. It is the symbol that we are diseased and evil and bad. that must cover our diseased criminal faces from the light of the sun. It is the symbol of our complete and total, absolute surrender to evil. Ladies and gentlemen, we are crossing the Rubicon now. The entire future destiny of humanity is upon us. Klaus Schwab and the UN admit they're coming out with implantable microchips as part of the world ID and carbon taxes. Things only get worse from here if we submit. They only get better if we resist and say no, Noncompliance, noncompliance, noncompliance. You're listening to the Alex Jones show? All right, we're back here in the info wars world headquarters in Austin, Texas, Alex Jones rejoining us here shortly, working on vacation as usual. Now I have such a loaded broadcast coming up. If I don't do this now, I'm not sure it's ever going to happen and we won't even be on air. So folks remember info wars storecom. We have the best supplements that you can find on the market, We have the best air filters, We have the best water filters, We have the best emergency food, not to mention the apparel, the hats, the t-shirts, everything else Is it info wars storecom. And of course, that's what keeps us on the air, so we can build these platforms and still be on air live 10 plus hours a day, plus emergency broadcast, like one we have coming up tonight. Myself and Rob do will be live from 7 to 9 pm tonight, breaking exclusively some new developments or putting together some pieces on the Anthony Fauci corruption, taking a look at what he said over the years, applying it to what he's saying and doing now. putting all these pieces together, That'll be a special live tonight from 7 to 9 pm. But all of that is only possible with myself banned on everywhere, Rob do banned on everywhere, Alex Jones banned on everywhere, Info wars banned on everywhere. It's only possible with your support at info wars storecom. So I urge you to take advantage of these specials. and we have the best supplements. You can read the reviews for yourself: DNA force plus 40% off. brain force ultra- 25% off. down and out liquid sleep support- 50% off. survival shield x2- 40% off. super male and super female vitality- 40% off. living defense plus 40% off. and organic greens fiber caps- 50% off. We still have a little bit of that in stock, but it is selling out fast. that and so much more at info wars storecom. And don't remember to get your DVD copy of COVID land, part one. The lockdown COVID land is available at info wars storecom and it's your financial support there that makes everything we do here possible. All right, Before I go back to Alex, let me just try to lay all of this out here. The insanity: COVID should have been long over by now, but. but now we're just in the clown world. And so COVID has all of these crazy things where they're making people in hospitals put plastic bags over their heads. This is like one of those things like, Oh, you don't run with scissors, you know, you don't play with guns, You don't put a plastic baggy over your head. Well, that's what they tell you to do in hospitals. Now, that's that image you see. So we'll be talking with the family about that coming up as well, And Dr Richard Bartlett about that hospital. But that's just the beginning of the madness. All of these people dying from vaccines, social media influencers that were told promote the vaccine will give you a payout. You heard about that. Now they're suffering from Bell's palsy. So just all kinds of news on that front. it's just insane. I don't even know how to break all of this down. Then you have an unbelievable situation in Loudon County, Virginia, where they covered up a rape in a bathroom of a young girl. they covered up the rape of a bathroom in a young girl so they could pass transgender bathroom policies, And the individual that raped that young girl has now raped a second girl. Wow, A lot on that front. Fulton County fires people for shredding voter applications. Wow, Anti Trump people in the Navy selling nuclear secrets to foreign powers- total treason. It's just unbelievable. And then Kamala Harris- I knew there was something weird about it. Now we know, posing with actors for a fake NASA video. it's all insane. But first let's go back to Alex with more Remember: the global social engineers are betting everything on the fact that we won't adapt and overcome to their tyranny, but that we will submit to it. That's why, with the leftist teachings, the transgenderism and all the rest of the cultural brainwashing and the forced inoculations that are inoculations, it's all comply for the greater good of society And then we'll let you go back out and go back to normal again. But now, 21 months into this nightmare, what is the BBC and CNN and MSNBC and ABC News and Derspiegel tell us? they say the new normal is that we're never going back to normal. The before time of being able to travel and have a car and have air conditioning and have children is over. We're going to cut the resources off so that you can't live. Oh, you think you save money to be independent from us? We're going to crash the value of every major currency in the world very soon- It's already happening- And then we're going to demand you accept a new global app on your phone so that all the other currencies that are now devalued will suddenly have decent value again. But with it comes social credit surveillance and social credit control, And that's what Biden's controllers are lining up with. the IRS lifetime surveillance of your bank accounts- It's already happening- and the global minimum corporate tax. All of this is being set up to make way for the world taxing authority, the world taxing court, the world military and the entire project of the Rockefeller Rothschild Anglo-American Combine. So the dream of Cecil Rhodes 140 years ago is now coming to fruition, And you can read the writings of Cecil Rhodes. You can read the writings of the Biggs and Brzezinski. You can read the writings of Henry Kissinger, memorandum 200, State Department memorandum 200 about the official US government policy starting in 73. There was always a eugenics group, but they took over in 73 to establish a planetary world government to carry out depopulation. So that's where we are And that's why you see the John Hopkins data that's being reported on everywhere now, where you are- way, depending on the country, at the three times from average, about twice more likely to get sick, hospitalized or die if you've had these shots. They are desperate that we, the people, not learn the truth of what they've done and they're all going to go to prison. The globalists made their move. They've been testing their chemicals and biologicals on third world populations for 60, 70 years, But now they're going for broke with their great reset. And now they've targeted our military with a system that poisons the troops, that stays in and that runs out the forces that are actually informed and smart enough to understand that this is a death sentence. Because, even if these shots don't get you, the future injections they're already rolling out will, and they've announced, indeed, that this is a litmus test to see who will submit to this cult of death and who won't Separately. there's no way we can stay on air without your support. Info Wars is really trying to launch a lot of new initiatives to fight the new world order. You've seen the new film we produced, Covenland, having a huge effect. But we've got really seven or eight big projects in the hopper that are partly completed or almost completed, that are really going to give the globalists a run for their money. That's why they're so angry at us. That's why they're trying to shut us down, That's why they're demonizing us. That's why they're doing things that are unprecedented in the legal world in America and killing due process. because they know what we're up to. It's all legal and lawful, but it's all extremely effective and taken on the new world order. So please go to infowarstorecom. This is the last week to get the emergency blowout sale, Supply chain breakdown sale And it's 40% off. DNA force plus- that's now back in stock. It's the last week to get 50% off on winter sun and old 412 that we've extended. That's so good for your whole body and immune system. And we've got living defense that flushes out your guts and any unwanted visitors and so many other great products. But the big one is also X2, the deep earth crystal iodine that's unbound. that is so good for your cells and so good for your body. Over 2 billion people are deficient in iodine. It's caused a lot of the mental cognitive problems we see out there. It's all available between 40 and 50% off and the sale is running till Sunday. So I want to thank you all for your support. I'm going to hand the baton back to Owen Schreuer and this live broadcast. Please stay with us. Hey, everybody confused about staying healthy in a crazy COVID culture. Me too. But listen, after all the research, all the conflicting studies, after all the squabbling, there's one thing almost everyone agrees on. It's that immune system health can literally be the difference between life and death. You probably already believe that I certainly do So. here's the thing: I wanted to get past the craziness and find out which plant-based substances actually have studies that demonstrate some efficacy in immune support. Now you'll have to sign a waiver, but you can check out what I've discovered at StrongerDefensecom. No cures or treatments there. Instead, little known but shocking immune system research and a breakthrough immune support product based on that research called Immune10x. And the best part, You can go to the StrongerDefense website right now and claim your own supply of Immune10x without paying anything today. Crazy right. Learn more about this unusual limited time offer at StrongerDefensecom. That's StrongerDefensecom. People ask me all the time, Alex, the last three months or so you've had explosive energy on top of your already very intense level of energy. What's happening? Well, it's the things that are happening in the world right now. That's got my blood up, But also I've gotten back in the groove of religiously taking three products every single day: DNA Force Plus- it's back in stock. Also, X2, Deep Earth Crystal Iodine. that's essential for your immune system, your whole body And, of course, at nighttime, down and out sleep aid that makes me have deeper, cleaner, restful sleep that again boosts my immune system and is good for every cell in my body and great for the spirit. All three of these products are in stock right now. They are 40% off in the case of DNA Force Plus and 50% off for one week only on Survival Shield X2 and, yes, until supplies last. We have down and out 50% off at infowarstorecom. This is their trifecta. I suggest you check it out and experience what this does for your body. today, InfoWars emergency supply chain breakdown sale is only running for one week from Monday, October 11th, for seven days. That's because a bunch of these products that we have in stock are limited supply, because, obviously, the supply chain breakdown that I've been warning you of now for 20 months, because that's part of the great reset and part of the global's plan, That's what global lockdowns have been triggered. So we've not lowered the quality of any of our products. That means some of them have been sold out more than six months. like DNA Force Plus, It is 40% off, but coming up in one week, people go back to full price and we probably won't have more for up to six months, ladies and gentlemen. So it's a chance to support the broadcast. They've got incredible products at the same time: Winner, Sun, Ultra 12, they're both 50% off. They're going to go back to 10% off in a week as well. They're 50% off right now. Find these and more at infowarstorecom and fund the Info World, making your life a lot healthier. In late August, Info War saw an explosion of orders because our audience understands that the globalists are destabilizing the planet by design and are attempting to cause an economic and financial collapse worldwide. Now, ladies and gentlemen, storable food has always been something that's important to have. It's a checkbox that everybody needs to have taking care of, right along with water filtration, self-defense and a relationship with God. But now more than ever, you need to get your storeable food orders in Now. we're ready to ship to you within 24 hours of your order. It's high quality. It's very, very low cost at infowarstorecom, because in the future, you're going to see more food supply shortages and you're going to see food supply price increases- that are already taking place. So lock in your storeable food now at a lower price, and fund the Info War at infowarstorecom. That's how you fight. the great reset is by being self-sufficient and not under their control. So get prepared now at infowarstorecom- And we are joined by Dr Richard Bartlett now to talk about what has to be one of the most asinine, insane, illogical things that we've seen from this COVID insanity, And I know that's saying a lot. And even though this is kind of a lower level, more trivial thing, it just highlights the insanity of all of it. where hospitals are now forcing people to put plastic bags over their heads, What's next? Stick your finger in a light socket, run around with scissors and knives. I mean, this is just unbelievable. So, Dr Richard Bartlett, I don't even know. I don't know how it gets more insane than this. I don't even know how to properly respond to this. I mean, how do you even digest that this is happening? in hospitals, medical facilities, they're putting plastic bags over people's heads. I mean, how do you analyze this? Well, I think it was said best by Dale Bigtree. He said: speechless. There's no words for this. There really aren't. I'll tell you what my impression is. This is a picture of medical tyranny, unchecked And what. there's no logic behind putting plastic over someone's face that's already fighting to breathe, that is fighting a respiratory virus that causes anxiety and shortness of breath and hypoxia. It makes no sense. And I guess, like you said, this is just the image of the whole COVID response. that makes no sense, whether it's the CDC, NIH guidelines for COVID protocols and hospitals, whether it's the vaccine mandates, whether it's the lockdowns, all of it. I mean I guess, like you said this, this image just encapsulates all of the insanity into one image. It really does, And I've talked to some of the critical care doctors there about different issues. Specifically had family members call me and add me to phone calls with several doctors- one's doctor, Asarov, And they vehemently, adamantly, are opposed to buidesynide use for ARDS, which is originally triggered by COVID, but acute respiratory distress syndrome. They're against that which there is science for that. The NIH database has studies showing that studying just buidesynide nebulizer treatments for patients on the ventilator in the ICU with acute respiratory distress syndrome. that's end stage disease And they show overwhelming success with that. But you have these doctors refusing that because they're following- quote- the CDC protocol. But this is happening in their hospital for months apparently is my understanding, And I just saw the picture last night. I couldn't believe it. And that they would do this to Americans. It makes me think of the movies where they put bags over people's head and kidnap them. bags over their head for an expedition. But putting a plastic bag over someone's head that is having trouble breathing from a respiratory disease that causes anxiety and hypoxia. I don't have an answer for that, But it is a perfect picture. This is what happens when you have bad advisors, when you follow bad guidelines, when you start doing things whatever you're told you do that. because who are all the other people that put the bags over people's head and watched as this was being done to teenagers? Is that, is that criminal? Well, the fact that this has been going on for months, I think, is even worse now that we see this image, that we didn't even hear about this. But you're right, it is that energy. It's the energy of a kidnapped victim getting the bag over their head, tossed into the van. You're now in a criminal's custody. That's the same energy here. I mean this poor girl, I guess not the only one. I mean how many people have done this? This is elementary stuff. This is like: Hey, you know, your mom says: don't put that plastic bag on your head, Don't run with knives, Don't stick your finger in a pencil sharpener. I mean, it's just total common sense. And yet I mean, how do you- even I don't know if you've talked to doctors at this hospital, How many people work at this hospital that are watching people put plastic bags on their heads and not saying anything? How does nobody say anything about this for months? I don't know- The administrator's name is Russell Tippen. He's probably a good guy to ask. I mean, what is going on under his leadership? That's, I think, times up on craziness. I think this COVID crazy phenomena. I think there's enough pushback in Texas that Governor Abbott even had to buckle to the pressure and say, okay, nobody's going to have to lose their job and to take the jab. But I can tell you many people have felt coerced up until the last minute and many people have received the COVID shot because they felt like there was no way out. And that could have been done months or even a year ago by the same gentleman who finally did that yesterday. And I think there's time for a change. I'll tell you, I had the pleasure of meeting and getting to know Lieutenant Colonel Allen West, who's running for governor. That's a gentleman who's going to bring common sense to anything that he's involved in A war hero. he served our country on many levels, Even a US representative. he would be a great governor for Texas And he's made it very public on social media that he's beaten COVID with nebulized Udesinide and monoclonal antibodies. And there's a place for a different strategy than Fauci said. shelter in place and wait for me to make a vaccine. That was the strategy at the very beginning, January 2020, that he told the whole world And I thought what? This is a rapidly mutating virus. There's no way that they're going to be able to make a one time one shot, even though that's kind of what was implied at the beginning. And we have another rapidly mutating respiratory virus called influenza And we don't get that right every year. As a matter of fact, we consider 40% success with that And we don't shut down the country and collapse the economy because of it and just go completely insane putting bags on people's heads in hospitals. But I really want you to weigh in on something else. We got about two and a half minutes to break, because this is something that should have been the top story And it kind of just came and went in a flash. We have had more cases of COVID and, they say, more deaths from COVID since the vaccine than prior to the vaccine. What is your response to that? What does that signify? I think there are many factors, but definitely the solution is not the vaccine. I was asked on a Friday if I would help with a project that's run by the Texas Division of Emergency Management, setting up a monoclonal antibody infusion center in Odessa, across the street from the same hospital that these images of plastic over teenagers heads is from, And at the infusion center we infused 1200 patients in one month. That was breakneck speed And we caused that hospital census of COVID patients to go from 110 down to 42 in one month. And at the same time every other person in that monoclonal antibody infusion center was angry. they were there because they had been vaccinated, quote unquote. They had received their shots, They had done what they were told to do. because they were told to do it- Just shut up and roll up your sleeve and do it because we say so. Your body, our choice. And so they complied. And now they're angry that they're sick, that they're elderly, that they have diabetes and high blood pressure, that they're at risk of dying from COVID. Why are they meeting this infusion? And for even some federal leadership to say, to imply at one point that we shouldn't give the monoclonal antibodies to those who have received the quote COVID shot. that's further betraying these people who did what you told them to do. And so I'm going to say, just by looking at the people in the infusion center, how many people were vaccinated that were angry- they were there because it failed them- that the vaccine is not a winning strategy. There's a better way, which is what Colonel Allen West is talking about: early, effective outpatient treatment, which is also Governor DeSantis' message. It's my message. We've always used early, effective outpatient treatment for every disease. This is insane to tell us to hold our breath for a vaccine when the guy that was in charge of this spouse has been in charge of trying to chase a vaccine for HIV. We're going to break now, and there's some other developing news on this that we'll get into with Dr Richard Bartlett. Basically, there is no vaccine mandate, It's just a press release. I have the greatest sense of loss deep in my heart, deep in my soul, I've ever had in my 47 years on this planet. I've had a lot of loss, like everybody else has, And it's because it's a loss of ancestral freedom that so many people fought and died and bled and sweat for And now we're just throwing it all away. And I see the general public in a medically induced, scientifically induced, behavioral, psychologically controlled tranche And I know we're being fed into this globalist meat grinder And it's so incredibly sad. But this is the process of birth and then growth and then falling apart and then degenerating and collapsing and then coming back to life again. It's just the globalist are actively trying to steer and control this process of decadence and collapse to actually end the species as we know it. Back in stock, down and out. liquid sleep support. It's been out of stock for a while. It's one of three sleep aids we have at infowarstorecom. This one has been very popular. It's sold off the shelves. It's back in stock, down and out. liquid sleep support. This is probably the strongest sleep aid that we have. I would say Knockout, rocket rest. both great comes in pill form. This is the liquid tincture and I think this is probably the most powerful one. Survival Shield X2, nascent iodine. This is, if you haven't done an iodine challenge yet, have you haven't done the iodine challenge? What are you waiting for? now is the time. Super male and super female vitality, living defense plus and the organic green fiber caps. We have a limited supply of these right now, but we want to sell them all out so we can order a new batch. It was very popular, The organic green fiber caps- but we have all kinds of other great supplements that are great for so many different things. Take advantage of those. I want to be very clear: The fact that info wars is having trouble funding itself is not the fault of our amazing listeners and supporters. It is the fault of the globalist. When we can get enough of our great supplements and other products in, we're able to sell enough of it to stay on air and, quite frankly, even expand in the face of the new world war. But because of the supply chain breakdowns that were very easy to predict from the global lockdowns- we're designed to do that- We have had real problems getting our best selling products in. Some of them take up to 10 months to get in. We've had to discontinue some of our products because we just can't get the ingredients anymore. It's pretty scary stuff. So please take advantage of sales we're running for one week only. There's only one week left from October 11th for seven days. Kicks off October 11th on things like DNA Force Plus at 40% off, Winter Sun at 50% off, Ultra 12 at 50% off, and more at infowarstorecom. One week left. Check out these incredible deals. Cover commander here with an important message to humanity: I have decided that all of you will take a special injection so that you will be safe, But the injection is not ready yet, And so I need all of you to stay indoors for the next 15 days to flatten the camp. I also need you to wear masks, and I also need you to only shop at mega corporations. That way, we can consolidate, control and bankrupt the world economy, leaving companies that only I own profitable. You will then be my slaves, Oh, and then you get that special shot of hidden from copra will move your immune system, so you'll be dependent on me for the rest of your miserable lives, Which you're listening to. the Alex Jones show. There is so much developing right now that it's going to spur- or should I say accelerate, the mass awakening that's happening. But in response to that, the globalists, the criminals that think they own this planet, are going to have a response of their own, And we are just in the middle of it right now, like being in the middle of the Hadron collider or something, And so it's just incredible to have Dr Bartlett on breaking this down where they're putting people bags on people's heads. We're about to have that family join us as well to talk about the experience. Apparently they're doing it normally, And so Alex Jones is on the line. Alex, you know my head is spinning. I just I can't even believe this. every day I was explaining it at the top of the broadcast. It's like every day I'm recapping the most epic Super Bowl of all time and just trying to break it all down. But it's every day. It just never stops, Alex. Well, that's right, And I'm on a supposed vacation in Florida, but I just can't drag myself away And I just want to say a few things. get offered quickly. So now I've got a bad cell connection. You've got a Bartlett doing a great job. I just wanted to be able to elaborate on the fact that the mask and the studies I've seen boost levels of carbon dioxide a lot higher than they're supposed to be And it can cause problems and headaches and some brain damage over time. But if you put a whole plastic bag over somebody, down to their chest or down to their stomach, that's going to recirculate carbon dioxide and is going to cause brain damage. I'd like him to speak to that because the stories on infowarscom- Paul Watson- wrote about it, but Dr Bartlett confirmed this is going on. the hospital admits they do it. This just shows like it's a mass Milgram experiment or a Stanford experiment where they see how far they can push this. That's a. I want him to speak to that and I'll make it off. guys, It's been a great job that be more about these two young kids that went in to get a flu shot. They were given the COVID injection and both had serious heart problems. I mean, that is just just just amazing. Somebody go ahead and turn the time back over to you guys and see what you have to say. And thanks for coming on, Dr Bartlett. Yes, sir, Well, I'll tell you number one. our immediate concern is low oxygen, hypoxia, And Alex is exactly right. The lungs exchange carbon dioxide and oxygen And so when you get COVID and inflammation in the lungs, the swelling and the inflammation in the lung tissue- those two to three cell layers that are used to exchange carbon dioxide and oxygen- have swelling in that, in those in between those cells, and it's harder to exchange the oxygen. So people come into the emergency room short of breath, hypoxic, low oxygen. You want to give them oxygen and you don't want to decrease their supply of oxygen. Putting a mask on or putting a plastic bag would be the opposite of giving supplemental oxygen. I have no explanation, other than he touched on this, on that. on the second point, It seems like they're pushing as far as: how far will they let? how far will we let them go? They're trying to figure out how far can they go with with with these issues. How much will we allow? And at this point I think that Governor Abbott has heard enough is enough and and decided to do what a political windsock would do: to say, okay, looks like the polls are saying better, do something different. And I'll tell you, it's evil to try to force people to take a, a injection or have a surgery or or start taking medicines that have great risk, without giving them a right to choose and weigh the risk and benefits. And this whole, this whole thing with the propaganda of telling: just do it, Just roll up your sleeve, because we say so, damn it. And not saying there's a risk, There is absolutely a risk. I've been the ER doctor taking care of my ER patients who have had strokes, yombere syndrome, ascending paralysis, become pulmonary cripples as a result of the COVID shot and and other problems to transverse myelitis. and older lady who tried to stand up two hours after she got the shot falls flat on her face and is my patient in the ER, And she was on blood thinner. She didn't need that problem too, And so I think that it does seem like that they're going to. they're almost testing to see how far they can push us until we say no more, I'm not going to take it anymore. And there are enough people rising up. There is a global awareness, I believe, of what's going on that's rising up, that is saying enough is enough, There's a line in the sand and we really mean it And don't cross that line. As a matter of fact, back up, And Alex has been a leader, Owen, you've been a leader on this, But the war isn't over, but there is a turning that's happening right now, And when they get this ridiculous to put plastic over teenagers heads who are fighting for their breath, I think that they they're outing themselves That there's no science behind this. Show me the randomized, controlled trial, that this makes sense. A lot of things are said: just, they just do a lot of things just because they're told to, But enough is enough. Respiratory therapists and nurses and doctors need to stand up and say: I'm not going to do that because it's not medically sound, It doesn't make sense scientifically, It's against my conscience. I'm not going to follow an order just because they tell me to. That's what happened with Nazi soldiers in World War Two who just were doing their job. They were just doing what they were told. I'm just putting people on this railroad car, That's what I'm doing. I'm told to do it, So I'm doing it. And why? why is that okay? Because I was just following orders. Enough is enough. And I think that there are a lot of doctors and nurses who have been resounding that they're not personally going to get the COVID jab Just because people say to and they're willing to lose their jobs. And that was an imminent threat. Actually, I believe a lot of people did lose their job in Houston- Methodist, if I think about it for a moment- like over 150, 160 who lost their job. We'll see how this turns out. Now the governor said that you can't force private. private entities cannot force Texans to get the shot or lose their job. They lost their job, They were fired. Let's see how that goes. Well, we already have a lot of legal battles happening right now, specifically here in Texas, with our great Attorney General, Ken Paxton. But, yeah, how is this going to go with all? I mean, it's thousands across America, but definitely here in Texas? How is this going to go where they've already laid off all these workers and nurses because of a vaccine mandate that doesn't actually exist? It was literally just a press release from Biden. There is no executive order, There is no law, There is no legislation. There's nothing except a press release, And yet everybody's enforced it. You also have Southwest Airlines that is stationed in Dallas, I believe is their headquarters. They're mandating the vaccine for their pilots. But talk about the image of. the image of the woman with the bag over her head is a good optical illustration of the insanity for COVID. But talk about why we would force people to have medical procedures that they don't need. I mean, that's like somebody saying: you know, okay, I'm 32 years old, I have a healthy heart. Well, we're going to give you bypass surgery, even though you don't need it, We're going to mandate it. or we're going to give you a kidney transplant. You don't need it, but we're mandating it, or I mean talk about the idea of medical procedures that are unneeded, unnecessary and mandating that there's. this has never happened. I've never heard of this before. It's never happened before. It's totally illogical, It's non-scientific. There is no science to back it up. We've never done these things before that are being done. It was all started. These, some of these strategies were started in a communist state, in a communist nation, the most populous nation on the planet, And then those strategies were absorbed and touted and repeated by the World Health Organization and the CDC for the most part. But there was no precedent for this before. It was not science to wear a mask, a surgical mask for a respiratory virus of a flu outbreak 20 years ago, And certainly the plastic over the head almost makes you think: well, I guess they figured out the mask doesn't work and maybe they need to try to do something else. Maybe that's the logic behind it, But I could think some better ideas. There's early, effective, outpatient treatment for COVID. treat people early and make them not contagious with the monoclonal antibodies and eudesinide and aspirin and antibiotic and it works And people recover and they become, they have natural immunity and then they add to the community's herd immunity. That has been how we get out of every pandemic. January, let's see 2009- we had the H1N1 pandemic and we didn't have one vaccine that was mandated. There's a lot of things that are happening right now that are purely an agenda, that have no science behind them. They even admit if you get the vaccine, it's not going to protect you. They're not guaranteeing that it'll protect you. You could still get COVID, But it's to protect other people is what they say. The logic there's no. there's such a major gap in the logic here that I'm surprised that so many people have swallowed it. But you know, we've been taught to follow And so many people have been. they felt coerced, they felt intimidated, they felt like they were betraying other people and putting other people at risk because that's what they were told And they just did what they were told. And so I have taken care of some of those people in the emergency room that are damaged, that are permanent. their lives have totally been destroyed because they've complied. It's okay to comply with things that make sense, with science behind it, that are for the better, for the common good. We already have seen those things. but this is crazy And we're about to go to break here. We're going to be joined by the family that has made this story go viral- with the bag over their head, But apparently it's been going on. But I mean, imagine, imagine hospitals just actually nurses or doctors actually putting their hands around your neck and suffocating you and choking you. Well, that'd be a crime, but they do it with a bag and it's okay In full wars. emergency supply chain breakdown sale is only running for one week, from Monday October 11th, for seven days. That's because a bunch of these products that we have in stock are limited supply, because, obviously, the supply chain breakdown that I've been warning you of now for 20 months, because that's part of the great reset and part of the global's plan, That's what global lockdowns have been triggered. So we've not lowered the quality of any of our products. That means some of them have been sold out more than six months, like DNA Force Plus, It is 40% off, but coming up in one week, people go back to full price and we probably won't have more for up to six months. ladies and gentlemen, So it's a chance to support the broadcast. You've got incredible products at the same time: Winter Sun, Ultra 12, they're both 50% off. They're going to go back to 10% off in a week as well. They're 50% off right now. Find these and more at infowarstorecom and fund the info world, making your life a lot healthier. A little more than 20 years ago, Japanese scientists discovered and were able to isolate a compound that is naturally in nature and in foods we eat, but in very, very low amounts. It's called PQQ or bio PQQ. When you have the organic form of it, it does amazing things. It actually makes your telomeres last longer- Doesn't make them grow, but makes them last longer in the space of the same thing, So it's as close to the fountain of youth as you're going to get. Well, DNA Force Plus has been sold out for six months. It's back in stock, the highest quality PQQ, CoQ10 and so much more. This entire formula is about cleaning out your cells and helping your body last longer, and that is so incredibly important. We have it at 40% off, despite the fact it's been sold out for six months at infowarstorecom. It's amazing. If you haven't tried DNA Force Plus, you really should, And for those of you that love it, it's back in stock, 40% off exclusively at infowarstorecom: DNA Force Plus. We are now in the second hour of the Alex Jones show, Dr Richard Bartlett, on the phone line, We are now joined by the mother of the 17-year-old girl who was humiliated, And I mean you could say tortured. I mean, if you did this in a jail or you know you had a prisoner you're trying to get answers from- they'd call this torture, suffocating them with a bag over their head, But they're kind enough to just call it humiliation. And so, Dr Richard Bartlett, do you want to introduce the mother of this young girl that, in my view, got tortured inside a hospital, forced to suffocate under a plastic bag? Dr Richard Bartlett, Natalie is the mother, And Natalie's 17-year-old daughter was sick with COVID. And so Natalie did the right thing: She sought medical help. Unfortunately, many people are being- it seems like many people are being- betrayed. They look for help but they get a bag over their head Or they're being deprived from life, potentially life-saving medicines like eudesomide nebulizer treatments. If you're a retired state senator who can call the governor of Georgia, then you might eventually get it after the doctors deny it over and over. But Natalie's daughter? she brought her daughter to the emergency room And, to her shock and horror, her plastic bag was placed over her daughter. I have no explanation for that. Natalie was there. I was not As an ER doctor. I have never done that to anybody. Natalie, can you tell us what in the world is going on? Yes, that was my question. They said they were going to keep her, Sorry, And then they were going to transport her and they came with a bag And they said that they had to put it over her head. And I said: are you serious? Like she can't breathe, She has her mask. I forget the mask would be enough. And they said, no, it was protocol, They had to put the. I guess they were going to be in the halls with other people. Wow, I'm speechless. I think Del Bigtree summed it up really well: Speechless was his one word. This is insanity. This is unethical and moral. Some people would call it child abuse And for people that are complicit with that complying with it. I have no explanation for putting a suffocating hazard over a child's head, Or I think that we'd probably react quickly if we went into the ER and we saw someone with a pillow over someone's face. But this is insane. I have no excuse for this. It's inexcusable and it needs to be held accountable. Thank God we have people like Ken Paxton, who's our attorney general of Texas, who is interested in protecting the Texans, the individual Texans' rights, And so I'm so grateful that he's our attorney general. He's a real hero. Everybody should listen to what he says, But it's time for a change in Texas. If this is what can be done under the current leadership, if this is what can be done under the current leadership of that hospital, if this is what is acceptable to the orderlies and the lab techs and the x-ray techs and the nurses and everybody that sees a kid getting rolled down, the anxious, short of breath, with a plastic bag over their head, somebody should have reached over there and pulled that off the child's head and helped them. I have no excuse for this. It was like a normal thing for them. Everybody seemed to have accepted it. Yeah, it was just like okay if you're just walking by with a bag over your head. I guess four years in Nazi Germany people started to think certain things were normal, about people coming off of trains and then not appearing again after they go in for a shower. This is not acceptable. Oh, one's right, You're right, I'm right. This common sense, This is not acceptable. This will not fly. I didn't see this in the CDC protocol, but I wouldn't be surprised By the way early, effective outpatient treatment with Budesonite has not been acknowledged by the CDC or the FDA has not, to emergency use, authorized Budesonite. but this is allowed by who? I say no more. This is crazy. What is your advice? Natalie, after this happened to your daughter, I don't think that they should put a bag over their head. She got really anxious, She couldn't breathe and I think it makes it harder for them if they can't breathe already and you put a bag over their head, like when you were little and they told you: don't put bags over your head. It even says on plastic bags: keep out of reach of children because of suffocation, We're going to break, We'll be right back. So if you understand that, this is not FDA approved, it's totally experimental. It's never been given to human beings before. Some of the ingredients inside of these, of these shots, have never been injected in human beings before. There are no long term studies. We don't know what's going to happen inside your body somewhere four to six weeks after your second injection, or four to six months, or even two years. We have no idea whether it's going to cause infertility, whether it's going to cause cancer, how bad your autoimmune disease is going to be. My conclusion: after looking at this for a long time and listening to the arguments for these masks, I've determined that, if you believe, if you're a medical doctor or a scientist that's spouting using these masks, you're either being played or you're being paid. Secure your copy of Covidland today at covidlandcom. If you order by October 6, you get a free copy of Endgame blueprint for global displacement Live from the InfraWarscom studios. you're listening to the Alex Jones show And now your host, Owen Shroyer, And we have Dr Richard Bartlett on the line and Natalie, the mother of a young girl who went to a hospital for Covid treatment and she was told to put a plastic bag over her head. If you're hearing this just now for the first time, you're probably thinking this is a joke or this is insane. it can't be. No, we have the images. it's a real thing And apparently that was normal protocol there. Boy, I hope we're reaching rock bottom of this Covid insanity, but somehow I doubt it And I'd like to see, and maybe Natalie can give us more information on this. I think that you should probably even try to find another one of these bags. I wouldn't be surprised if on the bag it even says suffocation risk on it, like many plastic bags do, because it says it's an equipment cover on the bag, so it's obviously not intended for humans. But Natalie, let's just draw back. Tell the audience what happened that day. Your daughter gets sick, you take her to the hospital. she goes to the hospital for treatment. just break down just how the day went. You go to the hospital, you're talking to doctors and then you see your daughter with the bag over her head. Just try to relive that. I know it's traumatizing, I know it's emotional. we'll be patient here. but just try to explain to the audience what it was like that day. It was very hard. Her oxygen was already low. Her oxygen was in 85, 86. when we got there They tested her for Covid. We already knew she was positive and they still tested her again. Then they said that she needed to be on oxygen. so they put her on oxygen and then they said they were going to keep her just to make sure she was okay because she was low on oxygen. Then they came to transport us and then she brought a bag and I'm like, okay, what's that for? She says we have to put it over her head. I said for what She says: anytime we transport them through the halls where there's other patients, we have to put it over their head. I'm like, okay, so she had the mask on already and the bag, but she kept saying she couldn't breathe. so she took off the mask and they told her she had to put the mask back on. She put the mask back on and then they took us to the room, but the way to the room she had to wear the bag. When she got in the room she could take off the bag, but she had to keep it. so if she had to do any x-rays, CAT scans, she had to put the bag back on. anytime she was in the hallways with other people, Then they tested her and all of that, and then we stayed the night. Then the next morning they came in and said they were taking her to ICU for her DKA and then they put the bag back on her and took her to ICU and she had to wear the bag until she was in the room. Once she was in the room she didn't have to wear the bag, It was just anytime she left the room she had to wear the bag. And what hospital was this at? again Medical Center in Odessa, Texas. And you're to be understood that this is the protocol for this. That's what she said, that anytime any patient had COVID and being admitted they had to wear the bag anytime they were in the hallways with any other people. Did you see anybody else in the bag, like your daughter that day? No, But they said that that was normal protocol. so we're to assume that hundreds or potentially even thousands of people were put in a bag to suffocate and that was considered protocol. Yes, sir. Well, folks, I know that this sounds unbelievable, but you can go to infowarscom right now. We have the story, we have the images of this so you can see it for yourself. And I know that this was tough for you, Natalie, but you know good job with your instincts to take a picture of this for the world to see. Who knows, you could be saving people from this treatment in the future. so maybe some good will come of this torture your daughter and you have had to go through. But again, folks, you can see the images at infowarscom. headline: dehumanized COVID patient in Texas Hospital had plastic bag placed over her head. Dr Richard Bartlett. I mean now we're supposed to believe that this is considered a protocol there, which is even perhaps harder to believe. so what? They've been doing this to hundreds, maybe thousands of people And I mean, how do you even have this going on for so long? And it takes Natalie to be the first one to show it's happening Right. Well, you know, this is not the only thing that I disagree with. at that hospital, I've been promoting early, effective outpatient treatment and late care for ARDS, patients with buidesonide, And patients loved once have been denied repeatedly the buidesonide, And it's just a nightmare. I think whoever the administrator should be held accountable. I think Harry Truman- I was born in Missouri- Harry Truman had on his desk the buck stops here. He was going to be responsible and be accountable for. anything that happened on his watch is what that implies. I think that whoever's running the hospital should be held accountable. And if taxpayer dollars are paying for his leadership- and this is the fruit of his leadership- I think that maybe we need different leadership. But and the doctors that have been complicit in this involved in this? if they, I'm not sure if they were trained in the United States, where did they go to medical school? Where are they from. This is not how we do things in America. So I'm saying doctors that are involved in this that I don't know how they could keep their license if, once it's proven that they're involved in this, that this is their recommendation, that this is their protocol. I don't know how the medical board would stand by for this when they're attacking doctors for doing early, effective outpatient treatment with buidesonide or ivermectin or hydroxychloroquine. People have been doctors, have been attacked and there's been attempts to totally destroy them and do character assassination for doing the unthinkable: treating patients that are sick. But this is crazy And those doctors should be held accountable If they're on a contract with that hospital. I don't know how they're going to, how they could justify keeping them on the contract with the hospital. People need to be held accountable. This is that time in human history where atrocities like this need to be called out and held accountable. This is insane Post traumatic stress disorder. If someone's hypoxic, they could have a heart attack, They could have a, they could have a stroke. There's all kinds of arrhythmias, You can have all kinds of problems with hypoxia. They could suffocate to death. I mean you could people have suffocated to death in plastic bags. So well said. Dr Richard Barlett, Let me ask you this: though You're at the hospital, You're in a room, You're treating a patient, You you leave the room, You get out in the hallway and you see a patient with a plastic bag over her head. What would your response be? What would you do? I'd rip her off her head. I do exactly what you do: the immediate things. You take care of people. You do. It's your training, It's your instinct. I've had people hit by cars on the side of the road. I've had to run over there and rescue them, to open their airway and eventually call for an ambulance, and I started IVs on the side of the road. I'd take my belt off and tie it around someone's leg if they were bleeding to death, If it was, if they needed a tourniquet. not because the belt is FDA approved. common sense is still allowed. Common sense still has a place in Texas, and this is unconscionable. This is contrary to common sense and just because a doctor says it doesn't mean it's so, and this is evidence of that. If there's doctors, critical care doctors, they're experts, quote, unquote- that said that this is their protocol that they've come up with, Well, this is evidence that just because a doctor says something doesn't mean it's true. As a matter of fact, it might be the opposite of the truth. This is not good for patients to put plastic over their head when they're hypoxic. and if a doctor says that this is what they're recommending, that doctor should not be practicing medicine. He should be doing something else. Find something else you could do appropriately, Do something else. but this is not contributing. This is harming people and putting them potentially in life-threatening situations. Absolutely, This is insane. If I saw this in a hallway, I'd immediately rescue the patient. Yeah, if you saw your kid running in the kitchen with a plastic bag over your head, you'd rip it off. If you saw anything like this, I mean, it's just, this is so common sense, and I'm just curious. in 30 seconds to break here, The bag says equipment cover on it. I'm guessing this is a common thing in hospitals. I mean, so they just have equipment cover bags? I mean there has to be some warning on it too. I keep out of reach of children. I mean, do you know anything about these bags that are putting on people? No, but I hope that more comes out Now that this is leaked out and that this has been happening right under our nose. what else is happening? You know we hear about human trafficking happening underneath our nose, in our communities. This is an example of something else that you see, just a glimmer of things that are totally inappropriate, totally wrong. You cannot look the other way. I'm asking the list. Your voice counts When you share information, be it over the internet or in person. it changes the world. The globalists know their agenda is unpopular. They know you're angry. And now, to get around big tech, it's more important than ever that we use every tool we've got. Well, ladies and gentlemen, if you sign up for our free news and show alerts, you can then take those alerts, those articles and those live feeds- both the regular shows and special reports- and share them with everyone you know. Take action now by texting the word NEWS to 833-470-0438.. That's 833-470-0438,. or emergency news alerts. or text the word SHOW to 833-470-0438 and receive live show notifications. Take action now, rate the chain reaction and tell others to share those texts. Get news alerts at 833-470-0438.. What if you could cut your heating bills this winter with your existing wood-burning fireplace and not spend thousands doing it? You can with Great Wall of Fire fireplace grates, Our US patented, Made in America. Wall of Fire grates increase fireplace efficiency, eliminate fireplace smoke problems and come with a 30-day money-back guarantee. See our grates in action and get free shipping from Wall of Fire dot com or call 800-274-7364,. fireplace heat without fireplace smoke. Wall of Fire dot com. The average person on the face of this incredible planet is still unaware that there's a war between free individuals and nation states on one side and the globalist on the other, who are literally trying to create a post-human world. From the United States to Brazil and, of course, triggered by the Brexit in the UK, nations were pulling out of the private, corporate, fascist world government. That's why they launched their great recess and their program, after collapsing us, of Build Back Better. This is nothing more than a top-down vertical consolidation of the world economy. And because they couldn't take our guns and because we wouldn't bow, because the left, which is the ideology of this world government system, couldn't win, they released a biological weapon on us. Now we know two years ago. we learned about it about 20 months ago. It's that simple. They can't, maybe because of our free speech and our guns. so the global corporate combine released COVID-19, and you know. the rest is history. Expose this paradigm and we win. You'd have to be hiding under a rock not to know that vitamin D, vitamin C, zinc and other essential vitamins and minerals are essential to our bodies, to our immune systems. We don't have them, Long term we die. But what a lot of people don't know is, even if you have those compounds, the levels that are recommended, if you don't have deep, restful, clean sleep, your body will fall apart even faster. And with so many chemicals in the food and water and so much agitation in the culture and life, it's hard to settle down, It's hard to relax. Well, let me tell you something right now. Down and out is an incredibly strong natural compound. It's got over eight compounds in it that will give you deep, pure, clean sleep and it's such a game changer. So, with all the vitamins and minerals, the last big ingredient is down and out, available again at infowarstorecom for 50% off. And you know what? I'm going to keep it 50% off until it sells out, even though we've already sold out a half of it in just the last month and we probably are going to have more for about five months. You're listening to the Alex Jones show. We're back here on the Alex Jones show- Alex Jones- with us on the line, Dr Richard Bartlett as well, and the mother of the 17 year old girl who was forced to put a plastic bag over her head against all logic and common sense, And we're now learning that this has been the policy at that hospital for over a year. This has been going on for over a year. You put a plastic bag over a child's head. as a parent, You could be responsible for crimes, for child abuse, But oh, this is policy at a hospital. Dr Richard Bartlett, you were making such a eloquent call to action, You were cut off by the break. Pick it off where you left off there. Pick it up where you left off. on this call to action right now for nurses, for doctors, for people in hospitals, for just all Americans. For all Americans. at this point we have to call out abuse of power. This is abuse of power. This is a picture of medical tyranny, but it is abuse of power at the core. And so, as these things are uncovered, I think of Arthur Polowski, the pastor up in Canada who's been arrested and he's been mistreated and abused by the government. Abuse of power needs to be held accountable from this point forward, And if people have been governors, senators, congressmen and stood silent by while all this stuff has been happening to Americans. they need to be removed. Vote for someone else, Vote for a change for freedom, Vote for freedom. But we need to also hold local hospital administrators accountable, local doctors accountable. Enough is enough, And so that is my message: Hold accountable abuse of power, and doctors have abused us greatly. Alex, Absolutely. I'm just listening to you and totally agreeing. That's why I called in as you hit the break and were saying: I have a call to action for the listeners And I just hope people understand that it looks like the globalists are losing, because the truth is coming out. at one level they are, but their original plan is to break down our industrial society and create a post-industrial world, And so that's what they're really doing right now, And so I think it's very important people understand that none of this makes sense. None of this almost surface looks good, because it's not designed to be good. It's meant to destroy trust in our institutions. It's meant to bring our country down And on the ashes of it they're going to build world governments. That's what's so sophisticated about the racial division and all the other divisions that are taking place here is they're using our own institutions against this And the people inside the system that are going along with it think that they're just part of a collective and actually helping people, but they're not. So it's the minions that also think they're doing good following orders that need to wake up and see how they're part of a larger plan to bring down the civilization. I want to thank this lady for having the courage to speak up. I think how many people didn't speak up when they were putting, you know, these bags over their bodies, I mean all the way down to their stomachs. This is all again just a raw exercise of power, And I'm just tuning into the show. I just had to call in and ask that question. Thanks, Dr Richard Bartlett. let me ask you a quick question here and then we'll get a final word from Natalie. If somebody came in with a child that you saw was suffering from hypoxia and you found out that the child was having a plastic bag put on their head at home, what would you do in response to that? as a doctor, We would absolutely immediately call law enforcement. That is child abuse And that doesn't even take a moment's thought. That's what should happen, And if I see that happen in the hospital. you know it's not impossible to believe. it has happened before that there has been abuse in hospitals and nursing homes. That's been in the history of the United States. Bad things sometimes happen And if I saw someone putting a pillow over someone's head in a hospital bed, I would intervene. If I saw someone put a plastic bag over someone's head, that was hypoxic, I would intervene And I would probably not be on the same page as the doctors that say that this is their policy. I have not been on their page about early, effective outpatient treatment or using eudesinide nebulized treatments for ARDS in the hospital, which has rescued many people. Just yesterday, Lieutenant Colonel Allen West made it public on social media He was rescued with monoclonal antibodies and eudesinide nebulizer treatments in his hospital in Plano. That should be available for everybody. I have locked horns with doctors in this same hospital that are okay with plastic bags over children's heads. I'm not on the same page with them on several things. Natalie, thank you for joining us. I know this must be tough, Just enduring it, seeing this treatment of your daughter as well, especially at a place, a hospital, where you think you should be able to trust fully, and now you can't. You don't probably ever want to leave your kid in the hospital ever again unattended. sadly, because of this Final words, Natalie, thank you so much for joining us. Thank you so much. Yeah, it was hard, but hopefully this will help and it'll stop, because it's very hard seeing your kid in a plastic bag when they can't breathe and them telling you you have to leave it on. So thank you very much, Natalie. thank you very much, and I can't believe that it took over a year of this treatment for somebody to blow the whistle on it, for somebody to take a picture of it, for somebody to call it out. but that's the case. It was you, Natalie, and hopefully the treatment of your daughter will not be in vain and we can stop this torturous treatment of people at this clinic so that they don't have to endure putting a bag over the head. I'm sorry, hold on the crew. What was that? Oh, okay, What about your husband? This, Natalie, there was another family member who had her 16-year-old son and her husband sick with COVID and they came to the ER and the husband was put on the ventilator and passed shortly after that, but the son had the same plastic bag treatment. I've heard about and talked to that family today as well. I can't believe this is happening over and over again at that place. This is a county hospital with county taxpayer dollars. This is a county hospital that should be providing care for the community and be a safety net for the community. This should not happen. and if these doctors are from other countries and have different philosophies of the value of human life or the value of patient rights, that's not acceptable in Texas. putting plastic over children's heads. Are you going to be looking further into this, Dr Bartlett, about how long this has been going on, How many people have had to endure this? I expect that this is something the whole community is going to take a close look at and as a community, we need to respond and we should not allow the same leadership that has allowed this. If they've been aware of it and they've allowed this, what do you call that? if such a thing as child abuse- and you're watching it happen, If this is, if this is being child abuse, I don't think it's healthy, to put it mildly. It's insanity. Yeah, child abuse in the home, but protocol in a hospital? it makes no sense. Natalie, how is your daughter right now, by the way? Is she getting better, Better. She's getting better. Well, our prayers are with your daughter. Our prayers are with you and your family. I just can't even imagine what this experience has been like for you and folks. we just we can't. I hope the community does make a fuss about this because, again, this would be considered child abuse in the home, but somehow it's considered policy in the hospital. Dr Richard Bartlett, thank you so much for joining us today. Natalie, thank you so much for joining us today and folks- I know, I know that this sounds crazy to believe, I know, but you can go to infowarscom and see it for yourself. We have the images and I think that this is probably just the beginning of this story getting exposed. Have you ever thought about turning your Glock XD family or 1911 handgun into a semi-automatic carbine? It only takes about 30 seconds. The mech-tech carbine upper is classified as an accessory and can be delivered right to your doorstep with no FFL or background check required. It's the world's most versatile pistol accessory. Build your custom upper today. Simply go to handgunconversioncom. That's handgunconversioncom. What if you could cut your heating bills this winter with your existing wood-burning fireplace and not spend thousands doing it? You can with Great Wall of Fire fireplace grates. Our US patented, Made in America Wall of Fire grates increase fireplace efficiency, eliminate fireplace smoke problems and come with a 30-day money-back guarantee. See our grates in action and get free shipping from walloffirecom or call 800-274-7364,. fireplace heat without fireplace smoke- walloffirecom. A little more than 20 years ago, Japanese scientists discovered and were able to isolate a compound that is naturally in nature and in foods we eat, but in very, very low amounts. It's called PQQ or Bio PQQ. When you have the organic form of it, it does amazing things. It actually makes your telomeres last longer. It doesn't make them grow, but makes them last longer. This basically the same thing, So it's as close to the fountain of youth as you're going to get. Well, DNA Force Plus has been sold out for six months. It's back in stock. the highest quality PQQ, CoQ10 and so much more. This entire formula is about cleaning out your cells and helping your body last longer, and that is so incredibly important. We have it at 40% off, despite the fact it's been sold out for six months at infowarstorecom. It's amazing. If you haven't tried DNA Force Plus, you really should, And for those of you that love it, it's back in stock: 40% off exclusively at infowarstorecom. DNA Force Plus, Frank in North Carolina. thanks for holding so long. Go ahead. Yeah, I just have to say something, man. It seems like every time I turn on your broadcast, your bracket, it just gets old. man, I'm going to shut you down right now. Okay, We're taking calls about your nomination, Do you understand? they're having congressional hearings trying to shut us down. Do you understand? I'm ringing the alarm. If that was happening to anybody else, I'd be freaked out. I mean, what's it going to take us being shut down? Is that what you want, Frank? You know what. I'll put it on pause again. Hey, Frank, do you understand? it's not bragging to say we are the tip of the spear, We're under attack. We need your help. As much bagging as I do, we can barely pay the bills and grow in the face of this. I'm not going to just stop growth and let them start pushing us backwards. You understand, I need your help, Frank. I need your help, Frank. Go to infowarstorecom right now and help fund the info. Do you understand? I need your help, Frank. Free press needs your help, Frank. I want to be very clear. The fact that info wars is having trouble funding itself is not the fault of our amazing listeners and supporters. It is the fault of the globalist. When we can get enough of our great supplements, other products in, we're able to sell enough of it to stay on air and, quite frankly, even expand in the face of the new world war. But because of the supply chain breakdowns that were very easy to predict from the global lockdowns- we're designed to do that- We have had real problems getting our best selling products in. Some of them take up to 10 months to get in. We've had to discontinue some of our products because we just can't get the ingredients anymore. It's pretty scary stuff. So please take advantage of sales we're running for one week only. There's only one week left from October 11th for seven days. Kicks off October 11th on things like DNA Force Plus at 40% off, Winter Son at 50% off, Ultra 12 at 50% off and more at infowarstorecom. One week left. Check out these incredible deals. We now take you live to the Central Texas Command Center and the heart of the resistance And now your host, Owen Troyer. Alright, what a crazy story we just covered. Remember, folks? this doesn't get out. This story doesn't get out. These videos don't get seen. This coverage doesn't get heard unless you share the links. Spread the videos wherever. however, you can Tell friends and family about info wars. You want to understand what this COVID madness is all about? Here's the place to go. Tell them about freeworldnewstv. That's how we get the message out. Distribution by proxy, as James O'Keefe has coined the term, And it's your support that keeps us on the air, And then it's your effort to get the information out that makes it has a have a greater impact. Now I'm going to start pile driving through all this news, and more news is just coming in as I'm sitting here. It's just building up as on my desk, So let me just turn into a news pile driver right here on air and get this out. So, all right, we just covered the story about how it's a hospital policy to put a plastic bag over people's heads. I mean, it's just total insanity. This has to be rock bottom. but they'll find a way to go lower, I'm sure. potential suffocating of its patients by forcing them into a plastic bag. child abuse at home. hospital policy for COVID. But we've covered that, So let's move on. Marjorie Taylor Greene is a great American And this story is now becoming the main story, as CEOs and major companies that have been devastated by this vaccine mandate are all blaming Biden. But here's the catch: There is no mandate. It doesn't even exist. It was just a Biden press release. It was just a dictate of the Democrat Party and Anthony Fauci. Here's Marley Taylor Greene on Twitter: There is no federal law mandating vaccines. We never voted on it because it does not exist. There is also no rule under OSHA that allows for companies to be fined for not wearing or for not mandating vaccines. Corporate communism needs to end now. Biden is not a dictator. No, he can barely even pull his own pants up or tie his shoes or walk. Moving on New studies: natural immunity in COVID-19,: 29 scientific studies to share with employers, health officials and politicians- 29 studies now, all showing natural immunity works. natural immunity works. You don't have any studies that show the vaccines are safe and effective. You have the exact opposite. The vaccines are killing people. The vaccines are causing vaccine variants to spread. And then the studies that they do, do they find out? oh well, it looks like immunity lasts for maybe 30 days, or maybe it's 70 percent effective max with some of these vaccines. But you are the experiment, So they're figuring all that out. now Rob Schneider turns out to be one of the good people in Hollywood. We salute him. Take a stand with your fellow Americans for freedom and fight this authoritarian tyranny while we still can. And he shares the video of the pilot who talked about how he's being forced off the job because of the vaccine mandate. By the way, I've got a new development on that as well, coming up Richest man in the world, Elon Musk. Elon Musk leaves California describing lockdowns as fascist. Yes, the left has always been the fascists. That's why Antifa has been such an ironic joke: going after Trump or conservatives or free market capitalist, ignoring the actual fascists at Google and Apple and Big Tech and in the Democrat Party. Now you have to understand when you see these headlines about the vaccine. it's all marketing. So, oh, black people aren't taking the vaccine. Let's do a marketing push for black people, Oh. and so now it's oh, pregnant mothers don't want to take the vaccine. Let's do a marketing push for pregnant mothers. and they do it in a disguise, a camouflage of a news story like this in ABC News. This is a vaccine marketing scam disguised as a news report. Families speak out as COVID-19 Delta variant proves dangerous for pregnant people. But what about the vaccine? No see, this is all about making you afraid of COVID or Delta or whatever the vaccine variant, so that you go get that vaccine. because they know pregnant mothers aren't taking it, because they know the risks and they don't want their baby to have the side effects and they don't want their baby to have potential side effects if they get it and they breastfeed. So they say, oh, look, here's a just think marketing. it's basic marketing. Where is a group of people that we're not reaching? The vaccine manufacturers ask and then they say, oh well, we don't have very many pregnant people that are getting the vaccine. So they say, okay, let's pay for a story in ABC News to make pregnant mothers afraid of COVID so that they get the vaccine, and we'll camouflage it as a news story so they don't know it's just a marketing campaign. Two more hospitals demand mandatory vaccination before allowing organ transplants. The story is at info warscom. So that's now three hospitals. But remember, Democrats tell you, socialists tell you healthcare is a right, healthcare is a human right. They say: healthcare is a human right. Nobody should be denied healthcare for no reason whatsoever. Oh, but now, unless it's you don't have a vaccine, then it's okay. Oh, I see, I get it. Your tyrants actually is what you are. Your authoritarians actually is what you are. Oh, here's the science on the other side of the vaccine effectiveness versus natural immunity effectiveness, Researchers see fading vaccine effect, as seven in 10 COVID deaths in Sweden are fully vaccinated, 70% of COVID deaths in Sweden fully vaccinated. And you have all different data sets that are coming out now that prove the vaccine is either not effective and or killing people, as you have more COVID deaths since the vaccine than prior to the vaccine. Oh, but they're not blaming Biden for that. That's pretty amazing. We don't even have the common sense to say: Hmm, where were the variants for the first year of this virus And how come they just started happening after the vaccine? Ah, that's because the vaccine causes the variants. more from the pilot that had that viral video- we played it yesterday- It's growing by tens of thousands. Pilot behind viral anti-vax pro freedom video says thousands are joining the US freedom flyers organization every day. So something is going to have to give here And the egg is going to end up being on Biden's face, I think because of the pilot standing up, the nurses standing up, the doctors standing up, the average American standing up, And then Biden is going to be the scapegoat for the vaccine mandates And these CEOs who? they were all about the mandates. they're going to act like they had nothing to do with it. They were all about it. They're all corporate fascist as well, But they're going to use Biden as the scapegoat and say he said we had to do it, It's Biden's fault, So the demise of Biden will continue. And then you know- I don't have time to get into it because it's just such a redundant thing- But every day I have stacks of news, whether it's Nancy Pelosi of the Democrat Party, when Trump was in office, saying: don't take the vaccine, it's being rushed for political reasons, it could kill people. whether it's David Axelrod, big liberal reporter, saying the exact same thing: fast tracking this vaccine to get elected, Donald Trump, you're going to kill people- And just stacks of these news. Defiant L's is an account that just documents all of this And it just shows how they're all liars. It just shows how they're all frauds. When Trump was in office, they all said the vaccine was going to be deadly and not to take it. And then, as soon as Biden got in, they told you you have to take it. So what does that tell you about these people At least one. you shouldn't trust them. Now, this is a hilarious self-own by the left that they just haven't figured out yet And I hope this isn't the reality of the case. But there's a meme that's going around or a cartoon that's going around of liberals making- and they think it's some sort of an own of the unvaccinated. And guys, if you want to do a doc cam here, it's a group of basically stick figures And all of them are standing on the ground or laying on the ground in gray, and then one of them is red And the caption says: standing up. the one that's red is standing up. the great are all on the ground And the caption says: this is Bob. Bob isn't vaccinated and apparently has superpowers which enable him to infect and kill vaccinated people while preserving his own life. Bob is selfish And they somehow think this is an own of the unvaccinated. When, if anything, this is a total cell phone. you're admitting that the vaccines don't work and or are killing you and that the only people that will survive COVID are the unvaccinated. But these are not bright people that we're dealing with, So I shouldn't be so surprised that that is the case. But hey, Nancy Pelosi came out the other day. we have the video at info warscom. In a article, Mella megalomaniac Pelosi admits she thinks a lot about ruling the world. Oh yes, we know, Nancy. we know that you and your fellow communists and fascists and totalitarians and authoritarians and government, we know you think you want to run the world. We know you've made deals with the Chinese communists. We know you've made deals with the UN. We're just waking up to it And you think it's all a big game. You think it's all a big joke. It's not going to end so well. All right, more news on the other side. And then we have a whistleblower nurse who's standing up against the vaccines joining us as well. It's all coming up on the Alex Jones show. Remember, five days left for the specials at info wars storecom? only five days left for these big sales. By now you've heard me talk about the bio pros and how they're creating amazing products. They've done it again and have just released an entire suite of bio remediation products, bringing industrial level technology to the everyday consumer. They're literally changing the industry with a revolutionary patented delivery system. The bio pros are excited to release bio drain pro, a product specifically designed to establish healthy drains, pipes and overall plumbing systems. Bio drain, pro digest grease, fats, oil, sludge, paper and organic matter with ease. It contains no chemicals, no GMOs and is safe for black gray holding tanks, sewer hoses and plumbing. It is also human and animal safe. Get up to 20 treatments with the scoop. for easy applications. Say goodbye to drain problems, gas buildup and odor guaranteed. Just pour and add water. It's that simple. Visit the bio proscom and see for yourself. People ask me all the time: Alex, the last three months or so you've had explosive energy on top of your already very intense level of energy. What's happening? Well, it's the things that are happening in the world right now. That's got my blood up, But also I've gotten back in the groove of religiously taking three products every single day: DNA force plus- it's back in stock. Also X2, deep breath crystal iodine- that's essential for your immune system, your whole body. And, of course, at nighttime, down and out sleep aid that makes me have deeper, cleaner, restful sleep that again boost my immune system and is good for every cell in my body and great for the spirit. All three of these products are in stock right now. They are 40% off in the case of DNA force plus and 50% off for one week only on survival shield X2 and, yes, until supplies last We have. we have down and out 50% off and then forward storecom. This is their trifecta. I suggest you check it out and experience what this does for your body today. So when I first started taking survival skills, basically I was 275 pounds overweight. I had brain fog like you wouldn't believe. I was barely holding onto a job and I heard Dr Group on your show and I listened to it. So the first one I got was the original survival shield X1 and it worked pretty good. And then shortly thereafter you came out with X2.. You had, you know, with a deep burn source, you know, and I got really excited about that. So I took it and then in two weeks I went from brain fog to like literally like my brain was enlightened, you know. I could think again, I could connect with people again And over the course of the next couple of years I got my health back and I religiously take basically all of your supplements. They're all absolutely amazing supplements. The one I like recently is knockout, literally like if you want to sleep, just take it. It's amazing, It works, But anyway. so the point is we have to get ourselves clean. We have to break free of the globalist system And the only way to do that is to take our own health into our own hands. Beautifully said, brother. I thank you so much for your call and Godspeed. Info wars- emergency supply chain breakdown- sale is only running for one week, from Monday, October 11th, for seven days. That's because a bunch of these products that we have in stock are limited supply because, obviously, the supply chain breakdown that I've been warning you of now for 20 months, because that's part of the great reset and part of the globalist plan, That's what global lockdowns have been triggered. So we've not lowered the quality of any of our products. That means some of them have been sold out for the six months, like DNA Force Plus. It is 40% off, but coming up in one week, people go back to full price and we probably won't have more for up to six months. ladies and gentlemen, So it's a chance to support the broadcast. You've got incredible products at the same time: Winner's Sun Ultra 12,. they're both 50% off. They're going to go back to 10% off in a week as well. They're 50% off right now. Find these and more at infowarstorecom and fund the info world, making your life a lot healthier. Now we have just highlighted a level of evil that is going on in response to this COVID, where they have a policy to put plastic bags over people's heads in a hospital. It'd be called suffocation or child abuse anywhere else, but in the hospital for COVID somehow that works. But as evil as that is, this story might be even worse And you want to try to make sense of this in your head. You only reach the worst conclusions possible, but it's always the same people doing these evil, dastardly deeds. So in Loudoun County, for some odd reason, there are school boards which are obviously Democrats, that are desperate and it's a top priority to have transgender bathrooms and or have the access of transsexuals to any bathroom be a policy, And so this is a top priority for them. Who knows why, but Democrats on school boards in Loudoun County have been trying to get either transgender bathrooms and or let transsexuals into whatever bathroom that they want to identify as, And this has been a top priority. So back in June- I guess months ago- there was a situation in Loudoun County where a transsexual individual- a male biologically- went into the female bathroom as a transsexual, allegedly or pretending to be, and raped and raped a girl. Here's here's headline in the Daily Mail: Loudoun County father who was dragged out of woke school board meeting reveals his daughter was raped in the girl's bathroom by a skirt wearing male who was arrested for assaulting a second girl months later. Now so you say, whoa, a second girl. well, I'm jumping forward. So the transsexual, biological male rapes a girl in the woman's bathroom at this school. Now the Democrats on the school board are in the middle of trying to pass the official policy at the school to let men go into the bathroom with women. if they claim that they're women, if they identify as female or have transsexuals be able to go in whatever bathroom they want, just blur the lines of reality. So they covered up a rape for a political purpose. The Democrats on the Loudoun County school board covered up a rape of a girl in the women's bathroom so they could get the policy they wanted passed. And they had the father of the girl who was raped removed from school board meetings because they didn't want that information getting out. because hey, yeah, you're trying to pass policy to let men go into the female bathrooms and you just had a rape. You just had a man rape a girl in the female bathroom Boy. that doesn't work well for that argument. That doesn't work well for that policy push does it? No, it does not. So what did they do? They covered up a rape. Does it get more evil than that? to cover up a rape for your own political agenda? that on its face doesn't even make sense. to want to have boys in the girl's bathroom already doesn't even make sense, But that's such a top priority to you. You cover up the rape of an innocent young girl. And so what happens? The individual that raped the young girl has now raped a second girl in the girls bathroom. Good job Democrats, Good job liberals. on that school board. Because of you and your priorities and your policy, two girls have been raped. How many rapes happened in this country because of leftist policy? How many rapes happened at the southern border and people crossing the southern border illegally in that caravan? How many rapes happened because of the Democrat open border policy? How many rapes are going to happen in female bathrooms because Democrats want men going into them? Well, we know of two at one high school. How evil, how sick, how twisted, how diabolical, how disturbed, how satanic. can we get? Hey, we really want to pass policy at our school to let boys go into the girls bathroom. Hey, a boy just raped a girl in the girls bathroom. Are you sure you want to do that? Uh-oh Well, let's make sure nobody finds out about that. Let's ban the father from speaking at school board meetings. Let's call the local media. make sure nobody reports this and let's bury the rape of an innocent girl so that we can get more boys in the girls bathroom. Okay, whatever you say, Democrats, And then what happens is they cover up one rape. a second rape happens. That's what happens. A second rape of an innocent girl in a girl's bathroom. A girl can't even go to the bathroom in her own high school without being worried she's going to get raped because of Democrat psychosis policy. This should make you sick. This should make you outraged. I mean, this is so diabolical I can't even believe I'm covering it on the air. I can't even. and we know how diabolical these people are. We know how diabolical our politicians are. We've seen the loony left. We've seen the loony tunes, psychotic, disturbed left. But this: you don't even have enough of a soul to be upset that a girl got raped in her bathroom. You put your own sick political agenda ahead of stopping rape of innocent girls- high school girls- in bathrooms. You are seriously disturbed. You are not recognizable anymore as a human. That's demonic. And now a second girl has been raped And we know who is directly responsible. It's that Loudoun County School Board, run by Democrats. You are now directly responsible for two girls being raped. Every media outlet should be on this story making a big deal out of it, But they won't, because all the liberal media wants boys in girls bathrooms anyway. So how many girls have to be raped in the girls bathroom by biological males claiming their females until this becomes a big story? Alex Jones joins me on the line to talk about this outrage. Alex, how do you even cover this? Well, I'm sitting here with my wife and with my older children and my four-year-old daughter at the beach And I just can't help pull myself away because I'm listening to the show and I'm pulling up the articles as you talk about them And I just wanted to call in with the answer to why this is happening. Take the Catholic church: in the last 40 years, you know leftist kind of files got into seminary, got into priesthood and then used higher level groups trying to cover it up because they said, oh, this will bring down the church. So the higher level folks at that time- the others did not come out, were not involved. But this sex cult, this global satanic order, was able to get in and get control because they put their people in. Well, it's just like the Boy Scouts 10 years ago began to pay for condoms, even be handed out to people as young as six at the Boy Scout Jubilees. And I said back then: watch, they're setting it up. It's like the Catholic church. They are going to have massive amounts of pedophilia and just basically a huge homosexual orgy at these big Boy Scout world events. Well, within four years of that happened, it came out that there were thousands of rapes of children and young as six years old, just like they'd done so they would do, including Cub Scouts- by teenagers, by men, you name it. The system sued the Boy Scouts. Now they're bankrupt. Now they're basically shut down, And it's the same thing with every other institution they want to take over. So this is how they put these operatives in. They know that once they do this, there's going to be a bunch of rapes and a bunch of abuse. They encourage male predators to say they're women, to get women pregnant in prison, you name it, saying they're women. They then rape the women. They have been raped to little girls, just like Andrew Cuomo said famously on CNN: hey, if your 10-year-old daughter doesn't like seeing a man's penis, well she's a hate-monger. Because people said on CNN: hey, they're wanting to put full-grown men in the girl's showers, They're wanting to have the male soccer coach, the male basketball coach, say he's a woman in the showers, Because if they get you to do that, you'll accept anything. So this is how they corrupt institutions. This is how they come in and take over groups. Same thing with COVID. They're getting hospitals to go under UN control and deny people life-giving care. The UN is telling them the type of care with a ventilator to then kill them. Then they take $53,000 for each person they intubate. Now that whole hospital chain has been part of the corruption. Now the nurses and doctors are part of it, And that's how you corrupt civilization, That's how you take over society. So this targeting of our children with genderless toys and all of this is saying your children can't be boys or girls, They can't fall their biology. Then the last key- and it's even on CNN today. they admit it- is the phallates and the chemicals in the plastics that make boys feminine and girls go into puberty earlier. That's what genital sizes are shrinking testosterone's way down. Oh, Alice, I've got a story on that testosterone right here. I'm going to cover that. I think that maybe we're the problem here. I guess if a transsexual person walks into the men's room or the girls' room and says, hey, I'm going to have my way with you and you don't want that, I guess that makes you the bigot. I mean the trannies going into bathrooms. I guess they should just be allowed to do whatever they want. Alice, I mean, how dare us Remember the convicted rapist who went into the women's spa in LA and went into the hot tub with the naked women and said: you know, this is my genitals, I want to have sex with you. And the left came out. an antiva came out and beat up Asian people who protested having their wives have a convicted rapist. that basically assaulted them. I mean that's assault when a man comes into a woman's bathroom with a heart on and gets in the bathtub with them or gets in the jacuzzi with the grandmother, the mother and their young daughter who wanted to have private time in a hot tub. So that's what all this is about. It's about them getting in our space, them bullying us. The puppet leaders of nations across the planet are declaring their allegiance to the new world order, and Democrat politicians have been announcing it here as well. That means allegiance to a tyrannical world corporate government established by the Rockefellers through the UN, And they want inside your bodies to put in you what they want when they want, and to have the global digital tracking, COVID passes or vaccine passes to form the backbone of their new world ID. And now their puppet bite has announced the forced inoculation of 100 million Americans to keep their jobs, in total violation of the Nuremberg code. This is criminal and he's lying, saying it's an approved vaccine when they did not approve it. They say that's a 20,, 25, maybe they just expanded the emergency authorization. That's why the two top scientists quit a week and a half ago. Well, you live to see an absolute new world order, world government. If you submit, they will totally enslave you. back in stock, down and out liquid sleep support. It's been out of stock for a while. It's one of three sleep aids. We have it. info or storecom. This one has been very popular. It's sold off the shelves. It's back in stock, down and out. liquid sleep support: This is probably the strongest sleep aid that we have. I would say: knock out, rocket rest. both great comes in pill form. This is the liquid tincture And I think this is probably the most powerful one. survival shield, x2 nascent iodine- This is, if you haven't done an iodine challenge yet, you have. you haven't done the iodine challenge. What are you waiting for? now is the time. super male and super female vitality, living defense plus, and the organic greens fiber caps. We have a limited supply of these right now, but we want to sell them all out so we can order a new batch. It was very popular, The organic green fiber caps, but we have all kinds of other great supplements that are great for so many different things. Take advantage of those. You're listening to the Alex Jones show, All right, ladies and gentlemen, I got cut off by the break. I want to add final pieces of puzzle. Big picture, while all this insane stuff is happening. that doesn't make sense, That doesn't have logic, is that we're being conditioned to be raped. raped with experimental deadly shots that make us sick, that don't help us. Rape with propaganda. raped with the LGBTQ, whatever it is today. raped by all of this corporate culture that runs death camps around the world and is incredibly oppressive, but gives us the new religion that we're bad and we're not good. So we've got to listen to the mainstream media and a tone to them and their priesthood that make up the psychologist, the psychiatrist and the that are on the global side, and the academics and the corporate bankers and the military leaders. This is a ruling class using behavioral psychology against us and training us to accept a new authoritarian nightmare future and overthrowing our Christian values. and a lot of right wingers and people that don't like Israel say we're not Judaic Christian history. No, I mean yes, the Christianity came out of Judaism and the common law that's in there, and also a lot of ancient Germanic common laws, Also Norse law. a lot of our laws come from the Norse, So I really like our Norse law as well. So we have a mixture of those and the locals don't like Northern European law. They don't like Judaic law, Old Testament law, They don't like our Christian ethos, And so it's all being overthrown right now: Trials by juries that comes from the Norse, that comes from the Vikings, that the Norman actually began to introduce that. So this is all being overthrown, This is all being annihilated and they're coming for our children, and now they want to inject our children with something that gives them heart attacks. So when you're just totally kicking- but I don't have this big whistleblower coming on- I just want to remind listeners, because it's everything, It's like gas and an engine, It's like bullets in a gun. without the listeners, We're nothing. We're almost together. Folks, we're fighting hard, You're fighting hard. Just keep spreading the articles, keep spreading the videos, Keep telling folks. the truth lives in m4warscom and freeworldnewstv. And yes, buy a t-shirt, buy a book, get your storeable food. with us, We got the best and lowest prices. Get the supplements. get the DNA Force Plus- sold out for over six months, Now back at stock, so key to your mitochondria, so key to your cells, of all that's going on. Get the X2, get the Winter Sun, get the Ultra 12.. That's all 50% off. by the way, That will end this week as it's almost sold out. It'll be 12: Winter Sun DNA Force Plus. that will end on Sunday because it will be halfway sold out, just because the supply chain break down. So thank you all for your support and we're just fighting hard. We're all being vindicated right now. So now's the time to not send our laurels Push even harder Back to Alan Shroyer. It really is an incredible thing to sit here and see what the future of humanity is faced with, or America is faced with, and just the lack of resistance, the lack of obstacles, making them just railroad us to the point where they can shut down businesses. They can mandate experimental medicine that is unnecessary for most of the population. They can cover up sexual abuse industrial level by Jeffrey Epstein. They can cover up sexual abuse on a local level because they want to have transgender bathrooms. New numbers are now coming out that since Biden announced the vaccine mandate- which doesn't exist, it was just an edict- 4.3 million Americans have lost their jobs. So, like I said, I can't even get through all the news here on my desk that's so important without important news just stacking up on top of it. Now we're going to be joined by a nurse, Danny, who is going to come on and talk about the vaccine mandates and why she chose not to get it and the tyranny happening at hospitals, And I've just got so much more here to cover, including. I don't even know how to analyze this. just give it to you raw. The other day, you may recall I said Kamala Harris just had the weirdest video, the weirdest thing I've ever seen Kamala Harris involved in- which is saying a lot. she's very weird phony individual. Well, now it comes out. that video I was talking about, where she's with children talking about space, was all fake, literally a Hollywood production. every child in that video was a paid actor. What Is everyone at NASA a paid actor? Is everything Kamala Harris does some sort of weird skit? Is anything that woman does real? Is anything our government does real? How can I trust anything when Kamala Harris is paying children to be actors for some weird video where she's talking about space and planets and we're going to space and it's all fake? Everything about that woman- fake, fake, fake, fake, fake. Could you imagine a year ago walking into a bank with your face covered? Could you imagine even going into the grocery store? Do you think they would let you in? Do you think they would be following you in the aisles to make sure that you weren't going to be shoplifting? Could you imagine going up to a gas station and going inside the little mini mart to pay for your gas with a bandana on? How far do you think that would get you? Could you imagine as a teacher showing up to school with a shield that looks like a space alien. Those things are offensive to us because it interferes with normal human interaction. The globalists are running a psychological warfare operation on humanity. Only waking up to the great reset in its tyranny will save us. And the mask is the sign of slavery. We must inform the public that it's a fraud and that it's dangerous and that it causes major medical issues and it's dehumanizing. And the film Covidland does that. Secure your copy now at Covidlandcom and get a free copy of the end game with your purchase. Waging war on corruption. It's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of the info war. And now your host, Owen shroyer. And we are joined by nurse Danny. Very long resume here. I won't get into all of her work, We'll just boil it down. She's worked in the medical field for two decades, Sixteen of them as a registered nurse, And she has decided to no longer work as a nurse, at least for now, In the hospitals because of the vaccine mandate. So we're going to ask her some questions, But we'll start with the basic. nurse Danny, Thank you for joining us. Why did you decide to leave your job as a nurse. What is it about the vaccine or the mandates that made you get to that decision? Well, that's actually a two fold answer. First of all, the medical system as it stands is so broken I could no longer do my job as it's designed to do. And then, secondly, yes, the mandates go against my sincerely held spiritual beliefs, but it also go against what's best for me and my body. I am a recovering vaccine injured person and to add anything more to my body would just be wrong for me. What vaccine was it that you suffered an injury from? The H1N1 and the flu vaccine Interesting. and what kind of health complications did you have after receiving those vaccines? I had chronic migraines. I had total left sided weakness on my body, My tongue paralyzed and it's in my mouth and I couldn't speak for a period of time. And then for years and years, I had neurological issues that no one really could figure out. And it wasn't until I had my last dose of the flu shot many years ago that I put it all together that this is exactly what's causing all of these symptoms. Wow, So they wouldn't even label that as a potential. You had to figure it out for yourself once another vaccine came in and made it all worse. Right, Yeah, it took me about 10 years to figure it all out and reaping my health. Wow, that must be brutal, and yet you continue your work as a nurse throughout that. I also see here that you had a friend who was also a nurse with you that was bullied into taking the vaccine that now has a vaccine injury. Tell us about that. Yes, So she had plenty of reasons, plenty of medical reasons, not to. She went through the medical exemption process, which was a joke. They subsequently denied her medical exemption when she chose to take the shot because she couldn't afford to leave her job. Within 24 hours of that shot, she came down with crushing chest pain, was taken to the emergency room and later diagnosed with myocarditis, And so obviously this was something that she was peer pressured and bullied into doing. Was it the hospital that did that, or what are the tactics- the bullying tactics that they use to get the nurses to take the experimental shot? The bullying tactics really came from enterprise wide. It was a consistent, consistent onslaught of propaganda and coercion from top down, And it was by way of the emails that we were reading every single day, and then it just permeated the culture of our workspace. One of the most outstanding things that I can point to that caused a serious division or an attempt to divide us is the badge tags. These badge tags were to be worn in a very visible area on our badges and it literally said COVID-19 vaccinated, And the language behind that, coming from the higher ups, was that how we know you're safe to be around is when you're wearing that badge tag. That's how we know you're safe While marking you. I mean, I don't need to go into the history of where that type of treatment comes from, but treating you like a second class citizen or even worse. I would say we know where this goes throughout history. I'm curious, though you know- obviously you probably knew you weren't going to get this vaccine- Did you attempt to get any sort of exemption- medical exemption, religious exemption? If so, what happened? I did So because of my medical history. I went for the medical exemption first and then, as they drug out the process, I was advised to go ahead and go for the religious exemption as well. I sat down to write the religious exemption. I had a righteous indignation come over me and it just did not sit well with me that some unknown group of people were going to judge my relationship with God. I just couldn't do it. So, instead of writing my religious exemption, I wrote my resignation letter. And what state do you work in Florida? Is this a common thing in Florida right now? I think my hospital was leading the charge on this, but I'm hearing it trickle down in other areas as well. I'm curious. Let's juxtapose the treatment of nurses from a year ago. Nurses were our heroes, frontline nurses. I mean just the praise all the time, You know. I mean we don't need to go into too much detail. I think people understand what the praise and the treatment of nurses was back then. You were heroes, You were America's front lines, You were dealing with this. And now here we are a year later and you're just being disposed of like there's no big deal to it. How do you analyze that? How do you respond to that? What do you think of that? Well, honestly, when that all happened, I really did feel like it was more of the propaganda and it was the setup for the takedown. So I didn't hold any of that to any large weight at all. I honestly don't view myself as a hero in any stance, before or even now. I am just literally doing what's right And I'm just standing by that. What do you make from being on the inside perspective of this in the hospitals? What do you make of all the COVID madness? What was it like for you last year? What was it like for you this year until you had to resign? It really was a whirlwind of fear-mongering and propaganda really, because if you just put that to the side and use your critical thinking and just assess what was right in front of you, for us anyways in the pediatric hospital, there was nothing to see. It didn't make any sense to cancel surgeries on patients that needed treatment, but we were canceling surgeries. We were working in the ICU during that time, but we weren't taking care of COVID patients. We were taking care of regular ICU patients. None of it really made sense, but I mean, that's what it was. It was just a whirlwind of madness really. Now I'm curious because the media loves to humanize people and turn them into victims whenever it works for a political advantage. I don't see anybody doing that to you. I don't think you're claiming you're a victim, But I think your story does need to be humanized here because you're one of hundreds or even thousands, maybe tens of thousands of nurses that are going through this. What is it like personally for you to have to go through this now? It is really hard. I honestly never thought that I would be put in a position to make this choice. I've wanted to be a nurse ever since I was six years old. I was living out my dream to be a pediatric nurse in a hospital here in Orlando, So to have to choose to step away from that has been really, really difficult. But again, it was the right decision to make, to stand for bodily autonomy, to stand for freedom of choice, for medical freedom for myself and for others. If I'm not going to stand, then who will? Well, we salute you for standing and I know you're not alone and hopefully this is not going to be something that lasts forever, I'm hoping, especially in Florida, where your governor there is trying to stop the vaccine mandates from costing people their jobs, And I think we have an interesting phenomenon approaching us where nobody can cite the law for a vaccine mandate. So how are they able to enforce this without existence of any law? I mean, it's quite a phenomenon here from the dictator Joe Biden, And now he's the scapegoat. We'll be right back with Nurse Danny This week for listeners who know higher food prices are coming and want an inflation hedge. you can actually eat if you want to. gets even better. With your permission and with a high regard for your health and well-being, I also want to send you two pounds of what we think is the single most underrated superfood in the world period. Go to soupbeansurvivalcom- that's soupbeansurvivalcom- and discover the real reason we're giving this unusual superfood away at soupbeansurvivalcom. that's soupbeansurvivalcom. We've got the. ladies and gentlemen, if you sign up for our free news and show alerts, you can then take those alerts, those articles and those live feeds- both the regular shows and special reports- and share them with everyone you know. Take action now by texting the word news- NEWS- to 833-470-0438.. That's 833-470-0438 for info or emergency news alerts. or text the word show to 833-470-0438 and receive live show notifications. Take action now, rate the chain reaction and tell others to share those texts. Get news alerts at 833-470-0438.. It actually makes your telomeres last longer. doesn't make them grow, but makes them last longer in the space of the same thing. So it's as close to the fountain of youth as you're going to get. Well, DNA Force Plus has been sold out for six months, it's back in stock. the highest quality PQQ, CoQ10 and so much more. This entire formula is about cleaning out your cells and helping your body last longer, and that is so incredibly important. We have it at 40% off, despite the effects. that's been sold out for six months at infowarstorecom. It's amazing. If you haven't tried DNA Force Plus, you really should, and for those of you that love it, it's back in stock, 40% off, exclusively at infowarstorecom. DNA Force Plus And now it's available for the general public's use for the first time on the retail market, exclusively available at thebioproscom. You're listening to the Alex Jones show. We're back here on the Alex Jones show, Owen Troyer sitting in studio. We have Nurse Danny with us. I've got a couple more questions from her. We thank her for coming on the air with us to tell this story and we do salute you for your courage. I know you don't consider yourself a hero, but you will be a hero to many, and at least for your courage to stand up for what you believe is right, despite the bullying, is commendable. A couple more questions for you here. Let me just ask you this: What was the internal discussion like, or the internal debate like when it was the realization for yourself and for your other nurses that the vaccine mandates were coming. I'm sure you knew out of the gates you weren't going to take it, but I'm sure there was some discussion, some debate there. What was that like? Well, it was really just like open family discussion. Honestly, that's the kind of culture we had cultivated in our unit. And there were people who were like, oh for sure, I'm going to take it right away, And they did. And then there were people who were like I may take it, but it's going to be at least a year. And then there are people who are on the fence. and then there were a few like me who were an absolute no for it. What was really cool about the whole thing was that we were open to hearing from each other without a whole lot of judgment or criticism, which is a testament to who we are as human beings, because what the hospital was creating was definitely an environment of division, And I'm sure that a lot of information was shared. I'm sure you were sharing a lot of information as well. How did that get digested by some of your fellow nurses? I mean, did they start to rethink the vaccine? Did they start to question it, Were they unwavering? There was a lot of rethinking. I remember a time where we all sat at the nurses station where there was no patience to take care of in that moment And we just had an open discussion And I started sharing about the Nuremberg code and no one knew what that was. And so after I started to discuss with them what the Nuremberg code was, how it came to be and what our rights are underneath the Nuremberg code, you could see the lights were coming on and people who were on the fence started really questioning whether or not that they were going to take it or not. Two decades you've spent in healthcare. Have you ever seen anything like this? I have never seen the red carpet rolled out for a shot like this in my life. No, I have not. My body, my choice. We've been hearing this for decades: My body, my choice, My body, my choice. I won't get into the irony of that statement when it's applied to abortion, But that was a concept that has been brandied about by the left: My body, my choice. All of a sudden, it's the same people that chanted that for decades, telling you you don't have a choice anymore. What does that represent to you? Just more of the propaganda and confusion that that is mainstream media. honestly, How has this experience dealing with, first the propaganda during the COVID year and now all the following propaganda, plus the vaccine mandates, with this rollout that we've never seen rushed before- How has all of this changed or reshaped or made you think about your worldview? Yeah, it really. I've grown a lot in this last two years, having to really question and face the things that I've had to face, And what it's done for me is make me a stronger stand for freedom, a stronger stand for what I stand for, for my beliefs, and it's given me a boldness that I didn't know that I had before. What would you say to nurses that might be tuned in, that are faced with this pressure and haven't had to make the decision yet and are thinking about it- Or I know you're a mother as well- Or what would you say to mothers that are in a similar position here or thinking about their kids? What advice would you say to them? I would say: do your research. Informed consent is not happening. You are going to have to dig and do your own research and then stand together, start to talk to people who are like-minded. You are not alone in this and there is power in numbers. So come together soon and rise up against the tyranny that is this medical mandate. Well, we thank you for joining us. We thank you for your boldness. Believe me, folks, it's not an easy thing for people that have worked their whole careers- Like you said, Danny, it's been your dream job- to just give it all up because you believe in body autonomy. You actually believe in my body, my choice. Some of the nurses made the other choice to get the vaccine. Maybe now they're regretting it. They've had side effects, But we believe you made the right choice, despite all the hardships, and we salute you for that. We salute you for your courage and we salute you for your boldness, for coming on with us today. Thank you, Danny. Thank you All right, There goes nurse Danny- yet another great nurse here. The best nurses are the ones that are getting laid off. Go figure, Of course, nurses that actually care about people's health and care about the truth when it comes to how people need to be treated for diseases or how the media is reporting on diseases. Notice, they are the ones getting fired, They are the ones getting laid off. These are the nurses that we really want and we really need, And these are the ones that the system is purging right now, perhaps intentionally being done- And, by the way, Alex mentioned this earlier and I kind of got into this yesterday with my guest, But here's the headline from CNN: Synthetic chemical and consumer products linked to early death: study finds. Yeah, Our synthetic world, our unnatural world, is literally killing us, And this used to really be at the root of Info Wars broadcasts and political coverage, but we've evolved over the years, and now the audience is so big And these surface political issues are so key to fight back against the fake news on and to expose the truth on that. we've kind of evolved out of that- Just all the unnatural, synthetic things in our planet that are killing us by design. But it's still there, folks. It's still at the very foundation here, And that's why Info Wars forever. really. until Trump wasn't considered conservative or liberal, It was just considered centrist, populist, just anti-establishment, But the Trump shakeup kind of just moved people away from common sense and logic, And so we've evolved with it, though, And now the Southwest Airlines CEO is blaming Biden for the vaccine mandate, says he never supports him. Oh, that's a lie. In fact, I'm pretty sure that the CEO, Gary Kelly, is on the World Economic Forum. Guys, have you looked that up for me? Because this is all coming from the World Economic Forum. So if he sits here and says, oh, I don't know about the vaccine mandates, I had nothing to do with that, I didn't like it. I'm pretty sure he's on the World Economic Forum And so that's just BS. But this just shows that they're going to use Biden as their scapegoat. They're going to use the guy that can't think, can't talk, can't walk, can't even wipe his own butt, And they're going to use him as their scapegoat for all this tyranny and the collapse of the economy and the collapse of the southern border, And just the collapse of America. Biden is going to be the scapegoat. And then the New World Order, World Corporate Government is going to come on top of us and take over And they're just going to say, well, it's Biden's fault, He destroyed America. But this is where you're at now. Yeah, there he is, Gary Kelly. I knew he was on the World Economic Forum. Oh, but he knew nothing. He knew nothing of the vaccine mandates. They're just the ones that write the books about the great reset And they're just the ones that write the books about how they're going to reset the planet with a virus, But he knows nothing. He knows nothing. So yeah, Biden will be the scapegoat, ladies and gentlemen, And it's all by design, All right. still tons of big news to get to when we come back, And don't forget infowarstorecom. Five days left for the big specials we have right now. Five days left for the big specials we have, And a lot of these supplements are selling out as I speak. If you're concerned about the power grid and want to generate your own supply of off-grid electricity, this will be the most important message you'll hear this year. Here's why We now have a small number of solar generators back in stock. These emergency backup systems provide life-saving backup power when you need it most, And, unlike gas generators, solar generators run quietly, emit no dangerous fumes and produce an endless supply of free electricity from the sun. Whether it's wildfires, dangerous weather, power grid issues or just getting off the grid, you'll never have to suffer through painful power outages again. Even better, all this week, radio listeners get over $700 in free off-the-grid bonuses too. Go to mysolarbackupcom to learn more and check availability. That's mysolarbackupcom. Look for the free report: Crisis Cooling- how to make absolutely sure your meat, milk and medicines stay safe and cool in any power outage. Yours free at mysolarbackupcom. So many chemicals in the food and water and so much agitation in the culture and life, It's hard to settle down, It's hard to relax. Well, let me tell you something right now. Down and out is an incredibly strong natural compound. It's got over eight compounds in it that will give you deep, pure, clean sleep And it's such a game changer. So, with all the vitamins and minerals, the last big ingredient is down and out, available again at m4warstorecom for 50% off. And you know what? I'm going to keep it at 50% off until it sells out, even though we've already sold out a half of it in just the last month And we probably are going to have more for about five months. And in the past they created thousands of trillions so that they could leverage that, manipulate markets. but they never allowed that money to get into the general circulation or it would cause massive inflation. Now they've gone ahead and weaponized it and are flooding a sector of the world economy, buying up everything, not to have the companies operate but to actually shut them down and force a collapse of civilization, making the companies they do fund be the only things left-handed. This is the great reset. This is what's happening now. Warn everyone. It's the only way to stop it. I want to be very clear. The fact that m4war is having trouble funding itself is not the fault of our amazing listeners and supporters. It is the fault of the globalists. When we can get enough of our great supplements, other products in, we're able to sell enough of it to stay on air and, quite frankly, even expand in the face of the new world war. But because of the supply chain breakdowns that were very easy to predict for the global lockdowns, we're designed to do that. We have had real problems getting our best-selling products in. Some of them take up to 10 months to get in. We've had to discontinue some of our products because we just can't get the ingredients anymore. It's pretty scary stuff. So please take advantage of sales we're running for one week only. There's only one week left from October 11th for seven days. Kicks off October 11th on things like DNA force plus at 40% off, winter sun at 50% off, ultra 12 at 50% off and more At infowarstorecom. one week left. check out these incredible deals. It is the Alex Jones Show with Owen Troyer, So I wasn't really going to cover this today, but we've got more news out of the sports world when it comes to the vaccine mandates and players rejecting it. But you had a story with John Gruden, who is a famous Super Bowl champion football coach, well known as a great football coach gets along well with the players. He's just now another victim of the left wing hate mob cancel culture And so he was obviously a target. I don't know why I wasn't going to cover this today, but I saw this funny joke and there's other news developing So I thought I'd bring it up. breaking John Gruden identifies as Hunter Biden, So media will ignore his emails And look, I can give you some more details on this. Basically, you've had multiple investigations into football teams like the Washington Redskins that went on for years to try to find racism and they never found anything. There wasn't even an investigation going on into John Gruden. It was some side investigation and they just so happened to come across his emails And I guess they shared him with the media And so now he's canceled because he's a crass talker. We're talking about a sport where you're trained to basically annihilate people, called football. I don't know if you've ever been field level at a football game, but it's like a car crash every 30 seconds. So he's canceled now and we'll see how that goes. Obviously a political target. but in more relevant news, Kyrie Irving is another basketball player now who is refusing to get the COVID vaccine and is being mistreated by the media and by the National Basketball Association, And he's not allowed to work, He's not allowed to practice, He's not allowed to be with the team, travel with the team, just like Jonathan Isaac and others. Total discrimination, total segregation. And so this is the same party that said, oh, it's Jim Crow to have voter ID, which is just standard common sense practice. but oh, that's Jim Crow. By the way, there's the Democrats that wrote the Jim Crow laws, but that's neither here nor there. I guess they don't want to talk about their own history. They will erase their own history, but they don't talk about it- Their history. And so the same people that said, oh, Jim Crow laws having voter ID, are now telling black people they can't work unless they take an experimental medicine that they don't need. So who's really Jim Crow? So you know, I don't know what kind of awakening process we're going to see in the coming months here, but I think one thing has to be undeniably accepted at this point from anybody who's a reasonable thinker or a logical person, And that's that the Democrat party, the leftist, liberal, progressive agenda side of the aisle are nothing but phonies and frauds and liars and deceivers. All they have is hypocrisy, All they have is double standards. This cannot be denied. This cannot be ignored. This is so clearly the case now I think that undeniably, it will be fully recognized by the midterm elections. Now, what does that mean for the elections? Who knows? You saw Biden couldn't get 10 people at a rally, but somehow got 81 million votes. And we do have election news here, by the way, which. let me just segue it with that. Well, let me just start here, actually, and we'll get through the stack of news. So I've always asked this. This has been a number one issue of mine that I don't see anybody else talking about- And that is what in the hell is going on in the Navy? Ships crashing into one another, ships crashing into random objects, ships docking in the South China Sea so China can invade. I mean just insanity going on in the Navy. Who's leading this? What is happening with the Navy? It's out of control. It's not even our Navy anymore. And if it is, it's like they have no real leadership, It's like they're low IQ or something. Oh, here's another one: US Navy helicopter recovered off California. So I'm telling you, man, there is something going, there is something fishy in the Navy. No pun intended, But there is something drastically wrong with our Navy right now. But here's the latest Maryland couple: Navy nuclear engineer and his wife are facing espionage related charges. And it turns out this Navy engineer, this nuclear engineer, who is sharing nuclear secrets, naval intelligence, with foreign countries. I believe that's treason. Well, guess what Turns out? they're big Democrat activists, big Black Lives Matter activists, big anti-Trump activists. Do you see, are you putting the pictures together? Are you putting the numbers together? Are you getting the conclusion? Are you understanding the formula here? Anti-Trump, anti-American leftists in the Navy shares nuclear secrets with foreign countries. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no debate here. The American left is doing anything and everything they can to sabotage and destroy our country. This must be understood, This must be digested, This must be accepted. Everything flows from there. Oh, don't even get me started. in the FBI documents that say Nikola Tesla was in touch with space people. I'm not even kidding, That's an FBI document. I don't know why the crew just put that thing up on the screen there, But that's what led me to that thought. Anyway, a new Nikola Tesla engineer devises UFO patents for the US Navy. Yeah, there's FBI documents that say Nikola Tesla was in communication with space people. but I'm digressing. The point is the left, at the top of the political level and at the bottom to their activist level, are all actively sabotaging the United States, where even Navy nuclear engineers are committing what appear to be treason, selling nuclear secrets to foreign powers. They all do it: Clinton did it, Pelosi does it, Waters does it. All the Democrats do it, Biden does it. They are actively and consciously sabotaging the United States of America because they hate you And they know you love freedom And they know you love prosperity And they know you want to have grandkids that are free and grow up with everything that you grew up with, And so they're trying to destroy it. from the top of the Democrat Party to their low-level activists and minions, They're all on the same energy field: Destroy America, Destroy freedom, Destroy prosperity. We don't care if we destroy ourselves in the process. We will destroy the people we hate, And that is enough. And perhaps this is why the Pentagon's first software chief has resigned, saying the US has already lost to China in the cyber war. It's already a done deal. Yeah, because Democrats are sold out to China, because Democrats work for China. So he's like: why would I go on a team? This is like, if you're a or you could know about the Old World series story with Shula Sho Jackson- Eight Men Out is the name of the movie- where Shula Sho Jackson is the only member of the 1918, I don't remember what's team. It is the White Sox- And everyone else on the team has made bets against their own team. So they were throwing the World Series- Everybody except Joe Jackson. So, but that'd be like you know, Joe Jackson saying: well, I never had a chance to win the World Series. Everyone on my team quit because they bet on the other team. That's what the Democrats are doing with China. They've given up on America, They've sold out America. They bet in China, They're in bed with China. So now people who are in the know at the Pentagon are like: why am I here every day playing this game for America, when all of our politicians have sold us out to China? I'm not playing anymore, I'm wasting my time. And then you have this. You know what I'm going to have to get to this on the other side. It's too important to try to breeze over here in 60 seconds, So I'm going to come back and do a major news blitz in the next segment here And then Paul Joseph Watson takes over folks. Remember info wars store dot com. Five days left to take advantage of these specials. DNA force plus is 40% off, Brain force ultra is 25% off. Down and out liquid sleep support 50% off, Survival shield X2, nascent iodine 40% off, Super male and super female vitality 40% off, Living defense plus 40% off. and organic greens fiber calves 50% off, But we're running low on that stock. We're going to keep it at 50% off, but we are running low on that. So you may want to get your greens fiber caps before we sell out at 50% off. And of course, it's your supported info wars store dot com that keeps us on the air, keeps us ticking, so that we can bring you these news stories. Don't forget about COVID land DVD episode one, on sale at info wars store dot com. If you don't have emergency food supplies yet, what are you waiting for? We have the best at info wars store dot com. It's a massive storefront and I suggest you go there to support us right now. The average person on the face of this incredible planet is still unaware. There's a war between free individuals and nation states on one side and the globalist on the other, who are literally trying to create a post human world. For the United States to Brazil and, of course, triggered by the Brexit in the UK, nations were pulling out of the private corporate, fascist world government. That's why they launched their great recess And they're program, after collapsing us, of build back better. This is nothing more than a top down vertical consolidation of the world economy. Because they couldn't take our guns, because we wouldn't bow, because the left, which is the ideology of this world government system, couldn't win, They released a biological weapon on us. Now we know two years ago. we learned about it about 20 months ago. Except simple, they can't meet us because of our free speech and our guns. So the global corporate combine released COVID-19 and you know. the rest is history. Expose this paradigm and we win. A little more than 20 years ago, Japanese scientists discovered and were able to isolate a compound that is naturally in nature and in foods we eat, but in very, very low amounts. It's called PQQ or bio PQQ. When you have the organic form of it, it does amazing things. It actually makes your telomeres last longer, Doesn't make them grow, but makes them last longer in the space of the same thing. So it's as close to the fountain of youth as you're going to get. Well, DNA Force Plus has been sold out for six months. It's back in stock. the highest quality PQQ, CoQ10 and so much more. This entire formula is about cleaning out your cells and helping your body last longer, And that is so incredibly important. We have it at 40% off, despite the fact it's been sold out for six months at infowarstorecom. It's amazing. If you haven't tried DNA Force Plus, you really should, And for those of you that love it, it's back in stock, 40% off, exclusively at infowarstorecom: DNA Force Plus. Many competitors sleep formulas- focus only on getting you to sleep, but Rocket Rest was specifically formulated to help you feel rested and ready to take on the next day. It uses a unique quick release capsule system to ensure fast delivery of deep sleep support ingredients like melatonin and magnesium. Rocket Rest helps you fall asleep fast, stay asleep and wake up feeling rested. So get the new Rocket Rest formula from Dr Jones Naturals right now at infowarstorecom. That's part of the great reset and part of the global's plan. That's what global lockdowns have been triggered. So we've not lowered the quality of any of our products. That means some of them have been sold out more than six months, like DNA Force Plus. It is 40% off, but coming up in one week it will go back to full price. We probably won't have more for up to six months, ladies and gentlemen. So it's a chance to support the broadcast. You get incredible products at the same time: Winter Sun, Ultra 12,. they're both 50% off. They're going to go back to 10% off in a week as well. They're 50% off right now. Find these and more at infowarstorecom and fund the info world, making your life a lot healthier. All right, let's do a news blitz here And then I'm going to try to play some videos in the first five minutes of the next hour before Paul Joseph Watson takes over. Let's just get down to it here. Amazon developing smart fridge to monitor what you eat. That's right. You'll have a smart toilet. You'll have a smart fridge. You'll have a smart everything that'll keep track of your carbon emissions so that you can be a good slave and get to eat that day and get a nice little small portion of water that day too, because you will now be a prisoner on planet Earth of the New World Order. So it's smart: everything to make sure that you can't live free and prosperous and you will just eventually fade out and die so that the New World Order can conquer the planet and get rid of those pesky humans. California makes it illegal to remove condom without consent and act. They call stealthing. but oh, you can knowingly give somebody AIDS in California, but you take a condom off in the middle of sex. They say that that's not consent and you will be charged. Okay, California continues to get more asinine by the day. For Dave Chappelle, punt lines are: dares. His new special, The Closer, Goes Too Far. Oh, oh, this is NPR. Oh, the left is now upset. The left is now upset because they don't like comedy, because it pokes fun at them and shows how mentally disturbed they are. So they don't like it. But you want to see how really mentally disturbed they are? Go you, flip through the story and check this out, guys. I'm not even kidding. This is a direct quote from this NPR story. Now you know who Dave Chappelle is. obviously a black man. I don't think anybody's denying Dave Chappelle as a black man, right? I mean, last I checked, this is an exact quote from the NPR article. Too often in The Closer it just sounds like Chappelle is using white privilege to excuse his own homophobia and transphobia. What White privilege? So Larry Elders, a white supremacist, Dave Chappelle, now has white privilege. Black men that don't want to be mind slaves to the Democrats and the liberal progressives are now considered white supremacists and having white privilege. Boy, you people on the left, really you really don't see how you have become extremely disturbed. have you Calling black men white just because you don't like their politics? You're messed up in the head bud, Really messed up, And this is going to be an interesting one. We talked about the trans bathroom issue earlier, a very disgusting thing that Democrats are doing in Loudoun County, but it's not just there, It's everywhere. There's going to be an interesting cultural fight between trans and between all these different genders. now This was just someone who identifies as trans, and then this post kind of stirred a conversation. I'm trans and I think only if you transition before male puberty then you can compete, But if you transition after male puberty, get out. So basically, the trans community and the LGBTQIA, ABCDE, FGHI, 29,, 9 or 6, 2 submarine hot air balloon, panda, porcupine, 9 or plus community is going to start infighting about who's the bigger victim and who's really a genderqueer and who's really a two-spirit and who's really a unicorn. you know, donkey, you know, So that's going to be kind of funny and entertaining to watch. I suppose This is just wild stuff. It has to make you question NASA too. Kamala Harris hired child actors to be a part of her widely mocked NASA space video. As fake as Kamala Harris is, this was by far her phoniest attempt at being real that you've ever seen in your life. It was just so weird and disturbing to watch it. Well, now we know why it was so weird: It was literally actors, And apparently NASA does this all the time. I'm wondering: are there any real astronauts or are they all just actors? Maybe the moon was just in a basement in a studio in California. So, boy, that doesn't look good for NASA or Kamala Harris. What an embarrassment hiring actors for some fake publicity stunt video. But it turns out one of the actors is a regular child actor in Kamala Harris' space video, starred in a video earlier this year with Michelle Obama. So apparently, Democrats are always hiring child actors for these videos. Very strange, very, very strange. $100 million in border wall materials rusting away in Texas- Yes, I've seen it just rusting away hundreds of millions of dollars because the Democrats want to have an open border policy for a litany of reasons, So, but now you also have $54 million. last I checked in a private funding account to build the border wall. We already have $100 million of materials down there that we're not using. More money is now coming in to build a wall. None of it's going to happen because our governor is just a lot of talk on this issue, No action. Okay, now into some more news. when it comes to the mysterious complexities, if you will, of the 2020 presidential election. Well, I guess this is one of the people that works for Dominion, or maybe the head of Dominion, Eric Coomer, who said: only idiots voted for Trump, and I'm cleaning that up from the curse words. Eric Coomer admits under oath that Dominion executives share his extreme left beliefs is the headline at the Gateway Pundit. And so these are the people that are running our voting machines that hate Trump and we're supposed to trust them. Okay, got you. And now the fake Facebook whistleblower that's actually a Democrat Party activist has been put in charge of an oversight board. Oh, how convenient. Yes, the fake fake book whistleblower says I have accepted the invitation to brief the Facebook oversight board. Oh, there's a Facebook oversight board. Oh, yes, that's not going to be used to censor out dissenting, dissenting opinions at all. I'm sure about what I learned while working there: Facebook has lied to the board repeatedly and I am looking to forward. I'm looking forward to sharing the truth with them and you know this is going to result in just more censorship. They're just pandering like it's a good thing. Edward Snowden puts it pretty well, I think in this statement. There is something miserable in the figure who enjoyed in their youth the freedom of speech but, from the comfort of age, seeks to deny it to others. some deformity of the soul. That's what it is to deformity of the soul. We are dealing with soul sucked demons and people are really starting to realize how evil this is. Fulton County, Georgia fires. two election workers accused of shredding 300 voter applications. Oh, there's people getting arrested for voter fraud and ballot harvesting and shredding votes and throwing votes away. But no, nothing to see here. No irregularities, It's all fake news. Arizona State Representative Wendy Rogers wants less letters, more arrests. Well, yeah, that's how you deal with criminals: You don't write letters, You arrest them. and that's why we have so much criminal activity in our country: because we just talk about it. We talk about the illegal immigration, We talk about the illegal vaccine mandates and it just continues. Again. Loudon County schools tried to conceal sexual assault against the daughter in the bathroom, against the father, against a girl in the bathroom, so that they could get the transgender bathroom bill passed. Really sick stuff. Outrage after man who stabbed high school sophomore to death and watched him die, then hit the murder weapon, gets acquitted, Wow, Wow. Now can you imagine again if the roles were reversed? I won't even tell you what the racial deal here is, but I bet you can guess. And I bet you can guess what would be the case if the roles were reversed And instead it was Trey Adams who got stabbed to death, not doing the stabbing, And it was his murderer that got acquitted. Can you even imagine? just like the suspected- suspected is the known Texas high school gunman from last week- got released within 24 hours and got a welcome home party, Nice. So there's still political prisoners that don't get bailed, don't get released who didn't hurt a fly. But oh, you shot up your high school, you get released immediately. Oh, you stabbed your high school classmate to death, you get acquitted. Yay, Nice, Thomas Massey is a great American. in Congress He says: end the federal department of reeducation. that's it exactly. or indoctrination, probably better. yet It's time to divorce our children from the federal department of education. And then he has released a statement on that. to abolish the federal government from running our education into the ground is what they're doing. I mentioned this earlier Report. Average 22 year old male has same testosterone levels as 67 year old 20 years ago. How do you figure that? Well, this ties into the CNN headline from earlier. It's the chemicals in the food, It's the chemicals in the water, It's the addiction to porn, It's the lack of exercise, lack of son, video game, head, destruction of men. And so, yes, that is what's happening: Feeding the gods. hundreds of skulls reveal massive scale of human sacrifice and Aztec capital. The human sacrifice party is back and they are now mandating experimental vaccines with no necessary medical reasons that are killing people, And then I guess they'll be put into these camps in Australia called quarantine camps. Maybe that's where you'll find the mass death sites, like you see with the Aztecs. Oh, happy indigenous peoples day. We're going to murder 100,000 people because we're good indigenous peoples day And we're just so woke that the indigenous people were just so much better than Columbus, right? Yeah, Yep, That's the one. All right, I'm going to come back and do the first five minutes before Paul Joseph Watson takes over and I'm going to play a couple of videos here. But there you go, folks, Take this vaccine that's experimental, killing tens of thousands of people, not because you need it, but because we want you to. the COVID-19 face diaper is a symbol of subservience, a symbol of slavery, a symbol of the change that the medical tyranny combine, controlled by the global private corporations, has put in place. It is the symbol of the permanent emergency from which we will never emerge. It is the symbol that we are diseased and evil and bad and must cover our diseased criminal faces from the light of the sun. It is the symbol of our complete and total, absolute surrender to evil. Ladies and gentlemen, we are crossing the Rubicon now. The entire future destiny of humanity is upon us. Klaus Schwab and the UN admit they're coming out with implantable microchips as part of the World ID and carbon taxes. Things only get worse from here if we submit. They only get better if we resist and say no, Noncompliance, noncompliance, noncompliance. People ask me all the time. Alex, the last three months or so you've had explosive energy on top of your already very intense level of energy. What's happening? Well, it's the things that are happening in the world right now. That's got my blood up, But also I've gotten back in the groove of religiously taking three products every single day: DNA Force Plus- it's back in stock. Also X2, deep-growth crystal iodine. that's essential for your immune system, your whole body. And, of course, at nighttime, down and out sleep aid that makes me have deeper, cleaner, restful sleep. that again boosts my immune system and is good for every cell in my body and great for the spirit. All three of these products are in stock. right now. They are 40% off of the case of DNA Force Plus and 50% off for one week only on Survival Shield X2. and, yes, until supplies last, we have down and out 50% off at mfoldwarestorecom. This is their trifecta. I suggest you check it out and experience what this does for your body today. All right, I'm about to hand the baton over to Paul Joseph Watson here in five minutes. but I've got all these videos. I'm not going to be able to get to all of them. I'm going to cover them a lot tomorrow morning on The American Journal. I'll be hosting that. Paul Joseph Watson is going to host the War Room for me this afternoon. But I mean crazy stuff happening in Israel. You've got crazy stuff happening where people that work in the ports, where they can't get the cargo in, are doing videos explaining what's going on. They're paid to promote the vaccine and then got the vaccine. now have Bell's palsy- just massive crime waves happening in Chicago. pilots dying mid-flight, vaccinated pilots dying mid-flight from heart attacks, from the vaccines too. So I just don't have time to cover all of it today. We got to a lot but we couldn't get to all of it. But I will play these two videos, But actually let me play the video. guys, Let's actually do this. This is too big to pass up. Let's play this report in clip seven. American Airlines pilot, fully vaccinated, dies from a heart problem mid-flight. Here it is, clip seven. An American Airlines pilot died in mid-flight- of natural causes, That's according to this morning's autopsy report. The jet was heading early Monday from Phoenix to Boston. The co-pilot took command. when the captain got sick, He made an emergency landing in Syracuse, New York. Chris Van Cleave at Washington's Reagan National Airport has audio of the crisis in the sky. Chris, good morning, Good morning. Situations like this, where the pilot dies mid-flight in the cockpit, are very rare. The FAA says only six or more pilots have died mid-flight in the last 21 years. I bet six will die in the next year. That American Airlines flight. they had no idea of the drama unfolding behind the flight deck door. Medical emergency captain has been capacitated request handling for runway 10 landing. That's the co-pilot of American Airlines flight 550, preparing to divert to Syracuse, New York's airport. All right, are they going to have a way to get into the airplane quickly or do we need to go to a gate? They will have a way to get into the airplane quickly. As long as they have a way to get on the airplane quickly, we'll need them to get to the captain. Thank you. Syracuse police say when medics boarded the plane it was too late. They found the flight's 57-year-old captain, Michael Johnston of Phoenix, Arizona, dead. 147 passengers and five crew were on the overnight Phoenix to Boston flight. The plane all of a sudden started descending pretty quickly and no one really thought anything of it at first. All we saw was a fire truck, CMS, everything out there. We thought it was just sick, but then we found out later on that it's passed. I think the airline's- I know, wait, wait, hold on, I don't know- keep playing the poll, hold on. None of us will know, but that co-pilot did a great job. Johnston's wife, BJ, says her husband had a history of heart problems. All right, that's okay. Let's go ahead and pull it down. Okay, so the crew is telling me this is in 2015.. So I apologize, because Stu Peters and Dr Jane Ruby were covering this and Jane Ruby said she talked to people that worked on that airline and that they told her that the pilot was vaccinated. So I don't know if our lines are getting crossed and I played the wrong report, or if they were covering something else, or maybe they got that information, so I apologize if that's the case. We don't fake news here, so we'll make sure we get that figured out. I wanted to play that anyway, but there you go. So I'm not sure what the case with that is. I was going off of Stu Peters- Jane Ruby report that said that that pilot was vaccinated and died. and they did say he died from a heart problem, but I must have missed the date on that video. So, again, we don't fake news here, That's just the case. So there we go. We'll just pull back from that, Guys, but go ahead. This is definitely from recently. This is clip three: a nurse who was escorted out of her job for not taking the vaccine. Here it is: I'm being escorted out of UCLA for standing up for medical freedom, despite coming to work, willing to work, And I just can't believe that this is what they're doing right now. And I'm going to fight for all of us out there and I will continue to fight. And this is not okay. I came to work despite being unvaccinated, willing to work for patients, to help out staff, And so here's the lesson to be learned here: Oh, nurses, heroes last year, now zeros and treated like dogs and slaves the next year. That's the new world order approach. Oh, yeah, we love you, You're great, You're great And you think you're buddy, buddy with them. Oh, next, next turn of the calendar and all of a sudden, you're the zero and you're getting replaced. We'll be right back with Paul Joseph Watson. And, in addition, we were really finding that we were stressing the cardiopulmonary systems of these employees, Because when you cover the mouth and nose and you exert physical energy during your work, during your tasks, whatever it might be, you're really stressing the cardiopulmonary system because you change the way that you breathe. You have to forcibly inhale and forcibly exhale. That tax is the heart, It taxes the lungs And we have given people heart attacks by allowing them to work with their mouth and nose covered, with absolutely no regulation, no oversight, no medical oversight. The globalists have told us we're a disease. They've told us they want to eradicate us And all the studies show that when you wear these masks it lowers your oxygen level up to one third and gives you dangerous levels of carbon dioxide poisoning. This is a sick cult and we've got to say no. But the only way the real science can sound to the public is if we tell them: get your copy today of COVIDland and expose them. It's covidlandcom, Go there now. Christopher Columbus had a tweet yesterday that caused so many liberals' heads to explode that there were measurements on the Richter scale across the planet. Here was the tweet that I almost spit my coffee out reading. Christopher Columbus was merely spreading diversity. Oh my gosh, that grand old phrase of spreading diversity, Christopher Columbus. it's no good, because we all know what the indigenous people were doing here in the West was much more sane and palatable than what Christopher Columbus was doing or would have done. So, Paul, congratulations. You blew the liberals mind with that tweet and you made me spit out my coffee, but I wanted to salute you for that hilarious comedy. Paul Joseph Watson takes the Alex Jones show over. Thanks Paul, Thanks Owen. Yeah, there was actually a TV show on Irish broadcast television last week where one of the guests celebrated diversity, but he made clear that diversity, specifically in Ireland, meant no white people. He literally laughed and said: white people are going extinct in Ireland and that's a good thing. So if you talk about that in a way in which you ask the question: is importing, for example, the third world into Europe, going to change European countries, maybe in a bad way, then you're an evil racist, a white supremacist, even a domestic terrorist. But if you praise that and say it's a good thing, then you get rewarded. You get invited to Davos, the World Economic Forum. It's a very interesting dichotomy on demographic replacement, how it's talked about, how it's discussed in the media And in fact I've got a story on that as it relates to the French presidential election, which I'll get into later on in the show. Also, we've got an update on Dave Chappelle being cancelled Currently. Netflix has stood by him, despite the fact that pink-haired social justice warriors- pink-haired obese social justice warriors- are literally marching into Netflix headquarters and demanding his cancellation, the deletion of his Netflix special. We're going to get into that later on in the show, though Of course, we're going to start with this little matter of this virus that's been circulating the world for the past 18 months that you may have heard of, And the fact that it's never going to end. people think if they just took the shot, they get back to normal, If they just social distance, they get back to normal. If they took the vaccine, if they wore the mask, they would get back to normal. Doesn't appear to be the case. This is a headline which went up earlier today, while still in phase one of the pandemic. Yale University professor warns. This is Nicholas Christakis, who said in an interview with Sky Television on Monday night to be safe now because with the original strain we could have gotten by within a much smaller percentage, but the virus has become much more infectious, And he basically says that the pandemic is only in the beginning of the end of the first phase and that the pandemic is going to last until at least 2024, another three years at least- Quote- when the world will have suffered a lot more casualties. that seems to have been said with some kind of bizarre fetishist relish. then it would have, with a better exit strategy. And of course he blames the people who didn't get the vaccine. not enough people getting the vaccine, not enough people are complying. So they're going to extend this for another three years just to punish you. But wait a minute. the majority of people in most European countries and now in America have got the vaccine. They did roll over and comply. No, they're going to still wear the mask. They're going to still social distance. in Canada, We see domestic travel being banned for the unvaccinated and they're going to roll it on. They're going to continue it for at least another three years because not enough people complied. Meanwhile in Australia- where in fact I saw a video clip about an hour ago of Kerry chant- That is, the scorning public health official of New South Wales who says you can't talk to your friends and neighbors because it might spread- COVID Now coming out and saying that mask wearing, at least indoors, is going to continue for quote years longer. Bearing in mind now in Australia, in Victoria, in New South Wales, in Queensland and these other states, They're at least starting to lift the COVID restrictions, at least for the vaccinated. But now we see that the plan seems to have a factor of continuance that's going to go on for a number of years. Yeah, headline out of Summit News: Australia building quarantine camps for, quote, ongoing operations. Why are the camps being built? And this one in particular, by the way, is not even going to be completed until next year. So think about that for a second: Trying to lift the lockdown restrictions in Australia, in New Zealand, having admitted that the zero COVID strategy is completely impossible, unobtainable and disastrous, Yet they're building quarantine camps that won't even be completed until next year. If you thought this was winding down, then you can think again. But who are these camps being built for? Well, they asked the officials there in Queensland, and one of the categories of population who the camps were being built for was, quote, those who have not had access to vaccination. In other words, the camps are being built for the unvaccinated, Despite some states tentatively beginning to lift lockdown restrictions. Australian authorities are building quarantine camps that won't be completed until next year In order to prepare for quote ongoing operations and to house those who have not had access to vaccination. This is in relation to a 1000 bed quarantine facility And it's called Well Camp, outside to Wamba, which is an area in Queensland, Australia, is going to be fully completed by the end of March 2022. So you're talking at least another five months time. they're going to roll out 500 beds by the end of December, according to this report, And it's going to be used for domestic travellers returning from COVID hotspots, which again indicates that those restrictions are not going to be lifted anytime soon. The camps are split into different zones and they accommodate singles, doubles and family rooms. Yes, you can stay at the detention camp with your family members- They're nice like that- And they'll be patrolled by police and security guards 24-7.. Queensland Deputy Premier Stephen Miles said the camps were for people who, quote, have not had access to vaccination. He added: quote. we anticipate there to be a continuing need for quarantine facilities, Bearing in mind we had the Yale Technocrat, who I just mentioned before, who said the pandemic, the end of the pandemic, wouldn't even come into view until at least the end of 2024.. They've got a 12-month lease on the land for this new quarantine camp, with an option to extend it for 12 months after that. Another 1000 bed quarantine facility is also being built outside Brisbane Airport. So again, we've seen this massive tyranny in Australia. We've seen pregnant women being arrested in front of their kids for posting about a protest on Facebook. We've seen, as I mentioned before, Kerry Chan talking about people not being allowed to talk to their friends and neighbours. We've seen police brutality on a scale that you haven't seen in a developed country for decades and decades. Australians finally thinking that's going to be coming to an end. No, it isn't. They've got the camps ready for years to come. Meanwhile, over here on Airstrip One Sky News, bearing in mind, here in the UK, or at least in England, the coronavirus restrictions have largely been lifted, at least if you want to stay inside the country. If you only want to leave the country, you've got to jump through 20, 30 flaming hoops, But at least they've been almost entirely lifted in England itself. And yet we see headlines like this: COVID-19 New Year's Eve firework display over Thames in London cancelled due to coronavirus. But wait, there aren't any coronavirus restrictions. Why are they cancelling the fireworks display set to take place on December 21st? We've got football stadiums in this country full of 70,000 people. I went to a sea life marine centre about a week ago which is underground. They ridiculously climbed. They have to maintain social distancing. Everyone's packed in there. The vast majority of people in there weren't wearing masks. It's kind of blown over to a large extent in England Again, because the restrictions have been lifted And yet the annual New Year's Eve firework display over the river Thames in central London has been cancelled for a second year because of COVID. 100,000 people usually attend the event. Again, we've got 70,000, 60,000 people attending football games in central London, in Manchester, in all these other major cities, And yet they're saying the fireworks event to December 31st in October has already been cancelled. Gee, why do you think that could be? Could it be because they're planning another winter lockdown? Surely not. We'll talk about that and more on the other side summit. We'll talk about that and more on the other side summit. I wanted to get past the craziness and find out which plant based substances actually have studies that demonstrate some efficacy in immune support. Now you'll have to sign a waiver, but you can check out what I've discovered at StrongerDefensecom. No cures or treatments there. Instead, little known but shocking immune system research and a breakthrough immune support product based on that research called immune 10X. In the best part, you can go to the StrongerDefense website right now and claim your own supply of immune 10X without paying anything today- Crazy right. Learn more about this unusual limited time offer at StrongerDefensecom. That's StrongerDefensecom. I want to be very clear. The fact that InfoWars is having trouble funding itself is not the fault of our amazing listeners and supporters. It is the fault of the globalists. When we can get enough of our great supplements and other products in, we're able to sell enough of it to stay on air and, quite frankly, even expand in the face of the new world war. Because of the supply chain breakdowns that were very easy to predict- for the global lockdowns that were designed to do that- we have had real problems getting our best selling products in. Some of them take up to 10 months to get in. We've had to discontinue some of our products because we just can't get the ingredients anymore. It's pretty scary stuff, so please take advantage of sales. we're running for one week only. There's only one week left from October 11th for 7 days. Kicks off October 11th on things like DNA Force Plus at 40% off, Winter Sun at 50% off, Ultra 12 at 50% off and more At InfowarsStorecom. One week left. Check out these incredible deals. God created each and every one of us with free will. When we look at the world system now openly announcing the Mark of the Beast, everything that it's attempting to do is built around getting rid of our free will and making us bow down and submit and turn our very bodies, our very productivity, our very genetics, our very future over to them. They want control of procreation, They want control of the relationships between men and women. They want to bring a form of living death to our society and our civilization. All of us were formed and made in God's mind, in God's image and given free will. And make no mistake, all of you alive today were created by God to be alive in this special time so that you could make the right decision in free will and stand against evil And then, for eternity, win the great birthright prize of being aligned with God. Transmitting Worldwide from the summitnewstudios in the United Kingdom, You are listening to Paul Joseph Watson Alongside the rollout of the coronavirus vaccine passport in many different countries all over the western world. of course, the rollout of the QR code, which was initially tied to the NHS track and trace system back a few months ago. that's no longer compulsory, at least in England, But we do have the convenience now of the QR code, which is now being ensconced as the new norm when it comes to table service. when you go to a restaurant or a pub, Instead of having to queue at the bar, instead of having to fight for the attention of the server, the waiter at the bar or at the restaurant, you can just go and sit down, scan the QR code on your phone, get up the menu, select what you want to order and pay for it all on your phone. Very convenient, very convenient. Apart from when you think about it, with the social credit score that we now have in the west and bearing in mind, it's not coming, it's already here. We literally have hospitals in the United Kingdom saying that if you're designated as a racist, sexist or a homophobe, you'll be denied healthcare in the United Kingdom. that was passed last year. We have people in America in now numerous different hospitals being denied kidney transplants because they didn't take the coronavirus vaccine. Well, how far does that go. It's not coming, it's already here. They're going to use the QR code, which everyone is going to get dependent on. In this cashless society, with bars, restaurants, museums, shops, everywhere in major cities banning cash, not accepting cash, that's going to be the only option. But when you've said something spicy- maybe about the next president, Kamala Harris, maybe on Facebook, maybe you've done a tweet which some people deem racist, Maybe you're no longer allowed to own a phone because you're on the social credit score blacklist and then you can't use the QR code. If you have to use the QR code to buy and sell and you don't have the approved mark of the beast, well, maybe you can't buy and sell. The moment is very convenient, but in the future, if you're literally banned from owning a phone, if your cell phone company says: well, you've been banned by Facebook, you've been banned by Instagram, you've been banned by Twitter, why should we provide you service? Just a private company, right, They can do what they want. No cell phone service for you, no phone for you, no QR code access for you. now you can't buy food. It's a slippery slope and it's already here. in terms of literal health care, They're denying people health care because they haven't complied with the vaccine and in fact, we have a headline about that today out of summitnews. Of course, we had the story last week of the hospital in Colorado denying the woman who is in stage five renal failure a kidney transplant, And two more hospitals demand mandatory vaccination before allowing organ transplants. It's all very progressive. Two more hospital systems- the Cleveland Clinic and University Hospitals- have announced they won't perform organ transplants unless both the donor and the patient have received the COVID-19 vaccination. Again, you don't have the option to provide a negative test, despite the fact that people who are vaccinated can still spread the virus and people who have antibodies are 27 times more protected than people who've just had the vaccine. No, the negative test option has been removed, which again goes to the point that it's not about public health. it's about mass compliance. The revelation follows the news of Colorado's UCLH health denied a woman who was in stage five renal failure a kidney transplant because she refused to take the clock shot. Now Cleveland Clinic has followed suit as well, as well as the UH Transplant Institute releasing a similar statement saying it will begin requiring COVID vaccinations for its patient population. So it's not even whether you're allowed to buy or sell. it's whether you're allowed to have health care, and I linked to the article, by the way, from last year in the United Kingdom because some people didn't believe it. They actually passed the new rule in NHS hospitals- government socialized health care- where the nurses and the doctors can deny health care to patients deemed sexist, homophobic or racist, Which, of course you know by this point, is basically anyone. The video I saw earlier today where people- I think it was an NFL game- began chanting F Joe Biden and a woman in the stands complained that that was racist. So maybe in the future, if you criticize Kamala Harris, you'll be called racist because she's what? half Indian, half black. You'll be denied health care. You'll be denied access to the QR code. You won't be able to buy and sell, But it's not mandatory. No. Meanwhile, in Wales, they've just imposed the tyranny of the green past. the vaccine passport based off a completely dodgy vote. We got a video on this- The truth about the Welsh vaccine passport. Let's go to this clip right now. Here it is In what's being called a shambles. the vaccine passport scheme passed the Welsh parliament by a single vote after a Tory representative was unable to log into a zoom call. People in Wales will now have to present their medical papers as a condition of entry to nightclubs and other venues from Monday onwards. All because of a dodgy vote that the government won by 28 to 27,, but one that should have been a tie if conservative member of the Senate, Gareth Davies, had been able to vote. I'm sorry we still have a member who's desperately trying to get into zoos but cannot get into zoos. No, no, no, no. Darren Miller, that is. we are holding the vote. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. What kind of democracy is that? What a f***ing farce. To be clear, if the vote had been 28 to 28,, which it should have been, the vaccine passport scheme would have been defeated. The government would have lost the vote, but they didn't let him vote. No, no, no, no. Some of the blame also has to lie with Gareth Davies himself. If it's such an important issue, which it is, don't rely on technology. Stop being lazy and show up in person to vote. Nighttime Industries Association Wales, which opposes the plans and represents 100 venues in the country, called it a shambles and said there should be an urgent re-vote. A spokesperson said it was a democratic outrage that one MS who wanted to vote and who would have voted against the proposals could not due to a mere technical error. This shambles will cause even more uncertainty for our businesses. After they won the dodgy vote, the Welsh government justified it by asserting that England's going to introduce vaccine passports anyway, Despite the fact that a cross-party committee concluded they'd be discriminatory and should be scrapped, and despite the fact that a similar scheme in Scotland completely failed on the first day of its intended rollout. Remember, they're trying to eliminate the option to provide a negative test despite the fact that people who are vaccinated can pass on the virus anyway, proving yet again that vaccine passports are about enshrining mass compliance while moving the West towards a social credit score system that makes Communist China look tame in comparison. There you have it. that's what happened in Wales. If the vote had been tied, as I said in the video, the government would have lost the vote. the vaccine passport would not have been implemented yet because this one member had a technical snafu and wasn't able to vote. they just went ahead and implemented it anyway, And now, as of yesterday, anyone entering a nightclub or a large venue in Wales has to prove that they've taken the clock shot. Absolute, purebred tyranny. We'll be back on the other side. SummitNews. Don't go away. This is an organization in the United States that promotes liberty at this level, that is not beholden to big corporate sponsors, And they've harassed and almost shut down everybody else. they crippled all the other groups and we're still here And as this whole new world order comes out in the open, our credibility is going up. That's why we've got to be taken off air. That's why America has got to be taken down. You can't have all these other nations enslaved and America is still quasi-free. You can't have Info Wars has been proven right- being on air with all the craziness that's about to unfold, Because if you think stuff's bad now, just get ready. So, thank you all And get an infowarstorecom. Get some great 2020 election shirts, supplements and so much more. They're wonderful products and they support the Info War. Thank you. This is probably the most powerful one. Survival Shield X2, nascent iodine- This is, if you haven't done an iodine challenge yet, have you haven't done the iodine challenge? What are you waiting for? now is the time. Super male and super female vitality, Living Defense Plus and the organic greens fiber caps. We have a limited supply of these right now, but we want to sell them all out so we can order a new batch- The organic greens fiber caps- but we have all kinds of other great supplements that are great for so many different things. Take advantage of those. Everything that's on your phone is paramount. That's why everybody should visit infowarstorecom. We're carrying a huge new line of very compliant, made in America products that have 100% reviews and are simply incredible. It's a 360 win. Protect your privacy and shop at Info Wars to support the overall Info War against the globalists. A true 360 win. Get your Faraday cages at infowarstorecom. Check out the new line. It's amazing. Info Wars emergency supply chain breakdown sale is only running for one week from Monday, October 11th, for seven days Right now. I've been warning you of now for 20 months because that's part of the great reset and part of the globalist plan and that's what global lockdown has been triggered. So we've not lowered the quality of any of our products. That means some of them have been sold out more than six months, like DNA Force Plus, It is 40% off, but coming up in one week it will go back to full price and we probably won't have more for up to six months. ladies and gentlemen, The chance to support the broadcast is going to be incredible products at the same time. Winter Sun, Ultra 12,- they're both 50% off. They're going to go back to 10% off in a week as well. They're 50% off right now. Find these and more at infowarstorecom and fund the Info World, making your life a lot healthier. So we've had a lot of hysteria and fear mongering, as have you over in America, about empty grocery shelves, about fuel shortages, about rolling blackouts. They've blamed the pandemic over in the UK, They've blamed Brexit, despite the fact that grocery shelves in Brussels and numerous other European countries are also empty, And they've tried to make out that maybe it's a temporary thing, but maybe not. Maybe it's a longer term thing and maybe it's part of the new normal. They're kind of shifting out the narrative of blaming the temporary reasons of Brexit, of the COVID pandemic, into socially engineering Americans and Europeans. the empty grocery shelves, rolling energy blackouts, low energy in general, fuel shortages, petrol gas shortages are going to be part of our lives going forward. This is not by accident. This is part of the great reset that they've had as a plan in place for many, many years, And I made a video earlier talking about this. We'll come back and talk about it as it relates to how CNN is covering it on the other side, But here is the video. the truth about the green economy. Here it is. The UK shut down most of its coal plants due to global warming. because fossil fuels are bad and cause global temperature increases, but because there's a polar vortex coming, marked by severe cold temperatures, we won't have enough energy to get through the freezing winter because global warming caused us to shut down the coal plants. If you're trying to figure that one out, don't bother, because it makes no fucking sense whatsoever Being dependent on expensive foreign imports of natural gas simply to heat our own buildings, because renewable energy is completely useless and can't meet the demand. we get a few weeks of the wind not blowing and we're forced into an energy crisis. Wonderful, We're trying to power a nation on glorified windmills and subpar solar panels, while China burns half the world's coal. China is tripling its capacity to make fuel out of coal While we're freezing our bollocks off. And who do the environmentalists? Greta Thunberg, Extinction, Rebellion, insulate Britain- Who do they blame? Where do they say the problem lies With us? zero carbon policies are hurtling us towards three day weeks and pensioners dropping dead like flies with hypothermia, While China emits more CO2 than the United States and every single European country combined. And yet we're still to blame. Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. But electric cars are here to save the day, The problem being, they shut down all the coal plants to stop man bear pig, And now our country can no longer generate enough electricity to meet the demand. Under a new law set to be brought in next year, your home EV charger will be switched off during peak hours to avoid blackouts. The proposed law stipulates that electric car chargers installed at home or at the workplace may not function for up to nine hours a day to avoid overloading the national electricity grid. After the nine hours a day of downtime, authorities will be able to impose a randomized delay of 30 minutes on individual chargers in certain areas to prevent grid spikes at other times. In other words, the government will ration your energy use. deciding when and how far you can drive Doesn't matter how you say. I drive a petrol car, Not from 2030, you don't, because to save the planet, the government is banning them. So no electricity for the electric cars and no petrol for the petrol cars. Guess you'll be staying at home, Kind of like being under lockdown. And to top it all off, we're still being lectured by this eco-mentalist that we're not doing enough- An unelected activist who holds more power in Downing Street than the Prime Minister. she's politically cook-holded. Meanwhile, CNN has created a creepy new phrase before times to normalize the site of empty grocery shelves. Can you see where this is all heading? This is some proper third world shit. Welcome to the Great Reset. Government approved travel hours, carbon rationing limits, food shortages, climate lockdowns, rolling blackouts. Sounds like a barrel of laughs. Also sounds like a technocrat control freak's wet dream. So there you have it. As I mentioned in the video, we've got China, which emits double the amount of CO2 that America as a whole emits. The biggest emitter of CO2 in Europe is Germany, and that's less than 10 times the amount of carbon dioxide that China admits. And who is Greta Thunberg talking about? Who is she chastising? Who is she lecturing? Friggin', New Zealand, A tiny little country which emits an infinitesimal amount of carbon dioxide compared to China. It's a drop in the ocean. It's a drop in the ocean for the United Kingdom, And yet she's lecturing us. We literally have a prime minister who's married to an eco-mentalist, environmentalist, Waco, who's pushing through this green economy, which is a complete disaster. Just look at what it did to Spain: 25% unemployment in Spain due to the green economy, 50% youth unemployment. It's a complete jobs killer. It's a quality of life killer, which is why we see in the UK now petrol shortages, gas shortages, because they've shut down all the clean burning coal plants So we have to import it all from foreign countries. They're talking about a three-day week. They're talking about school kids only being able to go to school for three days a week because they don't have the energy to heat the friggin' buildings, because they've shut down all the coal-fired plants. And yet we're being lectured. We've already shut down the entire industry and we're still being lectured. Meanwhile, as I said in the video, China literally accounts for half of the global coal-burning emissions, half out of the entire world, And Greta Thunberg has next to nothing to say about China. She's lecturing New Zealand because everyone knows China's never going to change And that's why they're going to become the new economic and military power, And yet they're not being called out for their drastically worse CO2 emissions. Of course we know CO2 is plant food. The earth thrived when we had higher levels of CO2 in the atmosphere. but the facts don't matter. It's all about you sacrificing your quality of life while the technocrats can still fly on their private jets to Davos to lecture you about having a bath every single year? As I mentioned in that video, CNN uses creepy, dystopian before times rhetoric to justify empty shelves. This is social engineering, to make you believe that this is now normal. As I mentioned in the article, usually the out-of-stock percentages in US grocery chains- big box stores- are about 7% to 10%, depending on the product. After the pandemic and in recent days they've risen to 18%, they're saying, despite, supposedly, the lockdown restrictions being lifted. that is now the new normal. Questions have been asked of CNN after the network used the creepy, dystopian phrase before times to describe a time, pre-COVID, when grocery shelves weren't empty. So again they're trying to normalize this. they're trying to get people used to this, trying to get people to realize- or to hide it under the rug- the fact that this is how your life is going to be from here on out. As I mentioned in the video, they've literally passed a law or are preparing to pass a law in the UK where the government will ban you from using your home electric charger to charge up your electric vehicle at peak hours for nine hours during the day. Now these electric vehicles can't even travel more than a certain distance because you have to constantly charge them over and over again Now for half of the day during the daytime. that's going to be banned entirely, and they're banning petrol and diesel cars from 2030 onwards. This is the great reset. This is the total control of your life, taxed by the mild surveillance tracking to make sure you don't go over your carbon emission allowance. This is about engineered scarcity. This is about absolute technocratic control of your life. As Robbie Starbuck tweeted, they say that before times like COVID is equivalent to Jesus: absolute lunatics. Harrison Crank said- interesting way of saying- we will have food shortages in Joe Biden's America. Another respondent warned CNN would use the term to distract from the Biden administration's incompetence and blame any problems on the pandemic. Interestingly, that tweet has been deleted, which happens a lot of the time when I embed it in an article. sometimes it says this account has been suspended. Another respondent said they are laying the narrative groundwork to prepare you for a world of shortages, scarcity and incompetence. This isn't an accident. That's precisely what it is. Seeing empty grocery shelves isn't something that should happen in Europe or America. This is third world crap, and the fact that they're trying to normalize it should be a massive red flag. I don't like coming to you and saying this could be our last broadcast. Hell, I've been on there 27 years and only the last year or so have I said that. But let me tell you, the New World Order is breathing down our neck. The big globalist publications are coming after us and they're doing everything they can to shut us down. So please pray to keep M4 Wars on the air and please support the local station you're listening to as well. At the same time, go to infowarstorecom while you still can, and get a book, get a film, get a t-shirt, get some supplements, because it's that money that helps us stay on air. in the face of this thing, I need your help more than ever now. I want to keep fighting the globalists, but I can't do it if you don't support us. So pray for us. word of mouth, tell folks about the broadcast, however you can, and buy great products that will enrich you and your family's lives every day at infowarstorecom, Whether it's high quality coffee or supplements, or books or films. all of it nurtures the soul, all of it empowers humanity. all of it is pro-human and pro-God. Thank you so much. A little more than 20 years ago, Japanese scientists discovered and were able to isolate a compound that is naturally in nature and in foods we eat, but in very, very low amounts. It's called PQQ or bio-PQQ. When you have the organic form of it, it does amazing things. It actually makes your telomeres last longer. It doesn't make them grow, but makes them last longer in the space of the same thing, So it's as close to the fountain of youth as you're going to get. Well, DNA Force Plus has been sold out for six months. It's back in stock. the highest quality PQQ, CoQ10 and so much more. This entire formula is about cleaning out your cells and helping your body last longer, and that is so incredibly important. We have it at 40% off, despite the fact it's been sold out for six months at infowarstorecom. It's amazing. If you haven't tried DNA Force Plus, you really should, and for those of you that love it, it's back in stock. 40% off, exclusively at infowarstorecom: DNA Force Plus. In late August, infowar saw an explosion of orders because our audience understands that the globalists are destabilizing the planet by design and are attempting to cause an economic and financial collapse worldwide. Now, ladies and gentlemen, storable food has always been something that's important to have. It's a checkbox that everybody needs to have taking care of, right along with water filtration, self-defense and a relationship with God. But now more than ever, you need to get your storable food orders in Now. we're ready to ship to you within 24 hours of your order. It's high quality. It's very, very low cost at infowarstorecom because in the future, you're going to see more food supply shortages and you're going to see food supply price increases- that are already taking place. So lock in your storable food now at a lower price and fund the infowar at infowarstorecom. That's how you fight. the great reset is by being self-sufficient and not under their control. So get prepared now. at infowarstorecom, We have had real problems getting our best-selling products in. Some of them take up to 10 months to get in. We've had to discontinue some of our products because we just can't get the ingredients anymore. It's pretty scary stuff. so please take advantage of sales we're running for one week only. There's only one week left from October 11th for 7 days. Kicks off October 11th on things like DNA Force Plus at 40% off, Winter Sun at 50% off, Ultra 12 at 50% off and more. At infowarstorecom: one week left. check out these incredible deals. You're listening to SummitNews with Paul Joseph Watson. We're live in this final segment and we are pushed for time, so we're going to dive into this Dave Chappelle Netflix special issue because there are some updates on it. This new special, The Closer, came out at the end of last week. What most people don't know if they haven't seen the whole film, is most of it is Dave Chappelle basically genuflecting and prostrating himself to the LGBT movement, But there was two jokes that he made against them and that's what the controversy is based around, because, of course, they can't take a joke because it threatens their power monopoly- Many such cases throughout our history of dictatorial movements that can't be made fun of because it threatens their very core. I'm going to come back and talk about some updates on this story, but first here is the video: Dave Chappelle versus The Mob. Screeching far-left mobs are lobbying Netflix to delete comedian Dave Chappelle's new special, The Closer, claiming it's transphobic. Wait a minute. what did Chappelle say? He must have been really bad, right? This is a fact. Every human being in this room, every human being on Earth, had to pass through the legs of a woman to be on Earth. Oh my God, I'm literally shaking. He said what Gender was a fact? No, cancel him. Civil rights groups and irate Twitter activists reacted with a perfectly calm and measured response by claiming that Chappelle was inciting the mass murder of transgender people, With 2021 on track to be the deadliest year on record for transgender people in the United States, the majority of whom are black transgender people. Netflix should know better. Really, Have more than a quarter of transgender people tried to commit suicide because of Netflix comedy specials? Or is there another reason for that figure being so high? Jacqueline Moore, who stars in Netflix's series Dear White People, threatened to stop working with Netflix as long as they continue to put out and profit from blatantly and dangerously transphobic content. making fun of white people for their ethnicity remains perfectly fine though, Dear Dave Chappelle. transgender comedians can take a joke, but why are you so unfunny? Can take a joke. Yeah, normally people who can take a joke don't literally lobby to ban jokes about them. Meet the new Dave Chappelle: misogynistic, anti-trans and socially irresponsible. And there I was thinking. comedy was about being funny. Now it must amplify the deranged identity politics activist dogma of the mob or they'll organise to have it censored. You know, because they're so good at taking a joke. But how did the general public respond to Chappelle's new special? 96% positive audience score on Rotten Tomatoes. Read it and weep losers. Dave Chappelle has lost his way. He doesn't look like it. Oh, but the mainstream critics don't like it. You mean the same mainstream critics who formed over Cutie's a literal pedo movie, while claiming that Joker was slightly above average. at best, They gave Chappelle's previous special the same treatment, but the ordinary punters still loved it. Given that they banned audience reviews of the Fauci propaganda movie entirely, I'm surprised they didn't do the same to Chappelle. Can't get any bad reviews if you don't allow reviews. genius. Part of the backlash to people like Chappelle and Ricky Gervais, challenging the increasingly monopolistic cultural power of the alphabet people, is woke comedians asserting that they're punching down and attacking helpless, underrepresented minority communities. Take a look at this example from British comedian James Acaster who, despite not being funny, has been lavishly rewarded with a big mainstream platform. They walk straight on stage top of their specials, sometimes do ten solid minutes just slagging off transgender people. Oh yeah, because you know it's been long overdue a challenge. the trans community- Oh, they've had their guard down for too long. if you ask me, They'll all be checking their privilege on the way home now, thanks to you, your brave little sis boy. The entire foundation of this joke is based on the premise that the LGBT lobby is some kind of persecuted, anti-establishment underground resistance movement. Now that is funny. In reality, the LGBT movement is the establishment. Their flag is literally flown over every government building and cultural institution, and now even outside US embassies. The trans flag literally flew over Parliament Square in London for an entire month this summer. Because what could be more edgy and anti-establishment than having your colours proudly displayed in the capital city of a major country by the royal institution of chartered surveyors? Oh my God, so edgy. In the UK, you can literally be arrested and thrown in prison for making playful jokes about trans people. A 50-year-old mother in Scotland was charged with a transphobic hate crime after she retweeted an image of a suffragette ribbon. People face scorn, intimidation and harassment. Familiarly insisting that women's spaces in sports shouldn't be dominated by biological men, Glenn Greenwald was savaged by Twitter mobs merely for discussing the results of a Gallup poll on trans identification. In the UK, our two major establishment political parties are afraid of using the word woman for fear of offending the trans lobby When your movement has the power to control thought by changing language, When you can rely on the power of the media to dehumanize and destroy your critics while relying on the power of the state to have them arrested, That kind of suggests that you're not an oppressed minority group anymore and that, in fact, you are the establishment. There are some people that should be afraid of you, and that they are. because I represent moderation and diversity. I have power. They can't take it away from me. So no, people like Ricky Gervais and Dave Chappelle aren't punching down. if they make a joke about trans issues or express an opinion on gender, They're punching up. These groups wield enormous political, cultural and sensorial power. They are the new establishment. Now, let's be clear: just like JK Rowling, it's not like Dave Chappelle's- some right-wing bigger is it? Last year, he devoted an entire Netflix special to George Floyd, BLM and the history of slavery. Chappelle has made fun of white people, black people, everyone You know, like comedians are supposed to, which just goes to show. you take on these people merely by cracking a joke about them and you're in the firing line. No matter what you do in your artistic expression, you are never, ever allowed to upset thousands of people. But here's the good news: Despite Chappelle being viciously targeted by an extremist minority mob, a faction which, despite being relatively small in number, can rely on the institutionalized protection of government, the entertainment industry, Silicon Valley and even the military-industrial complex, Chappelle's view is shared by the vast majority of sensible people. By daring to be a voice for those people and by proudly proclaiming himself to be Team Turf, Chappelle threatens to disarm their power monopoly, And that's what really threatens them. I'm Team Turf. I agree. I agree, man Gender is a fact. So there you have it, and we have updates on this vital, pressing cultural issue. today, Post-millennial reports, Netflix fires three employees who tried to force their way into an executive meeting over Dave Chappelle's alleged transphobia. And again, I've seen other clips of this special and people who've watched the entire thing have told me He spends half of the special genuflecting and basically bigging up transgender people and saying he doesn't want to offend them, he loves them, And then there are two little segments where he has a little poke at them and basically says: no, people should still be able to argue that biological gender exists And they've literally had purple-haired, obese social justice warriors, as you can see in this article, try to force their way into an executive meeting where the company discussed how they should handle comedian Dave Chappelle's stand-up special. The good news is that Netflix stands by Dave Chappelle after calls for censorship. This is out of ReclaimTheNetorg, in a rare win for free speech in the current online climate. Netflix co-CEO Ted Sanderos said that the Dave Chappelle special released last week will not be cancelled because of autistic freedom, Bearing in mind that people like Dave Chappelle and Ricky Gervais are, because of their massive platform, kind of privileged outliers. the vast majority of comedians, the vast majority of political commentators who poke fun at the alphabet. people who try to argue with them are viciously defamed or pursued on social media or demonized or monstered. In some cases in European countries are literally arrested by the police. So Dave Chappelle is going to be fine, Ricky Gervais is going to be fine. The people who don't get that kind of media attention on going to be fine, and that's where the battle really lies. Meanwhile, we'll go through a few rapid-fire headlines here at the end of the show: Ryan Bowman, Shrewsbury Town striker, in hospital after heart palpitations. He is a footballer in England. Mysteriously, a 29-year-old, healthy, fit athlete suffered heart palpitations in the middle of a match. Gee, I wonder what happened there, Wonder why that happened. Meanwhile, a quarter of football league players say they won't get vaccinated. That's a very big problem because of course they're high-performance professional athletes. They are obsessed with health and fitness and what they put into their bodies. If they're not being the example for how everybody should take the coronavirus jab, then that is a big problem for the establishment. But there are still many holdouts, including people in the NBA. Brooklyn Nets ban Kyrie Irving from playing until he gets the COVID-19 vaccine. We've seen a lot of eloquent NBA players speak out of why They have a greater chance of having serious complications than the vaccine compared to the virus itself. That's it for the show. Coming up is War Room SummitNews right here. This is the Holy Grail of tyranny. This is the takeover, and humanity better wake up and say no. You'd have to be hiding under a rock not to know that vitamin D, vitamin C, zinc and other essential vitamins and minerals are essential to our bodies, to our immune systems. We don't have them, long-term, We die. But what a lot of people don't know is, even if you have those compounds, the levels that are recommended, if you don't have deep, restful, clean sleep, your body will fall apart even faster. And with so many chemicals in the food and water and so much agitation in the culture and life, it's hard to settle down. It's hard to relax. Well, let me tell you something right now. Down and out is an incredibly strong natural compound. It's got over eight compounds in it that will give you deep, pure, clean sleep, And it's such a game changer. So, with all the vitamins and minerals, the last big ingredient is down and out, available again at m4warstorecom for 50% off. You know what? I'm going to keep it at 50% off until it sells out, even though we've already sold out a half of it in just the last month And we're probably going to have more for about five months.It's Tuesday, April 5th, the year is 2022.. I'm Alex Jones, coming to you from Connecticut. Owen Stroyer is about to be taking over from the ATX here in just a few minutes, and I've got several extremely informative reports coming up in this hour as well that I taped earlier. But first I want to make this perfectly clear: We warned the world four and a half years ago, when I got de-platformed, de-banked and persecuted at communist Chinese levels, that the reason I was being demonized was because M4 Wars was seen as a symbol of the American populist and a symbol of resistance worldwide. And if we continued to succeed, 1776 worldwide would occur, with people declaring their independence against the World Economic Forum and the globalist New World Order. That's why I'm enemy number one, And understanding why I'm enemy number one is the key to bringing them down. And supporting and keeping us on air is critical, because the enemy is obsessed with destroying us and taking us off air so they can steal our identity and misrepresent who we are worldwide and kill the idea of the American rugged, individualist and populist. So we are all at the tip of the spear. The viewers and listeners of the show are so precious. We told you first they came for Alex Jones, then they came for everybody else And now here in Connecticut with literally kangaroo trials where I can't defend myself and I'm already guilty when it goes to the jury. They are literally setting the precedent and bragging to get rid of populist and conservatives and veterans and police officers, and you name it due process. So this is an authoritarian reign of terror taking place to shut down free speech and silence opposition. So this is the next level of the takeover is now physically bankrupting people and putting them in jail for their speech. Look at the January 6 people, some of them totally peaceful, still in jail, But Kamala Harris was bailing people out that were burning down people's buildings, including attacking federal buildings of Molotov cocktails. That's all mostly peaceful and good, But when conservatives walk in the Capitol peacefully, they get arrested. This is the new world order future, where the prisons are emptied of criminals and filled with good people. This is the judicial tyranny and that's why, now more than ever, you must override them with your word of mouth, spreading this live feed, because it is the tip of the spear, It is the bat signal fired out to humanity. to awaken and say no in full words is the standard of resistance. You are the standard of resistance, and that's why our work is so critical. I am honored to be enemy number one. I am honored to have the enemy come after me first, But understand, as Trump always says, they're trying to get through me to get to you. So please keep us on air, keep us in your prayers and financially support us at infowarstorecom. Owen Schroyer takes over. All right, ladies and gentlemen, and we will be hearing from Alex. He's already filed some reports We're going to be airing through the transmission here today on this Tuesday, April 5, 2022.. We've also got a great guest coming on who was one of the first people to break the story about the biolabs in Ukraine, and we're going to get his take on the biolabs: Russia targeting the biolabs, the Biden involvement in the biolabs and all of that. And then here's what I have on my desk before we come back when the Alex Jones report. Big news is breaking when it comes to the election theft that took place in 2020, the presidential election theft. We've got big breaking news on that. There are some developments in the Russia versus the globalist narrative and that's what it is. Yeah, you have Russia going into Ukraine and they've got their agenda there, but then you have the globalist agenda that's anti-Russia, and they're making moves right now, just stealing Russian's property, just saying, oh, you're a Russian billionaire, we're just going to take all your money, we're going to take your property, just oh, okay. So that's the globalists doing that. Here's a slew of news stories today discussing mental health in this country and what's going on with women and children. Ah well, what is the left targeted more than anything else culturally in this country? the women and children. Why are their suicide rates and mental health rates skyrocketing? Because that's what liberalism is: it's a mental disorder. We do also have some COVID news, some just incredible political news When it comes to what Biden and Harris are up to. it's really quite an embarrassment. All that and more coming up on today's Alex Jones show. In December of 2021, Info Wars offered the first in a three-part series, the 1776 Anti-Tyrant Coin, and it sold out in 10 days. And if it wasn't for listeners getting this original powerful coin, a founding member coin, we would not be on air today. Now the second coin, the Liberty Tree Coin, is being offered and it will probably sell out in 10 days again. It certainly needs to in front of operation. It is so historic and it has a quote from Thomas Jefferson about the Tree of Liberty being refreshed with the blood of Patriots and Tyrants and more. See the coin for yourself at 1776coincom. It's also at infowarstorecom. It's amazing. There's only 10,000 of them And, as a founding member, if we're able to stay on the air, we're planning something very, very special for everyone that helps us go to the next level. So get your new Tree of Liberty coin while you still can at 1776coincom. Government, buy the people off the people for the people, But the people are retarded. So let us say: government, buy the retarded for the retarded off the retarded. Even the famous cult leader, guru Osho, understood the danger of the mad how of pure democracy that the author of the Declaration of Independence, Thomas Jefferson, warned the world about. In a republic, you generally have two parties so that the people can balance power between those. You try to separate the government into different factions. in our country You have the legislative, the executive and the judicial, And it is that separation of powers that stops cults or gangs or organized crime, syndicates or dictators, oligarchies, to be able to get control, Because you don't just split up the federal government into three branches. You then separate federal and state power, And then you have state and local power, because it all comes from we, the people. It's all designed to stop the type of tyrannies that have been seen destroying amazing civilizations throughout history. And so when we see what's happening in the world today under radical leftist bullying, it's mega corporations coming in and taking over governments, getting their politicians and operatives into place, who swear allegiance to the code of the Davos group, which is the Bilderberg group. Klaus Schwab heads up both, And their goal- you're now seeing it- is a post-industrial world feudalism, making you very, very poor, And that's just the people that are allowed to survive. They want at least a 90% population reduction. Then the globalists have their private jets, their huge estates, their fabulous wealth. They enjoy all the technology, They enjoy all the medicine, They enjoy the culture. You get starved to death and killed. So this is really the issue of our age And this is the issue for all of human history, now, if we allow ourselves to go under this incredible tyranny. Just a few weeks ago, former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright died, And the media around the world celebrated her as just the most wonderful thing ever, because she was the first Secretary of State who was a female. But if you look at what she actually did. she supported wars, She supported sanctions that killed millions and millions of people And just in Iraq, it was estimated by the UN- 500,000-plus children just under the sanctions that she put on Iraq during Bill Clinton's administration. Herbert Walker had already put some sanctions on them, But the Clintons tripled it at her suggestion and they wouldn't even let basic antibiotics get into the country and a half million children died, And she famously said that it was a good price to pay. We have heard that a half a million children have died. I mean, that's more children than died in Hiroshima- And is the price worth it? I think this is a very hard choice, but the price, we think the price is worth it. It's important, on this April 5, 2022, Tuesday broadcast, to pull back at a 35,000-foot view and ask yourself: why is the entire leftist media, the corporate media, from Japan to Europe, to the UK, Australia to the US, praising this woman two weeks after she died? It's still all over television, It's still all over the newspapers. why? Because they're rewriting history, ladies and gentlemen, while they pick out other individuals and groups who they want to villainize, who they want to demonize, And it's only when the public has very short attention spans and doesn't know about history, that they're able to be manipulated with this information. Here's a case point example: If you go out and ask the general public about Sandy Hook 10 years ago- a bunch of children being shot to death in Sandy Hook, Connecticut- people are going to say: Alex Jones, Believe me, I'm Alex Jones, I experienced it on the street. Some people walk up to me and say: you killed the children. That's mind control. That's a dumb-down population. But that's how the Democratic Party in Hillary Clinton five years ago, six years ago, when Trump was winning, got upset. They knew that I was leading a major populist movement. They said: what do we do? Well, we look at Jones' history, things he's covered, things he's questioned, And we make him the Sandy Hook man. And then, any time people talk about Alex Jones, we get to bring Sandy Hook back up and go after everybody's guns again. But, more importantly, use the attack on Alex Jones to set the precedent to then take people's free speech away. And again, this should only be done with an extremely dumb-down public. And so what's happened is we don't have a separation of powers to a great extent anymore And we have the judicial branch that is becoming its own tyranny and that is engaging in any type of activity they wish because there's no real checks and balances on them. So when you have the perfect storm of a dumb-down, historically illiterate population with mega-corporations that are extremely predatory, you get a perfect storm of what they call technocratic tyranny, And that's what this whole cashless society, programmable money systems that are being announced and the world government that's being announced is actually rolling out right now. Now, remember that same corporate media for decades told you world government doesn't exist, new world order doesn't exist. there's no Bilderberg group. and now it's all out in the open because they're going from beta accelerating into operational, and everybody needs to be concerned about this going into operational, because its plan is at least 80% depopulation by 2030, and you can see how that's now beginning all over the world. So humanity must become the checks and balances again. we must identify who the enemies are, we must understand how they manipulated us and we've got to say: why is Marilyn Albright a hero when she gave the orders to kill a half a million children and sat on TV? she was proud of it. How is George Soros, the admitted Nazi collaborator that bankrupted more than 20 nations systems and stole old people's pension funds, How is he a hero? but Alex Jones is bad. This is bigger than Alex Jones. but just think about the power of the corporate media to demonize someone for questioning events when there's been so many staged events in history and that's the ultimate crime is questioning the official narrative. but when you actually kill a half million children deliberately, it's now a good thing. That is nothing less than mind control. So when we see men posing as women wearing admiral outfits and men in women's wrestling choking out women, and when we see open borders and we see the Supreme Court justice nominee- since you can't say what a woman is- and we witness the devaluation of our currency and all of this- this is the checks and balances of good people not being involved, being removed, and into that vacuum comes all the tyrants, all the criminals, all the evil people. Thomas Jefferson was asked what is the level of tyranny humans will live under, And he said: it is the level to which you will accept. There's always someone more evil to come into the vacuum when good people don't stand up, and so it's accelerating. it's getting worse and worse by the day, and people have to understand that being lazy, not being engaged, going along with political correctness is basically sucking the oxygen out of the room and it's going to destroy us, and that having courage and questioning and being involved and standing up against censorship is the answer. There's an article on infowordscom today by Paul Watson, where the Big National Museum of Art in the UK is changing the names of art, taking any names that basically say Russian off of them. We have to decide who we are and what we stand for. We're going to lose our entire culture, our entire civilization. it really just comes down to that. It's the decision that all of us have to make, because things are only going to get worse the more we live in denial. It's only going to get better by standing up, doing the right thing. Some of us will be demonized who are at the tip of the spear. that's okay. I volunteered for this because not standing up and being a total slave is a fate far worse. We are only offering three coins in the series. The first coin was released in December of 2021 and sold out in 10 days. Now the second coin, as we enter the last days of March into April 2022, is now being offered and I believe it will sell out in just a few days again, because these are historic coins and because our amazing listeners want to support freedom and keep info wars at the front lines of the fight against these tyrants. So go for yourself to 1776coincom and see the new Liberty tree coin. It is powerful. Witness this powerful iconography for yourself and have this piece of history and be part of the founding member system that we're set to launch in the very near future, Thanks to your support of this project. get a historic memento that helps keep info wars on the air and also gives you a real piece of history at 1776coincom. Ladies and gentlemen, info wars storecom is offering the biggest sales in its over 20 year history, and that is because the economy is breaking down, inflation is exploding, the supply chains have broken down and info wars is having serious trouble making its payroll and paying for operations. and I do not want to implode or downsize in the face of the globalist making their main move. Info wars- its paradoxical- is more popular than ever. it is reaching more people than ever, despite the censorship. but because of cost increasing and having to run our own infrastructure and pay for our own bandwidth- everything else- we are running out of money. So listen- up to 75% off at info wars storecom on things like amazing patriot t-shirts that help spread the word and fund the operation, on supplements on books, on films. everything is 25 to 75% off right now- the biggest sell in our history at info wars storecom. Thank you for your support Introducing the newest product from info wars lifecom. we are so proud of info wars life immune support. It is concentrated herbs that are known on record to supercharge our bodies natural defenses. Ladies and gentlemen, this is something that is essential and everyone should get. and on top of it, it funds the info war. so that's the 360 win. Let me tell you what is in this amazing product: Concentrated elderberry, concentrated echinacea, concentrated astragalus root, angelica root, loatium root and more. This product is incredible. Info wars immune support, exclusively available at info wars storecom, is funding the tip of the spear, the info wars operation. It is a 360 win. The only way you fail is by not taking action and getting this product to boost your body's natural defenses and keep info wars on the air. The globalists are hoping you don't take action. Take action now. info wars storecom. We here at info wars are proud to announce the first ever kava kava root supplement that is now available at info wars storecom. Kava is one of the hottest new breakthroughs in the natural health world. today, though, it has been used for hundreds of years in the pacific islands for its relaxation and euphoric effects. According to ancient simoan legend, kava was given as a gift by the sun god tagaloa, who they considered to be the supreme ruler and creator of the universe. The simoan people would drink kava tea during social gatherings and sacred ceremonies to loosen up a little. Nowadays, kava is used around the world by many who enjoy its serious benefits. The new kava chill by dr jones naturals contains a full blend of not only kava kava but other herbs, including, but not limited to, german chamomile, organic skullcap and ballerian root. We do expect to sell this new product quickly, so be sure to secure yours by visiting info wars storecom. Pleading of frontal assault on the lies of the new world order: it's alex jones. We are back on this special Tuesday April 5th edition of the alex jones show. Thank you for tuning in and again thank you for spreading the word about the broadcast. You are the power that takes this information to the next level. You are who is able to override big tech sensors and the globalist who are fighting tooth and nail to suppress the voice of the people. So together we are going to defeat these globalists, and I again thank you all for taking action and realizing how important your word of mouth is to override your tyranny. Separately, I want to remind listeners that we are fighting the globalist at point blank range with every ounce of energy and will and finances we have, and without you we will not be able to continue on. Plus, we have great products at info wars storecom. Take advantage of them now. Palm and block has been sold out for 11 months. It is a natural system that is wonderful for allergies and hay fever and so much more. It is now back in stock and, despite the fact it has been sold out for a year, it is 40% off at info wars storecom, right on time for spring. Also, we are going to sell out by Friday or so at current sales of the new 1776 coin. It is a three part series. It is limited edition. There will only be 10,000 of this coin made. there will be 10,000 of the next coin made and then that is it, the three part series. It is a founder coin, meaning it is being used to really energize our operation and ensure that we are not taking off the year. and then everybody that does become a founding member by buying the coin. if you put your email in when you get the coin, you will be sent in the future, very near future, a lot of really, really special, exclusive things, unless there is a nuclear war or I get assassinated or put in prison and taken off the year. But if we are able to keep fighting, founding members will definitely be pleased. And then, finally, there is a lot of other great products at infowarstorecom. but we were doing a lot of accounting, trying to find money to pay the payroll and they are like: hey, Alex, we keep telling you keep designing new shirts all the time but never really promoting them. so some shirts sell, some don't. but we have 63,000 shirts and it just sell them at cost and we will move about the door and then only have a few shirts that are limited edition, here and there that are popular. that way we don't have half the warehouse full of stuff. it is killing us. We are absolutely right and the listeners have really come through. we started this special deal on Wednesday of last week and we have now sold 13,000 t-shirts as of this morning. So 13,000. we are down to 50,000 t-shirts thanks to you. these are limited edition. they are never going to get made again. some of these shirts designs are 25 years old. like the mass murderers agree shirt are 20 years old attorney response team shirts. none of these are ever getting made again. so please help keep us on the air and get a piece of history and help us spread the word. the third dimension by taking advantage of the mega t-shirt blowout sale at infowarstorecom. and finally, this is the last week to get 40% off on Vazel beats and on bio true selenium. they are going to go back to 25% off. right now they are 40% off and they are excellent at infowarstorecom. Back to Owen Schreuer and our amazing crew in ATX. I am in the belly of the beast, Connecticut, so please pray for us All. right, ladies and gentlemen, more coming up from Alex this hour and then a great guest in the second hour. Let me just hit some of the news right now before we come back with Alex. COVID cases in China hit record as Shanghai extends lockdown. So, yeah, they locked down an entire. basically, it would be like locking down an entire city or even state. they are trying to test 26 million in Shanghai as their goal to COVID test 26 million. More than 80% of the country's latest daily cases were in Shanghai, where millions of people were confined to their home. So again, COVID cases hit record. but is that the story? No, The story is that they locked down the entire city of Shanghai, tested, or plan on testing, 26 million individuals and then they say: oh look, 80% of the COVID cases are in Shanghai. Oh, no, kidding, Where you tested every single person. Wow, Who could have guessed that would have been the case? Folks, you can shut down New York City right now. Forget about COVID. You could test for any disease. How about herpes? You could go and shut down New York City and test however many million people reside there, or however many million people you want in New York City, and you can get a large number of people to test positive for herpes. and you can say: massive herpes outbreak in New York City and then say 90% of new herpes cases are in New York City. Well, what's the real story there? It's not that there's herpes in New York City or that herpes is all of a sudden spreading wild like wildfire, or maybe that might be the case, but they're not making a big deal of it. The point is you can go to any city you want, test millions of people and get positive test results, and then the media can just say, oh, look, it's an outbreak. You could do it with any disease, any virus, anything. and then say, oh wow, most of the new cases are in this city that we locked down and test everybody in. That should be common sense. I shouldn't have to explain that, but I do, because when the Wall Street Journal reports on it, when all the mainstream news reports on it, they presented it face value, like wow, COVID has really hit Shanghai hard. It is just brutal there. No, what's brutal is the oppression of the people. What's brutal is the fake news, media's coverage of it, saying that there's a massive outbreak, even though they essentially shut down the city so that they could get the numbers to say there was a massive outbreak. You'd think it'd be pretty common sense stuff to understand, but it's not, and so we have to explain it. And now Fauci is crawling out of his rat hole and he's saying: get ready for more lockdowns here. I guess he loves what he's seeing in China and he says: it's a good thing, It's a positive thing to lockdown, It's a good thing to be a prisoner in your own country. Nobody likes a free country. I bet Fauci would like everybody locked down because he's afraid that he's going to get a lifelong prison sentence for his crimes against humanity. But you know, speaking of that- and I'll just go off on a jag real quick- I happened to rewatch the movie Dallas Buyer's Club this weekend and I don't know when it came out. I saw it when it came out. It was always a good film. It's not really my type of film, not really my genre or cinematic experience, but the movie is truly fantastic. And when you consider that that is based on a true story and you now have a better idea of Fauci's involvement in the AIDS epidemic in the 80s and you have a better idea of what the government did during COVID to just us in the last two plus years and you rewatch that movie with that context and that perspective, it really hits even harder. Our government hates us folks. They hate us. They want us dead. But I'll have to come back to this news because I just got to make this point. You got to understand something: The rulers of this planet, the people that believe they own this planet, you got to understand. I mean, to be honest, I'm really not even their enemy. They just hate me for my free speech and my pro-human views. They actually look at me like hey, you're educated, you're smart, you're in good shape. They really don't want to kill me. They'd rather have a bunch of people like me running around. They see gay people, they see trans people, they see old people, they see fat people. They literally want you dead And, in case you haven't noticed, that's why all the propaganda is aimed at you and aimed at women's wombs and children. It's a population control agenda and when they see gay people having gay sex, like in the 80s, they literally wanted you dead, so they gave you a killer drug. I want to thank folks that got part one in the three-part Founder Series at 1776coincom or m4storecom, and the second installment is the Tree of Liberty Thomas Jefferson quote must be watered with the blood of patriots and tyrants. It's a coin I designed. I'm very, very proud of it and it will end up being a collectible. I know that the first coin is already selling on eBay and other places for three times what we sold it. We need to sell all 10,000 of these very, very quickly and I appreciate listeners getting over half of them now I'd like to lose them out very quickly. I think they will sell out probably in five or six more days, And without the last coin sale we would not be operating at the same capacity. We would have had to lay off a lot of people and had some big problems. So it was a limited edition, collectible, tied to our political movement of liberty and freedom, and it's needed for our infrastructure and building new systems. So please give yourself and us aid in the fight against the new order at 1776coincom. You know it's a fact and I'm not bragging when I say it, it's just true that Info Wars is seen by the globalist as the standard of human liberty, as the logo of human, populist resistance against their transhumanist, anti-human program And man. our work is really right now hitting the most important aspects of what we've ever done. So I'm asking listeners now to realize we've got great products- thousands of them at InfoWarsTourcom- And we are funded by listeners and viewers like you, And so now we need to support more than ever, because this fight has intensified. don't need me to tell you that at InfoWarsTourcom We've got 25 to 75% off across the board right now. These have been sold out for a long time, like InfoWarsLife Fizzy Magnesium Mix- that's so amazing, and our new immune support formula- that's so critical. They're all available 25 to 75% off at InfoWarsTourcom right now. Ladies and gentlemen, I need your help. I need your help keeping InfoWars on the air and strong. I need your help making sure that our mission continues on. I was born for this, You were born for this, And people are really waking up right now. but we had to build our own infrastructure because of the censorship and deplatforming that cost tens of millions of dollars. And now, with Band-Aught Video getting close to 10 million views a day, we're a platform for thousands of independent journalists and groups to be able to post their content free of charge. And because it's become so successful, it's a catch-22.. InfoWars and Band-Aught Video have become a mothership promoting the pro-human liberty movement worldwide. But the expenses in bandwidth alone are millions of dollars a quarter, hundreds and hundreds of thousands of dollars a month. So the biggest sale in InfoWars history is going right now: the mega emergency blowout sale: up to 75% off, getting incredible products and keeping InfoWars as strong as ever. April 2022 just kicked off and it's already been incredible. Klaus Schwab, Bill Gates, Joe Biden- they, along with many other New World Order operatives have gone on national television and announced that we are now under a world government. They have a summit taking place right now in Dubai, titled World Government Summit, and they are announcing incredible tyranny. Everything we've talked about is now coming true and the globalists want to take us off air. Ladies and gentlemen, we are running the biggest sale in the history of InfoWars right now. In our 28 years, all InfoWars apparel is being sold at cost until the inventory is gone, and we're never going to print these t-shirts and ball caps at InfoWars flags again. We may have t-shirts and apparel in the future, but I don't even know. We are blowing out of everything to get emergency funds in right now. I'm firing the bat signal and asking you to get your t-shirts at infowarstorecom right now. It's going to cost Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones. You want to stop tyranny? Well, so does he. It's Alex Jones, And now your host, Owen Troyer. Now look, I've got all the news here in front of me. I've got the political developments. I've got the COVID developments. I've got the cultural rot of the left developments. I've got election fraud developments. I mean, I've got all the news here, I've got the video clips, I've got the left sexually grooming your children. I mean it's all here And I'll cover all of it today. But see, it really just all comes down to an understanding that people need to have and a worldview that you may not like, but you have to accept it because it's the reality. We have a current state of affairs on this planet where the- I don't even you can call them the elite, but truly not even that. you can talk about the satanic sex cults or the satanic death cults and all that stuff, But what it comes down to- and this has been recorded throughout modern human history, since the founding of this country- I mean, George Washington would write his journals about the Illuminati and Sheikah societies and all this stuff. But as the world evolves, so do these secret societies and so do other factions that want to compete with them. But at the end of the day, call it whatever you want- the Illuminati, secret societies, shadow government, These groups of people have reached intellectual conclusions that if you're a deep thinker, if you're an intellectual person, if you're a logician, we'll say: you've had these same patterns of thought and you may have reached different conclusions. you may have reached the same conclusions. but you may have a heart, you may have a soul, you may have a Christian ethos or some other religious ethos that makes you have love instead of hate, and believe in good instead of evil, and believe in a creator, and that's the ultimate power, that's the be all, end all, not you or whatever humans do on this planet. But see, this group of elite don't go off of that logic. They don't believe in divine creation or your divine existence. Instead, they look at the planet like it's a business. The best analogy I could make for you to try to understand this mindset- and this may go over many people's heads, but for me, we grew up with video games like SimCity Or basically these games that just simulate life in some form and you're in charge of a city or you're in charge of a civilization or something and you have to make decisions to make sure the civilization blossoms or whatever. The point is. that's how they look at the planet. The whole planet is a commodity to them and the daily operations or yearly operations or whatever on the planet are of major concern or cause to them. so if they think that there's too many humans on earth, then they're going to try to call the population. If they think there's a limited amount of resources and they want them for themselves to sustain themselves, or their bloodlines or their lineage or their secret groups, then they're going to make sure that you're not consuming those resources. So when you understand that mindset- which I don't know if I'm properly presenting- but when you understand that mindset and you look at the world through that perspective, you understand the globalist so much better, you understand their operating procedure, you understand their motives and when you tie that into the response to COVID, or the whole entire story of COVID, it actually makes sense. Now, why do I use the movie Dallas Buyers Club as a prospectus on how to understand this? Because you watch that movie and you would say, huh, because, just like with COVID, it was the same story. it's like huh. so we have an AIDS epidemic going on. we have drugs that we know help people that have AIDS, help extend their life, give them a higher quality of life, and then we have these drugs over here that are getting pushed by the FDA, that people in high places have investments in, that are killing all the AIDS patients. we're going to go with that drug instead and you would say, well, why the heck would that be going on? That doesn't make any sense. No, you see, it does make sense when you look at the planet as a commodity of yours, with scarce resources and a growing consumer base that you need to call, And so there's a certain level of evil to it and, quite frankly, there's a certain level of survival of the instincts and humanity to it. I'm not promoting this idea. I'm just telling you how they think. So in their minds, their logic, their reasoning is: if you're running around and you're engaging in sodomy and you're getting AIDS because of your gay sex, then you deserve to die. You deserve to die and we're going to give you a drug that's going to kill you even faster because you've made those life decisions. And so that's how they feel morally about it. in this black magic that they engage in is: hey, you chose this lifestyle. now you chose to come to us for help. we're going to kill you. That happened in the 80s. Now you've got COVID- the exact same story. Now, maybe AIDS was made in the lab, just like COVID. I don't know. I'm not here to have that discussion. I've seen the arguments before. In fact, I think it was Will Smith, even guys look that up. Will Smith actually said at one point in time that AIDS was made in a lab. That's just an old memory that popped up in my head. Will Smith claimed AIDS was made in a lab, So I'm not here to make that argument. We know COVID was made in a lab. We know that the treatment that was promoted by Fauci and others was deadly with the Remdesivir and with the blowing your lungs out on a ventilator and now with the vaccines. All those things are deadly. So you've got to understand. in their mind it's like an IQ test. So maybe it's not a moral test of: are you going to go out and engage in sodomy and anal sex, which is a bad life choice? No judgment here, I mean, it's just true. And they say: okay, well, you're going to die for that decision. Well, now it's: oh, if you're dumb enough to get a vaccine, if you're dumb enough to go to the hospital and get put on a ventilator in Remdesivir and you're not going to do any of your research into this, then you deserve to die. And that's how they look at it And they have no qualms in this mindset. Why do you think they operate with such confidence when they launch these operations Because in their eyes, from their perspective, their worldview, they're doing a good thing. They're saving the planet from sodomites, They're saving the planet from people that are too stupid that will go put something in their arms. Like that lady said from the NAACP: I'm not learning about the infusion, I don't care what's in the infusion, I'm just going to take the infusion. Well, that's stupid, that's death. So they think: okay, you believe that you're going to die? Yeah, Will Smith launches homophobic, anti-age rant in unheard footage. He actually guys, he went on 60 minutes. I think it was in the 90s with Leslie Stahl, I think it was. I don't remember who it was, but he went on 60 minutes and they brought it up. they're like: so do you believe age was made in a lab And he basically refused to answer the question, meaning he probably still believes that but didn't want to say it on 60 minutes. I mean, it was Barbara Walters. actually I forget who it was. It was Barbara Walters. thank you, crew. So you have to understand. this is the world that you live in And, in their eyes, people that believe they own this planet probably been in power for generations of bloodlines, generations, generations dating back centuries, who knows even millennia In their eyes. they really think they're doing a good thing and maybe they're really worshiping Satan or thinking they're getting messages from Satan. maybe it's total demonic possession. That's their logic. You're on a lifeboat in space called Planet Earth. There's not enough room and resources for everybody, And so they're gonna, they're gonna be the protectors of this planet and they're gonna call the population and they're gonna keep it, as they say in the Georgia guide, stones at a permissible human population of 500 million. Now, I don't believe any of that. God made this planet, God made this life, God made this experience. His will will be done and we've got plenty of space for everybody. but see, that's how the globalists think. So just understand when you see Dallas Buyers Club and what they do for COVID. yeah, they want you dead folks. In December of 2021, InfoWars offered the first in a three-part series, the 1776 Anti-Tyrant Coin, and it sold out in 10 days. And if it wasn't for listeners getting this original powerful coin- a founding member coin- we would not be on air today. Now the second coin, the Liberty Tree Coin, is being offered and it will probably sell out in 10 days again. It certainly needs to. it's under operation. It is so historic and it has a quote from Thomas Jefferson about the Tree of Liberty being refreshed with the blood of Patriots and Tyrants and more. See the coin for yourself at 1776coincom. It's also at infostorecom. It's amazing. there's only 10,000 of them and, as a founding member, if we're able to stay on the air, we're planning something very, very special for everyone that helps us go to the next level. So get your new Tree of Liberty coin while you still can at 1776coincom. So I did it. I signed up for the Austin Marathon. I've been training, probably not as much as they should be, but thank goodness for prayer and thank goodness for infowarsstorecom. Before I set out on a run, I throw down some Turbo Force to give me that energy I need to get going. You know, besides the energy Turbo Force, it is giving me the vitamins I need, like vitamin C to keep me healthy and the essential B vitamins, plus the amino acids for sustained energy, giving me the best chance at getting through the training. And then, every day now I'm taking Dr Jones' Sorilis. I have bad joints, thanks mom. So this is great for giving my joints the extra support they need right now, plus inflammation support and extra flexibility. The quick release capsules help me recover fast so I can get back to the training. Even if you're not crazy enough to take on a marathon, good news: Turbo Force: that can still give you the energy and clarity you need for every day, and Sorilis can keep you moving and feeling great at any age. The powerful combination of both vitamin C and zinc are great stepping stones to leading a healthier life. Infowars has made it easier to make sure you are getting enough in your system with a supplement that contains both. This info wars life offering vitamin C plus zinc with rose hips should be your next purchase from the info wars store. The rose hips contained within are a part of the rose flower, just below the petals that contain the rose plant seeds. Natural chemicals found in the hips may even be helpful for a variety of health conditions, including those with osteoarthritis and for those with pain after surgery studies have shown. As for vitamin C and zinc themselves, you probably already know that they play an important role in nutrition, immune defense and the maintenance of your everyday health. It has been reported that intake of both is often inadequate, even in affluent populations like here in America. So next time you visit, be sure to check it out at infowarsstorecom where we promise our rose hips don't lie. Ladies and gentlemen, infowarsstorecom is offering the biggest sales in its over 20 year history and that is because the economy is breaking down, inflation is exploding, the supply chains have broken down and infowars is having serious trouble making its payroll and paying for operations. and I do not want to implode or downsize in the face of the globalist making their main move. Infowars is paradoxical. it is more popular than ever. it is reaching more people than ever, despite the censorship. but because of cost increasing and having to run our own infrastructure and pay for our own bandwidth and everything else, we are running out of money. So listen, up to 75% off at infowarsstorecom on things like amazing patriot t-shirts that help spread the word and fund the operation, on supplements, on books, on films- everything is 25 to 75% off right now- the biggest sell in our history at infowarsstorecom. Thank you for your support. Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen. Owen Schreuer is about to take over again in a moment and he's got some special guests, a lot of news and, of course, your phone calls coming up here today. really appreciate Owen sitting in and doing a fabulous job here on the main infowarshow. Of course you can tune into his extremely informative and powerful transmission weekdays 3pm central, and that is the war room- with Owen Schreuer and another very important broadcast, weekday mornings with Harrison Smith. American Journal also has a lot of great guests and just amazing analysis by Harrison Smith. so please continue to spread the word about that. We are massively censored, we are massively de-platformed, but because of listeners and viewers with human intelligence, you've been able to overpower the censors in the last four years and infowars has become the model and the standard of resistance and victory against the deep state of persevering. so thank you- and I mean that from the bottom of my heart- for helping us all persevere together through what's happening. now I don't want to talk about this subject and I know listeners are sick of hearing about it, but it's very important to the big picture and to your life and to what the future of our country and the world is going to be like if we don't become aware of this. so sit back for a moment and think, as you're tuning into the Alex Jones show here today, why would you have to be living in a cave to not hear about Alex Jones every day in the news being demonized? Why is that happening? Why do they hate me so much And why is their main tool of demonization against me? Not that I'm a racist, like they use on mainline Republicans and conservatives, no, no, that I'm a horrible person because I ask questions about big events that start wars. I popularize the term false flag that's been around for hundreds of years. I get people to look at things closely in question and that's why I'm the big bad wolf. If you look at what's happening in Ukraine, obviously the Russians are doing bad stuff. Obviously the Ukrainians are doing bad stuff. It's a war. It's terrible. It's horrible. The footage has poured out that's been proven to be fake by the Ukrainian side. We've not really caught the Russians doing any type of fake stunts or fake massacres because I think the Russians know that they're not sophisticated enough to get away with it. The Ukrainians have a very sophisticated movie propaganda system. Even mainstream media has talked about Zelensky's propaganda machine. He's been an actor all his life. They've been caught staging all these fake massacres and these fake events and now, when you hear them talk, you don't know whether they're telling the truth or not. They have been caught using famous actors from Ukraine in battle scenes as victims. over and over again. They've been caught using what's basically movie sets with Russian tanks. they've captured to stage other events and claim that oh look, there's all these dead people on the street and they're actors. ladies and gentlemen, There's no blood, They're not even rotting. They supposedly have been dead there for weeks. We're not saying there aren't real people being killed. We're not saying this isn't really terrible that Putin invaded, in my view, but it's even worse that NATO started the fight to lure Russia in. What I'm saying is it's our birthright and its common sense to be able to question the Gulf of Tonkin or question WMDs in Iraq, or question anthrax and Colin Powell to UN, and to question Jesse Smollett and Bubba Wallace and almost all these hate crimes against black people that turn out to be completely staged by leftists, to again politically make everybody guilty and to follow their directive. So when you see in the news on Fox and CNN and ABC News every day- and I mean I can't even go to CNN's website without seeing articles every day demonizing me- you've got to ask why that is because they want everybody else out there to be scared to question events. They want everybody else out there to think that little people can't question official narratives. going back to the case with Ukraine and Russia, I said that I thought Russia was probably going to invade. I also thought China was going to invade Taiwan, because that information had been leaking out, and the Chinese government said that they might do it. I think they're watching, first, though, to see what Russia does, And I- famously, of course, back in October of last year, made the prediction that by February, that would happen. And then we saw Vladimir Putin lie and say that he wasn't going to invade while he was massing troops. Now, that's not him staging a false flag, that's not him staging dead bodies or massacres, but that's him lying and saying I'm not going to invade, so that when he invaded, he had the element of surprise. Again, it's okay to question Putin and just say: I'm just not going to believe what he officially says, But we're told by the US media: don't believe anything Putin says, but believe everything our media says, when they have a much worse track record of Vladimir Putin when it comes to lying. So, again, the most valuable thing we have is questioning narratives and not buying what we're officially told. Now we have Biden running around saying he wants war crimes, He wants escalated military hardware sent against Russia because of supposed massacres in this town, And we have articles on infowordscom and the videos that clearly show a lot of this is fake. Plus, remember, the ghost of Kiev wasn't real. Remember, the Snake Island massacre wasn't real And it's okay to point out that that's. those are lies. Now sometimes we're going to question events and they're going to turn out to be real. We've seen that with mass shootings. But it's okay and it's healthy to question those things. But that's why you see it all over the news that Alex Jones is the worst person on earth, because the idea of someone questioning the establishment is the ultimate crime. when it's the bedrock of freedom, The ability to say two plus two equals four is freedom. George Arwell was right when he wrote that and it's still true today. Everyone watching or listening to this broadcast today instinctively knows there's not hundreds of articles demonizing Alex Jones today and scores of TV programs on every major channel saying he's a horrible, bad person. because it's really all just about Alex Jones, It's about you. They want to demonize the common man, the common woman. They want to demonize populist movements and they see info wars and our operation as the example of the folk hero, of the little guy standing up And so they can take something I've done in my past, questioning a shooting here at Sandy Hook, exaggerate it, lie about it and then demonize me. People don't even remember Adam Lanz's name. They remember Alex Jones and they come up to me on the street and they say: you killed those kids or leave those kids alone. And then now the lawyers up here- Democratic Party lawyers, are basically under the command of Senator Blumenthal. They are openly saying that: oh, we're going to show his shopping cart. and now he made more money on Sandy Hook days. By the way, how were we defaulted When we gave them all that? and then they say they have nothing. and now they want to double default, where they have a trial where I'm guilty, already defaulted, a trial where you're already guilty, just deciding how guilty, and now a trial where we can't talk or put on evidence to show that they weren't damaged. You understand how that works. So literal show trials at a level where the other side can't talk, where the defendants can't talk and can't even defend themselves. Oh, yes, you're guilty, but now you can't defend yourself on how you're not as guilty as they say you are. you're not this horrible villain. They are stealing your birthright of a fair trial. They're destroying the Eighth Amendment against cruel, unusual punishment and excessive fines. They are raping everyone's birthright right now and it is a triangle of a corrupt judiciary with a corrupt corporate media system and lawyers that are part of that whole tryout of control. And this is a case point, test example. they admit on MSNBC and other channels to take Tucker Carlson and everybody else off air. The idea that you sell products and that you're lying on air to sell the products is just absolutely insane. You tell the truth on air, people know you tell the truth, you have a big audience. then you sell products that people want and need. that's a totally separate deal. I am talk radio on TV. that's our model. But again they're selling the idea that when anybody that's populist or anybody that's conservative or Christian has their own outlet, has their own economy, has their own listeners and their own financial ecosystem, that that's the ultimate sin And that came out in Clinton documents a few years ago when the Western Journalism Center sued and got them out of their federal papers. It was a Clinton's when they first got elected in 1993, saying our main mission is shutting down conservative ecosystems that are selling VHS tapes and books. We've got to silence them or they're going to form their own ecosystem and their own economy, and then the populist will take America back. And that's what this is. These are globalist dictators, world economic forum tyrants that have penetrated our governments, put their people into control and now they don't want a peaceful political uprising of the populist that question them and remove them. Well, guess what? They failed and we're never going to be silenced and the people are awakening and humanity will come together and we will have peace and we will have justice and we will bring the criminals to justice. God bless and good luck. Hour number two coming up. I want to thank folks that got part one in the three part Founder Series at 1776coincom, and the second installment is the Tree of Liberty. Thomas Jefferson quote must be watered with the blood of patriots and tyrants. It's a coin I designed. I'm very, very proud of it and it will end up being a collectible. I know that the first coin is already selling on eBay and other places for three times what we sold it. We need to sell all 10,000 of these very, very quickly and I appreciate listeners getting over half of them now. I'd like to move them out very quickly. I think they will sell out, probably in five or six more days, and without the last coin sale we would not be operating at the same capacity. We've had to lay off a lot of people and that's a big problem. So it was a limited edition, collectible, tied to our political movement of liberty and freedom, and it's needed for our infrastructure and building new systems. So please give yourself and us aid in the fight against the new order at 1776coincom. The newest product from Fowler's Life is now available exclusively at infowarsdoorcom. It is concentrated known herbs and compounds that will supercharge your body's natural defenses, your immune system, all at the same time. fun in the infowar. Our immune systems have always been critical, but in this globalist era, with all the criminal activity they're involved in, it is more important than ever to take the tools God gave us and supercharge our immune systems. InfowarsLife immune support is a game changer and everyone out there that wants to be healthy and wants to boost your natural defenses should get it today Out of the gates. there's 25% off at infowarsdoorcom and a lot of other great products that boost your immune system as well, but this one is the very strongest we've got. so anybody out there that cares about their health and wants to take care of themselves needs to get this product. It's also a great gift for friends and family to boost their immune system as well. Get yours today at infowarsdoorcom for 25% off. Using a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order, it's Alex Jones. Now you can't say with 100% certainty that if the election wasn't stolen from Donald Trump and the American people in 2020, that the situation in Ukraine wouldn't be happening, but what we can say with 100% certainty is that the last two times Biden has been in the White House, Russia has invaded Ukraine. that is a fact. Now, remember when they first started peddling the fake PP gate dossier- the Hillary Clinton paid for opposition research fake PP dossier. The claim at the time was that Russia had blackmail on Trump. Russia was controlling Trump because of said blackmail, and the blackmail was the alleged PP gate Trump dossier, which was all made up. in fact, it may have actually been actually a Hunter Biden story that they just said was Trump instead. probably maybe the case, folks, that it was actually a Hunter Biden or Joe Biden story that they just did a Indiana Jones switch and just put Trump's name in it instead, that it was going to be used to get Biden out of the out of the race. and it was actually the New York Times that was reporting that Hillary Clinton had dirt on Biden that the Clinton campaign was going to release that was going to cause Biden to drop out of the race. well, he dropped out. they never released it. then, all of a sudden, the PP gate Trump dossier came out, which was totally fake. we now know it. So the last two times Biden's been in the White House, Russia has invaded Ukraine. that is undeniable. Now again, can I say with confidence that if Trump was in the White House it wouldn't happen? well, I can say that with confidence. is it 100% certain? maybe not 100% certain, but it's about as close as you can get. now, why do I say that? well, why doesn't Democrat, liberal logic ever get applied equally? because it's not logic, it's propaganda. So if said tape existed against Donald Trump, that would cause Trump to be compromised by the Russians. well then, what does Hunter Biden's laptop equal? ah, ah, now it would be very reasonable to assume not just the Hunter Biden laptop that we've seen or that we know about. then there's the second Hunter Biden laptop that got stolen from him by Russian or Ukrainian drug dealers, where we have a phone conversation that leaked of Hunter Biden saying he was concerned because these drug dealers in Ukraine- maybe they're Russian, maybe they're Ukraine- stole one of his laptops that had sensitive information on it, and after what we've seen from the laptop, I think we have an idea what kind of sensitive information that is. So who's to say, given the Democrat liberal logic from 2015 and 2016, who's to say that Biden is not the one being controlled by Russia right now? and if you look at how the geopolitical picture has changed since Biden has been in office, well, it really shakes out with that logic, doesn't it? Russia has never been more relevant as a world power. Russia has never been thrust to the top of the geopolitical power structure in such a short time as they have since Biden got into office. and now we're looking at a situation where gas- natural gas- transactions are going to be made in ripples and not the US dollar, and we're just looking around the corner at that being the future. So please, to all the Democrats and the Libs and the media out there that said Trump was going to be compromised and controlled by Russia for the PP gate dossier, which we now know is fake. tell me, where is your logic? where is your fair and balanced coverage using that same conclusion towards the Hunter Biden laptop story? oh see, it doesn't exist because your liars, your frauds, your phonies. now we're going to get into the latest situation in Ukraine with my guest coming up, independent journalist Jacob Creech, who's been breaking a lot of news when it comes to the bio labs, the Russian strikes on the bio labs and the Biden involvement in the bio labs. First coin was released in December of 2021 and sold out in 10 days. now the second coin. go for yourself to 1776coincom and see the new Liberty tree coin. it is powerful. witness this powerful iconography for yourself and have this piece of history and be part of the founding member system that we're set to launch in the very near future, thanks to your support of this project. get a historic memento that helps keep info wars on the air and also gives you a real piece of history at 1776coincom. the answer to 1984 is 1776. your listening to the Alex Jones show and now your host, Owen shroyer. well, you know all you liberal democrats out there that want to stop the war in Ukraine. well, you could have done that by stopping Biden from getting into office, but you let him steal the election and so now you're dealing with the consequences. You know, it's just so outrageous. I'm watching, I don't even know what I was watching. last night I was watching something on television- non, non political, maybe sports, or like a movie or TV show or something, and I don't. usually it's just full on news on my TV's all day. but I'm just, I'm sick of looking at the left destroying America 24, seven. so I've been trying to just divert my attention with sports and comedy and stuff. and then it's little pictures or pictures of little kids in Ukraine. and this is like on all the networks. it's like comedy central, ESPN, ABC- who's ever broadcasting the men's college basketball tournament? and I see the same stuff. all these different groups that would raise money for Africa, raise money for Jews, or raise money for this and raise money for that- all of them are now raising money for Ukraine and they're all showing you the plight of the Ukrainian people. and then they have pictures of little Ukrainian kids up there, you know, saying they're starving. they need your help, they need your money, they need your support. and I'm just sitting there and I'm just watching this and it's just stunning when you when you've put on the glasses, when you've put on or when you've taken the red pill, and you see this stuff. it just it hits so much different and you realize most of the people probably watching this- tuned in to watch a comedy event or tuned in to watch a college basketball game- have no clue what's going on and they just see this propaganda and it's just like, oh, wow, really bad in Ukraine. wow, you know, maybe they give a little money, maybe just the propaganda hits home, but it's just. you sit there and you look back at it. you're like, wow, these organizations have been running these scams- yes, scams- for years. that's all it is and and and again. it's like the same thing with the hospital. I don't want to come on air and be anti hospital. I don't want to be anti doctor. that's like the last thing I want to be. but I'm going to tell it like it is. you get COVID. you go to the hospital. you're asking to die. you got one of these doctors promoting the, the death shot. yeah, I'd avoid that doctor. I'd avoid that hospital. does that make me feel good that I'm telling you you can't trust our health institutions? no, that sucks. so it's the same thing with all these charities that just pop up and the latest, the latest cause, the latest craze, the latest trend. they fundraise for it. and you know, the only reason they do that is because they're making millions and millions of dollars. and because, think about it, why would they pay millions of dollars for advertising unless they were set to make millions of dollars? and they've already come out with all these groups, CEOs like the Red Cross and what's the other big one- it's like Gateway or something they sponsor, the NFL. they've already come out, they're all making buku dollars. the CEOs, all of them making millions of dollars. tiny, tiny fraction of your donation, like 10%, actually goes to the cause and it's just scam after scam after scam. and I'm just sitting here like I'm trying to watch a bat, I'm trying to watch a basketball game and I'm get boom COVID propaganda, boom gay propaganda, boom Ukraine propaganda, and this is just all in a two, three minute break and it just sucks like just the propaganda is everywhere and you have to fully remove yourself from the establishment, from the corporate establishment. you have to fully remove yourself, otherwise you're just sitting there consuming this propaganda all day long. and that's the problem is, most people here are just tuning in to watch a ball game and they have no I clue. they have no clue. they are just getting bombarded with propaganda the entire time, even when the game's on, with all the black lives matter stuff, people wearing blue and yellow for Ukraine- I mean, this is during the game. then you go to the break and again it's: you're gay, your kids are gay, everyone's gay. give money to Ukraine. it's just, it's nonstop with it. so we've got Jacob Creech on air with us. he's an independent journalist. he's been the tip of the spear on many of the breaking stories revolving around the bio labs in Ukraine, the Biden involvement and the Russian attacks on said bio lab. so I bring Jacob in now. Jacob, just what is the beginners course for this? what is kind of the introductory course to the bio labs in Ukraine, the Biden involvement and the Russian assault on them? yes, oh, and thanks for having me on kind of for starters, the US DOD does have a biological threat reduction program in Ukraine with which they tried to cover up excessively once I started kind of breaking the news. I wasn't the first one to know about bio labs in Ukraine. I was the first one to make the connection that the Ukrainians- excuse me, the Russians- were moving into Ukraine to attack and or take over these bio labs due to the fact that they have been accusing United States of creating biological weapons and doing dangerous research on pathogens in these labs in Ukraine. so I was kind of censored and heavily attacked for bringing all this information to the forefront. and since, since then, all the information has come out to support everything that I have been pushing, with which the Russians are moving into Ukraine to attack bio facilities in the United States or, excuse me, in Ukraine, which was funded by the United States Department of Justice, excuse me, Department of Defense. now, what is the involvement with Rosemont Seneca or one of these other Biden shell corporations that they launder money out of? what? what's the involvement there? yes, so this information was brought forth, actually, from the Russian military to the United Nations. it was presented that there was connections between Hunter Biden, the DNC, via his investment firm, Rosemont Seneca, to funnel US DOD funds into one of their own bio labs that they own in Ukraine, known as a metabiota. and there's so much more digging to be done. in that situation, what, in what research metabiota is digging into and creating genome specific pathogens to attack nationalities and races, so you can understand why Russia might be a little bit upset about that. but yes, Hunter Biden and the Kerry family, as well as the Pelosi family and the Romney family, all have family members sitting on the board of Rosemont Seneca involved in this funneling of US funds into US bio labs in Ukraine. I want to get back to those names, but I want to know if you've noticed this pattern too and if there's, if there's, something significant about this. why was Barack Obama so intent on having all these bio labs- weapons going or bio labs going, whether he knew they were for weapons or not? I guess you could say he didn't know, but it was Obama that made sure, when the lab in North Carolina was shut down, that all that research got sent to the Wuhan lab in China. it was one of the last things they did in the Obama administration to make sure that there was more funding into Ukraine, not just for neo-nazis, but for these bio labs. what is the Obama connection with that? is it significant, or is that just something he happened to be there and oversee? well, I would definitely say that it's significant, given the fact that in 2005, Obama, along with one other senator, was sent to Ukraine to observe and in place the biological threat reduction program. so there's definitely a connection there, and the fact that they made sure to do this on Obama's way out was kind of sketchy in the sense that the deep state was utilizing these locations in Ukraine to circumvent US congressional oversight to conduct their black site activities and create pathogens with increased lethality and transmissibility. so I would definitely say there's a connection there. given the deep state and the activity and Obama being smack dab in the middle of all of this, he most certainly played a part in creating and generating this opportunity for the deep state to create these pathogens, like I said, outside of the scope of US congressional oversight. so, yeah, there's definitely a connection there. I can't necessarily confirm any direct involvement, like I can with the hunter, Biden, Pelosi's, carries and Romney's, so let's pick it up there. on the other side of this break, we are only offering three coins in the series. the first coin was released in December of 2021 and sold out in 10 days. now. the second coin, as we enter the last days of March into April 2022, is now being offered and I believe it will sell out in just a few days again, because these are historic coins and because our amazing listeners want to support freedom and keep info wars at the front lines of the fight against these tyrants. so go for yourself to 1776 coin dot com and see the new Liberty tree coin. it is powerful. witness this powerful iconography for yourself and have this piece of history and be part of the founding member system that we're set to launch in the very near future, thanks to your support of this project. get a historic memento that helps keep info wars on the air and also gives you a real piece of history at 1776 coin dot com. ladies and gentlemen, I need your help. I need your help keeping info wars on the air and strong. I need your help making sure that our mission continues on. I was born for this, you were born for this, and people are really waking up right now. but we had to build our own infrastructure because of the censorship and deplatforming that cost tens of millions of dollars. and now, with bandot video getting close to 10 million views a day, we're a platform for thousands of independent journalists and groups to be able to post their content free of charge, and because it's become so successful, it's a catch 22: info wars and bandot video have become a mothership promoting the pro human liberty movement worldwide. but the expenses in bandwidth alone are millions of dollars a quarter, hundreds and hundreds of thousands of dollars a month. so the biggest sale and info wars history is going right now: the mega emergency blowout sale: up to 75 percent off, getting credible products and keep info wars as strong as ever. you know, it's a fact and I'm not bragging when I say it, it's just true- that info wars is seen by the globalist as the standard of human liberty, as the logo of human, populist resistance against their transhumanist, anti-human program and man. our work is really right now hitting the most important aspects of what we've ever done. so I'm asking listeners now to realize we've got great products- thousands of them- at info wars tour dot com, and we are funded by listeners and viewers like you, and so now we need to support more than ever because this fight has intensified. don't need me to tell you that at info wars tour dot com we've got 25 to 75 percent off across the board right now. things have been sold out for a long time, like info wars: life fizzy magnesium mix- that's so amazing, and our new immune support formula- that's so critical. they're all available 25 to 75 percent off, and info wars tour dot com right now. April 2022 just kicked off and it's already been incredible. claus Schwab, bill gates, joe bighton- they, along with many other new world order operatives, have gone on national television and announced that we are now under a world government. they have a summit taking place right now in dubai, titled world government summit, and they are announcing incredible tyranny. everything we've talked about is now coming true and the globalist want to take us off air. ladies and gentlemen, we are running the biggest sale in the history of info wars. right now, in our 28 years, all info wars apparel is being sold at cost until the inventory is gone and we're never going to print these t-shirts and ball caps and info wars flags again. we may have t-shirts and apparel in the future, but i don't even know. we are blowing out of everything to get emergency funds in. right now. i'm firing the bat signal and asking you to get your t-shirts at info wars store dot com. right now. they're at cost, leading a frontal assault on the lies of the new world order. it's alex jones, we're talking about the bio labs in ukraine, and and and really, jacob. i think that if we understand this story. we understand so much of the geopolitical corruption, specifically that that the american government officials are involved in. we know that there's corruption all over the planet, but we got to clean up our own front yard first before we point fingers at others, and so we were discussing the clear obama involvement of all this. i mean literally from the time he got into the senate in the early 2000s to the time he left the white house in 2016. he was all over bio labs in ukraine, china, everything- but was he directly involved or these just projects he was overseeing? you could have the debate, but with polosi, romney, carry, biden and their family members, there is direct involvement. there are receipts. it's all on paper. the media won't cover it, so so let's talk about that and and how this really shows the overall geopolitical corruption that our politicians are involved in. yeah, absolutely so. what's really going on here is these: these major political families are utilizing their family members as proxies to carry out their black site operations, to, like i said, circumvent oversight from their constitutional bodies, with which are supposed to govern these activities. so, for example, the reason why we do this research in ukraine is because it's illegal here in the united states, and it's also much easier to cover up these kinds of things if they're being taken or they're taking place in ukraine as opposed to the us. so these families are utilizing their own investment firms in their own biological research facilities- which? why do politicians own biological research facilities in other countries, let alone our own countries? what the hell they're doing? if you are willing to believe that it's benevolent in any manner than your ignorant, it's 100% nefarious. there's no reason why they would want to do this, other than to get their hands into something with which they could use to enact control on the population. so, yes, our us politicians are utilizing corrupt methods, quasi legal and legal methods, to create pathogens to attack certain nationalities and genome specific sequences, and the russians found out about it. the russians went to war for it, the russians moved into ukraine for it, and the media and the left-wing media complex has gone to extreme lengths to cover this up with, which has now been proven to be 100% true, to include victoria newland confirming about these biolabs in ukraine and being concerned about the russians getting their hands on the information and the research they were conducting. of course, that was newland confirming that in congress, under oath, while gensaki was saying that they don't exist in the same hour. so that just shows how they lie to us. but i am curious. i mean, what is the motive here for the poloses, the romneys that carries the bidens to get involved in these labs? i mean, the obvious reason would be money. but i mean, is there some sort of anti russian sentiment that they carry? i mean, are they making a bunch of money? i mean, what's their real motive here, do you think? well, now you're asking me to imply intent, which i can't prove and legally can get me into trouble. but i can infer as to what i think is going on and i don't really care if they seek legal action against me. bring it on. these people are. well, let's start with the reason why russia is mad about. it is because the russians have put forth information showing that we were conducting research specifically asking for dna and mrna samples of white russians. so the russians believe that we are creating biological weapons specifically designed to target their people with, which is why putin came on and said that he had to invade ukraine to neutralize a threat with which was a threat to his population and his people. so is it just about money? i i really don't believe so. there's so many other avenues of which these people just just destroy and utilize our us taxpayer dollars as their slush fund to enrich themselves, which they could do that strictly just from the their inside, inside trading. they don't necessarily need to have bio labs in ukraine just for money. it's nefarious, and given the fact that cova just happened and given the fact that they're now admitting that it came from a lab, it's it's pretty cut and dry as to what's happening here, and if you can't see it, i can't help you, but there are corrupt politicians creating pathogens and they're getting out while i'm ruining the world. yeah, and- and you just said it right there, it's pretty obvious what's going on. any any neutral observer seeing this can can say whether you like russia, hate russia, think rush is the good guy or the bad guy. you cannot deny these bio labs were there. you cannot deny that that's a dangerous threat. there's a reason why they shut them down in america. you cannot deny that it was a similar bio lab that caused a covert outbreak, whether you think it was intentional or not. so so i guess then the next question is for these individuals getting involved in this. i mean, is there some sort of agreement like, hey, we have to be anti russia. is it a protection against russia? do they did, i mean? or i guess the better question is this: because we don't know their motives? how about the medias motive? why is the media so interested in covering this information up? they fall for fake news all the time. they give themselves awards for covering fake news like the the trump russian collusion or dossier, which never happened. they give themselves awards for that. why the blatant cover up of this story? do you think? well, one hundred percent i can confirm as to why this is is because the realization that we are conducting nefarious and or questionable research in different countries and bio labs across the world will eventually lead us to the confirmation that the usnih created coveted and either let it out or it escaped. you're welcome to believe whichever one you like. i believe it's quite obvious as to which one that is um. so the reason why they're covering up is because, as soon as we get back to the fact that they created coveted, the entire narrative of everything they've been covering for years completely collapses. they tried to cover up the fact that coveted came from a lab in wuhan. they said it came from a bat and some peasant eating bat soup. and they, which leads to all the other crimes they committed, such as covering up viable treatments for the bio weapon they released in order to enable emergency use authorization for their vaccines. that didn't work and were neither help for harm- excuse me- were neither safe nor effective, um, and it leads back to the fact that they infringed on the nineteen seventy two bio weapons convention, which is agreed upon by all but four nations in the world, with which you cannot stockpile or create biological weapons. so the reason why the media is so help in uncovering all this up and making sure that everything is pushed pro ukraine, the reason why they made the entire country support a literal nazi military installation in ukraine just because it's not the russians, is all to cover up the fact that they created, coveted, they let it out and they utilized it to implement a medical police state on the entire world. jacob creche is our guest bio clandestine dot substack dot com is where you can follow his great news coverage. he's been on this since day one, folks, and when we come back from this break, jacob, i want to get into more of what's going on in ukraine, because my biggest problem is: i want to know how you deal with this. my biggest problem is, whenever i go and i try to look for the latest news coming out of ukraine, it's literally two. there's literally two sides to every story. oh, that's russians torturing ukrainians. no, that's ukrainians torturing russians. and it's the same video- two completely separate takes. so my question for you when we come back, jacob, is how do you differentiate what's real and what's fake? how do you differentiate if it's a ukrainian army or a russian army? or do you just kind of say, hey look, there's no way for me to be completely positive, so i'm just going to cover what i know for fact, jacob creche, coming back, on the other side of this break of Operating at the same capacity, We've had to lay off a lot of people, and that's a big problem. So it was a limited edition, collectible, High to our political movement of liberty and freedom, and it's needed for our infrastructure and building new systems. So please give yourself and us aid in the fight against the new world order. at 1776 coin com in December of 2021, Info wars offered the first in a three-part series, the 1776 Entirent coin, and it's sold out in 10 days. and if it wasn't for listeners. getting this original, Powerful coin- a founding member coin, We would not be on air today. Now the second coin, the liberty tree coin, is being offered and it will probably sell out in 10 days again. It certainly needs to the front of operation. It is so historic and it has a quote from thomas jefferson about the tree of liberty being refreshed with the blood Of patriots and tyrants and more. see the coin for yourself at 1776 coin com. It's also at info or storecom. It's amazing. There's only 10,000 of them and, as a founding member, if we're able to stay on the air, We're planning something very, very special for everyone that helps us go to the next level. So get your new tree of liberty coin while you still can at 1776 coin com. Introducing the newest product from info wars, lifecom. We are so proud of info wars- life immune support. It is concentrated herbs that are known on record to supercharge our body's natural defenses. Ladies and gentlemen, this is something that is essential and everyone should get, and on top of it, It funds the info war. So that's the 360 win. Let me tell you what is in this amazing product: Concentrated elderberry, concentrated echinacea, concentrated astragalus roots, angelica root, lowetium root and more. This product is incredible. info wars immune support, Exclusively available at info wars storecom, is funding the tip of the spear, the info wars operation. It is a 360 win. The only way you fail is by not taking action and getting this product to boost your body's natural defenses and keep info wars on the air. The globalists are hoping you don't take action. Take action now. info wars storecom. Let's go ahead and take another call. Let's talk to malcom in tennessee. Welcome, Hello, alex. Yes, malcom, All right, I will make this quick and real short where the other patricks can get on the line. Alex, I have to promote one thing from one of your co-host, oan shroyer: Supermail volatility and brain force plus mix those two together, You're an unstoppable tank. Supermail volatility really, really works. It's cold pressed herbs and natural compounds that have never been heated up, And so it has a dramatic effect compared to powdered versions that also work quite well But just aren't as strong. This is like a very fine wine- It's, it's it's. in fact, each batch is different. Sometimes it's super strong, Sometimes it's just okay. people like, why are you selling something and admitting: sometimes, if the batch isn't strong, That's just how it is, It's how it works. Uh, so it's always good. It's just sometimes it's like super strong. But yeah, if you want the rolls Royce at a decent price, then this is it. Clearly you don't need to start selling rolls towards a small price, even though we've got. You found it the tip of the spear. it is The Alex Jones Show with Owen Troyer. We got one more segment here with Jacob Preach and you know I've seen the American media's wag the dog technique for years now and it's very apparent with the Ukraine situation. The media sets a narrative, the brainwashed public goes along with it. Now, I don't want to be on the opposite side of that, but yet still being in a wag the dog situation where whenever I see the mainstream media or the American media covering something or forcing a talking port or a narrative, I just assume it's fake, because in a way, that's me being wagged by the dog as well, even if that is probably the best way to approach the situation. But, Jacob, I'm sure you're having the same problems, or rather frustrations, that I'm having, where there's videos, there's reports, there's all this stuff and it's literally two sides to every story. Hey, that's Russians torturing Ukrainians. Hey, that's Ukrainians torturing Russians. Same video, two different stories. So how do you try to sort through all the propaganda, all the wag the dog to try to find out what's really going on in Ukraine? with all the headlines and the videos coming out, What's your technique or what advice do you give to people that are trying to follow this story? Well, for starters, I definitely agree with your sentiment with if it's coming from the mainstream media in the Western media complex, there's a good chance, based on recent proof, that they are lying. So that's the reason why I started looking into the biolab situation in Ukraine was because during the initial airstrikes I figured this out within about three hours. They were pushing that it was all from Donetsk and Crimea in the East. yet there were random individuals, airstrikes going on in locations all the way in Lviv, in the West, in Kiev, in the capital. So immediately I knew what they were telling me wasn't right. And that carries on with all these videos and such. You can go back to the Snake Island and the Ghost of Kiev and all the nonsense stories, the bombing of the maternity ward, which wasn't true and was actually overtaken by Nazis utilizing that as a foreign operating base. But the way I go about it is. I know for a fact if it's coming from the TVs, a good chance that it's a lie. So I have to compile all the facts that I can, to the best of my knowledge, When it comes to interpreting the videos and such. to be quite frank, I don't pay attention to any of those videos. It's so easy to stage those. easy to stage fake bodies, chemical attacks, like the actor that got caught in the gas explosion that they tried to push as also being bombed by Putin. It's just impossible to confirm any of that. So I only deal with the facts that I can verify via documentation, like I did with the Ukrainian Biolabs, as I found the source material on the US Gov sites. So I just find stuff that I can prove and verify. But when it comes to videos and stuff going on in Ukraine, you have to have a discerning eye and understand that we really don't know what's going on over there and it is a propaganda war US versus Russia. and, to be quite frank, I don't know who to believe, who I should believe or why I should believe either side. Well said, And an example would be the most recent video that I'm seeing all over the news: Fox News, CNN, MSNBC- they're all playing the same one where it's an individual with a camera walking down the street and there's a dead body here, a dead body there, And I mean they zoom in. It's like they show you the body, they zoom into the blood. I mean it's like so clearly there's a narrative they're trying to push there. And again it's like- I don't want to be the one that just doubts everything I see on TV, at the risk of being considered a lunatic, But again it's the same problem. It's like I know they've staged videos. we've seen them stage videos in Syria and other places where they have people in body bags and they start moving around or they sneeze during the film And it's like: oh hey, we got to reshoot this fake dead guy scene. or like videos where they show Ukrainians supposedly doing minesweeps and the cameraman is in front of the guy doing it, So he's going to get blown up and that's so. I mean there's obvious stuff that you can tell it's fake. Then there's other stuff that's nuanced. But I guess my question is this, because it was not too long ago, 10,, 20 years ago- whether it's the babies and incubator moment or all this other stuff- where, when the American media would show something like a bunch of dead bodies on the streets in Ukraine, all of America would jump and say: this is awful, we have to do something about this. It seems to me America is less sensitive to this now, Specifically, let's say, the Fox News audience. for obvious reasons, Most Fox News audience doesn't even trust Fox News, but they just at least consider it more fair and balanced than anything else. they're going to see where usually they would show all these videos of dead people and it'd be like knee jerk, we're going to war. It doesn't seem to have the impact that it's had in years past. Would you agree with that? Yeah, that's an excellent point, and that just goes to prove that, now more than ever, there is less trust in the media than there has ever been. That is due to the fact that we, as a citizen intelligence apparatus, have massively expanded in our reach and our ability to provide a counter narrative to just the absolute nonsense that they've been pushing us for years. I give credit to this, to social media and the fact that we have a voice. even despite and all of the censorship and deep platforming, we're still able to get this message out and now more than ever, people are listening to citizens, as opposed to what's coming through the news. So, yes, I agree with you 100% that the people, to be quite frank- I don't know if I'm allowed to curse on your show- We're not buying the BS anymore. We're just not buying it and we're going to figure it out on our own and we're not listening to a single word anyone's got to say about it. I'm hearing mixed conclusions just from going through the waterfront of media. I'm hearing mixed conclusions. Some people think this war will be over in a couple months. Some people think it will be years. I tend to believe it's going to be years, because that's what the West wants, That's what the Biden regime wants. They want this war to go on forever. It helps their stock portfolio, It helps the weapons manufacturers, It helps them have a scapegoat on all the problems going on in America and the world. So the West, to me, wants this to go on as long as possible. I don't think that's what Russia wants. I think Russia has a pretty clear agenda here: De-nazify, get rid of the biolabs, get rid of the Western corruption. But knowing all this, weighing all this, how long do you think this war is set to go on? How much resistance can Ukraine really put forth over a long period of time, Or will Russia eventually just be spun out? I'm going to go ahead and confirm for you right now that anything going on in Ukraine is 100% at the mercy of Russia. Any of these narratives that are trying to say that Ukraine is standing up to Russia- that is simply not the case. Russia is operating under a specific set of rules and engagement. If they wanted to flatten Ukraine, they could have done that in the first week. They could have completely leveled the entire country, moved in, taken over, slaughtered all the civilians and we wouldn't have any questions about it. But they're conducting a specific military operation, as per Putin and their Russian military. So they're acting in a diplomatic fashion and they presented these things through the proper diplomatic channels, through the UN, accusing the US of creating biological weapons on their border. So, honestly, this is entirely up to Russia. Russia hasn't really advanced any farther in the media, doesn't really seem to want to talk about that. They just want to keep showing you all these dead bodies and such. But Russia has been rather reserved, in a sense, as opposed to this dictatorial narrative they've painted on Putin. But it's entirely up to Russia. Whenever Russia wants to end this, they will end it Whenever Russia feels like they have neutralized the threat which they view as a threat to their people. they'll stop Quickly. what is your just view of Zelensky? Well, he's a former actor and he's clearly either in control of or loyal to the globalists. I don't know if he's an actor for good forces that's just playing a part to take down the deep state, or if he's just a complete rat that obviously is under control of the deep state. I do not know, but I know he's acting and he's playing a role and he's not really any sort of militaristic or presidential force in Ukraine. He's controlled via proxies, via the NATO in the US. Jacob Creech, great interview. We thank you for joining us. Tell people where they can follow you and get all this information. Yes, so, as you know, I've probably been de-platformed everywhere, but I'm currently operating on Telegram. You can find my channel at Bioclindestine on Telegram. My sub-stack where you can get my newsletter is bioclindestinesubstackcom, And I just recently got on the true social. I'm still on the waiting list. You can find me at clandestine on true social. Jacob Creech, excellent breakdown. Great work there with Bioclindestine, and we thank you for joining us here today. Of course, Owen, Thank you so much. I appreciate it. All right, there goes Jacob Creech- And you heard him, folks. I mean, he gets de-platformed. If you don't go along with the mainstream narrative, if you do your own investigative research and you put out facts that the globalists don't want out there on their social media platforms, they remove you. But we're glad that Jacob was able to come on air with us today and speak his mind. We like people to get banned by the corrupt establishment. That's a good sign. You know, it's a fact and I'm upragging when I say it. it's just true that InfoWars is seen by the globalists as the standard of human liberty, as the logo of human, populist resistance against their transhumanist, anti-human program And man. our work is really right now hitting the most important aspects of what we've ever done. So I'm asking listeners now to realize we've got great products- thousands of them at InfoWarsTourcom- And we are funded by listeners and viewers like you, and so now we need to support more than ever, because this fight has intensified. Don't need me to tell you that at InfoWarsTourcom We've got 25 to 75% off across the board right now. These have been sold out for a long time, like InfoWarsLife Fizzy Magnesium Mix. that's so amazing and our new immune support formula that's so critical. They're all available 25 to 75% off at InfoWarsTourcom right now. The average person on the face of this incredible planet is still unaware that there's a war between free individuals and nation states on one side and the globalists on the other, who are literally trying to create a post-human world. From the United States to Brazil and, of course, triggered by the Brexit in the UK, nations were pulling out of the private, corporate, fascist world government. That's why they launched their great recess and their program, after collapsing us, of Build Back Better. This is nothing more than a top-down vertical consolidation of the world economy and because they couldn't take our guns and because we wouldn't bow, because the left, which is the ideology of this world government system, couldn't win, they released a biological weapon on us. Now we know two years ago. we learned about it about 20 months ago. It's that simple. They can't beat us because of our free speech and our guns. so the global corporate combine released COVID-19, and you know. the rest is history. Expose this paradigm and we win. Randy Dewright- Randy Dewright, Thanks for holding her on the ear. Go ahead. First of all, let me say I love your products. I am a granny and, for all the senior citizens out there that may have spent a lifetime in the sun, like me, I was loaded up with sunspots, or H-spots as they're lovingly called- But since taking your X2 for the last couple of years, my skin is just really gorgeous. actually, People think I'm 55 years old And I was already taking your other supplements, but I thought, you know well, maybe that's what I need to do, because I just thought it was a hopeless situation. but when I started taking it- I mean, it doesn't happen immediately, but you know, over a period of time- I started noticing: okay, you know, this is a ticket, this is working, this is wonderful. you know, I don't have to put on derma blend anymore, you know so, anyway, it worked wonderfully and it really has totally cleared up my skin. April 2022 just kicked off and it's already been incredible. Klaus Schwab, Bill Gates, Joe Biden- they, along with many other new order operatives, have gone on national television and announced that we are now under a world government. They have a summit taking place right now in Dubai, titled World Government Summit, and they are announcing incredible tyranny. Everything we've talked about is now coming true and the globalists want to take us off air. Ladies and gentlemen, we are running the biggest sale in the history of Info Wars. right now, In our 28 years, all Info Wars apparel is being sold at cost until the inventory is gone and we're never going to print these t-shirts and ball caps at Info Wars flags again. We may have t-shirts and apparel in the future, but I don't even know. We are blowing out of everything to get emergency funds in right now. I'm firing the bat signal and asking you to get your t-shirts at infowarstorecom right now. That's at cost. Thank you, Ladies and gentlemen. we are down to the final 2,000.. In fact, it's going to be less than that. That was the number as of this morning. We're now under 2,000 of our limited edition number two coin in the set of three tree of Liberty coin. at infowarstorecom You go to the store front, you click on the image that we have there of the limited edition coin and that will take you to 1776 coin or Patriot Collectibles to purchase your limited edition, which we also now have on sale. Originally it was 150, now 130.. This pure silver coin is a limited edition run less than 2,000 left and it is an investment. Now, yes, silver is a precious metal that a lot of people think is being synthetically kept down. the price of it, that is, by the central banks. but no, I'm not talking about making an investment in precious metals or silver. here, though, there is an inherent value. You're investing in free speech, you're investing in free press, you're investing in keeping infowars on the air. That's the investment that you make when you purchase the limited edition tree of Liberty silver coin from infowarstorecom. And I got to tell you, folks, because, look, I'm human, just like anybody else. I can have a range of emotions, like anybody else, a lot of times that pours out here on the air. But let me just tell you I want to have a moment here with this crew and this audience to celebrate and say: we're still here. That is a victory. So free speech is not dead yet in this country, And when you go and you invest in the second set of three limited edition silver coins from infowarstorecom, you're keeping us alive, you're keeping free speech alive. So, yeah, you know what Free speech in America right now is bloody, it's battered, it's bruised, it's got limbs blown off. it's it's gimping up and down just trying to, just trying to move with a crutch that's also been blown up, but it's not dead yet And we're still fighting for it and you're and you're, and you're hoisting it up Infowars as an example of free speech. So we appreciate that. And it is this coin that's going to fund us for the next couple months And then just selling out of everything we have on the website is we're basically just looking to get the funds in folks And it's. I mean, we really don't know what's going to go down with the legal stuff. That's always kind of a mystery, except that we know they just want to destroy us and that's why they do it. Folks, I'll tell you- you know, Alex is a little more transparent, I'll say, with some of the legal stuff and you still really only get the tip of the iceberg. But man, oh man, let me tell you if and when all this is behind us. there are going to be stories to tell. I mean, I got something that happened to me yesterday morning that is just insane, Just insane. But I'm not going to say on air and I'm going to withhold it and and eventually, you know, I imagine eventually this stuff's going to be behind us and it might not go well, but it'll eventually be behind us And we'll tell the stories and I mean, look, I'm dealing with, we're dealing with you're dealing with full on authoritarian, tyrant style censorship and attack on free speech in this country. But together we're still here, we're still on air, we're still getting the great guests, we're still breaking the news and information, And so that alone is a victory. So I salute you in the audience, I salute this crew, and we will continue to fight for truth and freedom in America, using our free speech to do it, until they rip our larynx out, put a bullet through us, through our head, or throw us in a prison- And, believe me, they're considering all three. But man, oh man, I'll tell you when all this is behind us, whether for good or bad, it's just the stories that Alex and myself and others are going to be able to tell. I mean, I'm telling you folks, it's just mind blowing, because I really. I mean, obviously you got to have an ego to talk to yourself on air for three hours a day. I'm not denying I have a massive ego here, but like I don't really think of myself as that big of a deal. I think the world will turn just fine without me, whether I'm here or not. But then you go through the crap that we're going through here and you're like, wow, I mean, boy, they really want me gone, like they really hate little old me And it's just, it's just wild, But I'm going to leave it right there, Just know. I mean you're seeing a little- maybe more than the tip of the iceberg, just because of the recent stuff getting into the news and Alex being a little bit more transparent about some of the stuff that goes on behind the scenes here, But just overall, you're seeing the tip of the iceberg. when it comes to the attack, info wars is under regardless. you've kept us on air. Quite frankly, you're a miracle. You're our lifeblood And we thank you for it. So we're trying to sell out of everything at infowarstorecom. That's why all the t-shirts and apparel is on sale at cost. That's why we're selling the supplements- top rated supplements- at a discounted price at infowarstorecom. We just want to be here, folks. I don't need a million dollars, Okay. this platform right here, this ability to come on air and talk to you, is worth trillions of dollars to me. There's no amount of money that could ever fulfill that. There's no amount of money that could ever match that. Okay, So I thank you. I don't need to be a millionaire, I don't need gobs of money, I don't need a bunch of big fancy houses. Yeah, that's nice. I'm a capitalist, I'm all for that. You've got that. But that's not what we're here for, and you know it And that's why you're here. All right, let me just put away the rest of this news when it comes to Russia and Ukraine, and then we'll get into the rest of this news. in the second or, excuse me, the third hour of today's transmission, FBI seizes $90 million yacht owned by Putin ally, Victor Wecklesburg, in Spain. So now the feds and the global government, which they say doesn't exist- oh really. And why are they all going after these Russian millionaires' yachts? Hey, look, you want to complain about people being too rich and buying these ridiculous yachts that they probably use like four times a year? Hey, fine, complain all day, But let's not sit here and act like Americans. don't do that. And let's not sit here and act like it's a good thing that there's some sort of global government faction or that the FBI can go over to Spain and steal a Russian's yacht. Do you think that's a smart move by the US government? No, that's saber rattling. That's adding to the war front. That's adding to the strife between Russia and the West And it's just totally illegal. What if the FBI just goes see someone's yacht? I don't care, I don't care how bad this billionaire Russian might be- He's not chopping up kids or having pedophile island like Epstein- then leave him the damn hell alone. But oh, he's a Russian now and being Russian is a crime now. So that's what they do. They just put this marker on you like: oh, you're a Russian, therefore you're a criminal. No, Oh, you're a Trump supporter, therefore you're a criminal. No, But that's the mindset And the reason why the left buys into that just head over heels, is because it's such an intellectual, an unintellectual position to take and it's the easy way in. So they just go with the easy way in: The most unintellectual- oh yeah, Russian bad. oh yeah, a Trump supporter- bad, yeah. And they just jump on board with that because it requires zero intellect, zero critical thinking, which at this point I'm not even sure if they have the capacity to do. honestly, These people have been so soul sucked and so demonically possessed and so brainwashed. I mean, we've seen it. So this is just going to probably continue to happen, And then the goal here is for the West to isolate Putin and they want all of these millionaires and billionaires in Russia to turn against Putin. which folks? this just shows you it's not working. So the more you see this activity from the corrupt feds, the more you know that Russia's actually winning. Okay, Let me tell you, If Russia was losing, they wouldn't feel the need to go steal a bunch of Russian millionaires' property and yachts. But because Russia and Putin are winning, they have to go do that to try to isolate Putin from his own people. And it's not working. folks. And our chicken-necked nelly, pencil-needled dick Merrick Garland like: oh my gosh, See, and that's the thing is, Merrick Garland wants my head on a stick. So it's like I realize now, oh, I go on air and I say something bad about Merrick Garland. He literally has the power and the will to destroy me, But you tell me who's the bad guy. So that's just going to continue to happen and it's not going to help peace efforts And it's certainly not hurting Putin. Airbnb cancels all reservations in Russia and Belarus. Yes, if you have an account based out of Russia or Belarus, you can no longer use Airbnb. Oh, that's funny. Neither can I. I was banned from Airbnb. It doesn't matter. I had about 30,- 40 perfect five-star ratings, Never anything negative. They banned me. So that's it. You're a Russian. You're a Trump supporter. You're a criminal. No, that's not how justice works in this planet, you liars. In December of 2021, Info Wars offered the first in a three-part series, the 1776 Anti-Tyrant Coin, and it sold out in 10 days, And if it wasn't for listeners getting this original, powerful coin- a founding member coin- we would not be on air today. Now the second coin, the Liberty Tree Coin, is being offered, and it will probably sell out in 10 days again. It certainly needs to the front of operation. It is so historic and it has a quote from Thomas Jefferson about the Tree of Liberty being refreshed with the blood of Patriots and Tyrants and more. See the coin for yourself at 1776coincom. It's also at infowarstorecom. It's amazing. There's only 10,000 of them and, as a founding member, if we're able to stay on the air, we're planning something very, very special for everyone that helps us go to the next level. You can get your new Tree of Liberty coin while you still can, at 1776coincom. Ladies and gentlemen, infowarstorecom is offering the biggest sales in its over 20-year history, And that is because the economy is breaking down, inflation is exploding, the supply chains have broken down and Info Wars is having serious trouble making its payroll and paying for operations. and I do not want to implode or downsize in the face of the globalists making their main move Info Wars. it's paradoxical. it's more popular than ever, it's reaching more people than ever, despite the censorship. but because of cost increasing and having to run our own infrastructure, pay for our own bandwidth, everything else, we are running out of money. So listen: up to 75% off at infowarstorecom on things like amazing Patriot t-shirts that help spread the word and fund the operation, on supplements, on books, on films, And it's 25 to 75% off right now- the biggest sell in our history at infowarstorecom. Thank you for your support. If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance. Alright, we're in the third hour of the Alex Jones show here today and I am just going to focus and I'm going to try to get all of this news off my desk as quickly as possible and then play the video clips that I have for you today. So, without any further hesitation, let me just move on here, Berserker style, into this news. Pope Francis removes cross from event in Malta, so not to upset illegal Muslim migrants. isn't that nice? The Pope removes the cross. the Pope removes the cross at a public event. You still think this is the Pope that you're told he is? you still think this is the Catholic church as you're supposed to believe? it is No, ladies and gentlemen, this is a communist, globalist Pope that helps cover up child abuse stories that come out of the Vatican. Evil, evil everywhere. Here's up. Orban wins Hungary despite massive Soros assault. That folks I mean. I'm not going to sit here and tell you what to think about Orban, but he's a nationalist and he's against the globalist agenda of sexualizing kids and getting rid of borders. So Soros did everything he possibly could to stop Orban from getting in- probably not near the effort of what they undertook to keep Trump from getting in again, but it's a similar story just at a smaller grade. but he was able to overcome and his party is doing quite well in Hungary. So that's a very, very important asset Hungary as a country to have against the new world order agenda in that region of the world. So again, whether you like Orban or hate him, the globalists are your enemy and they don't like Orban, and so that's good news. The reason for Zelensky's surprise Grammy's appearance. you know, people are so sick of Hollywood garbage and arrogance and it's so bad that they have to fake a slap with Will Smith and Chris Rock just to drum up any hype or any ratings at all. And so now it's the same thing at the Grammys. They have to have Zelensky Skype in. I didn't watch the Grammys. I did see some stories about it. The same typical stuff. okay, here's your war propaganda. and then they had a nice little satanic performance from their favorite satanist, Lil Nas, who does videos depicting sex with Satan and who claims to be, I guess, a non-binary man who gets pregnant too. I mean, it's all satanism. Lil Nas delivers satanic performance during Grammys. He loves it, though. I mean, he loves the attention and, quite frankly, he's probably an idiot. He probably has an IQ of about 13, and so they just take advantage of him and they say, alright, here's what you're going to do and you're going to make millions of dollars, and that's how they buy your soul. They say: you're going to be rich and famous, and they find enough people that like that, and so that's what you see where they do like. oh, here's all the commentary, here's all the negative tweets, here's everything bad that they say about Lil Nas X. but look, here I am still sexualizing your kids, here I am still doing satanic performances, and I'm rich and famous. and he has no idea what's going on. He just is fulfilling his duty of performing and getting on tracks and then doing satanic performances and sexualizing the children. It's really just sad, isn't it? It's really just sad. But see, this is why, when you watch movies like The Fifth Element and they have the character portrayed by what's the actor's name? who's the host? and he's just totally goofy, dresses like a whack job, acts like a whack job- yeah, Chris Tucker, because that's the future they want. So these movies are all projection, or just like a warning, or even just foresight, which is like, yeah, this is where they want you to take you, this is where they're taking you. I mean Hunger Games. it's the same thing everywhere. it doesn't matter whether it's a movie from the 80s or the 90s or just a couple of years ago. it's the same thing. How come, in these dystopian futures with the caste system, the elite are all dressed like alien freak shows, non binary sex addicts, because that's what they're promoting to children. That's what they're telling the kids is cool and in that's what they're trying to create. We reject that. We are only offering three coins in the series. The first coin was released in December of 2021 and sold out in 10 days. Now the second coin, as we enter the last days of March into April 2022, is now being offered. I believe it will sell out in just a few days again, because these are historic coins and because our amazing listeners want to support freedom and keep in full wars at the front lines of the fight against these tyrants. So go for yourself to 1776coincom and see the new Liberty Tree coin. This is powerful. witness this powerful iconography for yourself and have this piece of history and be part of the founding member system that we're set to launch in the very near future, Thanks to your support of this project. get a historic memento that helps keep info wars on the air and also gives you a real piece of history at 1776coincom. Yeah, you're a far cry removed from the days of Johnny Cash and Johnny Carson, aren't you? No, now you got Lil Nas X sucking Satan's D and Zelensky promoting war propaganda and Stephen Colbert- not funny, but promoting vaccines all day, and a spokesman for the Democrat Party. And see, I want you to understand something. I'm going to eventually get to this stack of news over here, but I kind of want to build up to it because you need to understand where all of this funnels. So let me just give you these headlines and then retreat back to it. This is where all of this funnels. All the stuff that I'm going to cover, the cultural rot, the political rot, all the corruption, all the propaganda. this is where it all funnels. And when you have the prospectus of the death cult and the eugenics that run this planet, you get it. It's like two plus two equals four. And that's the problem, See, because that's what it is. When you go through life and you know two plus two equals four, but you keep experiencing two plus two equals five, or two plus two equals three, or two plus two equals 10, and you're like this doesn't make sense. You go insane, You become suicidal. Why so many women in middle age are on antidepressants? Wall Street Journal, Washington Post: a cry for help. CDC warns of steep decline in teen mental health. New Yorker, the mystifying rise of child suicide. former French intelligence chief: all multicultural societies are doomed. So just understand: all the stuff, everything I'm covering, it funnels into the same eugenics program. They don't have to just drop a bomb on you if they can make you so miserable that you kill yourself Now, whether that's literally jumping off a building or putting a bullet through your brain, no, you'll kill yourself with the poison food, You'll kill yourself with the poison water, You'll kill yourself with the poison drugs, Or you'll literally kill yourself. Or, if you're able to survive all of this, you'll plug into some false, synthetic reality matrix that they'll be in total control of, like the metaverse, which is being totally rejected, by the way. So that's where all of this funnels. Now let's cover the rest of this news. Amy Schumer reveals the Alec Baldwin shooting joke she wasn't allowed to make at the Oscars. So apparently I guess the Oscars checks all the jokes. That's nice. You guys are really about freedom of speech, huh? No, it's all a controlled corporate event. So she was going to make a joke about the movie Look Up, And so she said the joke was going to be: it's better to look up than to look down at the barrel of Alec Baldwin's gun. That was actually a pretty good one. That would probably be the funniest joke of the night. Not allowed to say it. So Alec Baldwin is under complete and total protection. Alec Baldwin, literally he denies. actually The gun is in his hand. the bullet goes out of the gun and through a woman's head and kills her And he says he didn't pull the trigger. Amazing, But I guess if you believe all the lies that the liberal left tells you, then, yeah, guns do whatever they want. Guns think for themselves. Guns shoot themselves. even So- I guess that's Alec Baldwin's argument- is that guns shoot themselves. It doesn't matter whose hand he's in, whose hand the gun is in. So I guess all people that killed someone or shot a gun should be innocent like Alec Baldwin, right? No, that's called liberal Democrat privilege. That's called Hollywood privilege. And then he gets protected by the Oscars producers and they say: you can't make a joke about Alec Baldwin. I have never harmed a person in my life and I've spent more time in jail than Alec Baldwin, who shot a woman dead. Now, at the very least, it's involuntary manslaughter, is it not? It doesn't matter. Alec Baldwin is a good liberal Democrat Hollywood star, so he's above the law. Me for walking outside of the Capitol. I'm dealing with millions of dollars in legal fines. Feds spending millions of dollars to come up with me. Feds pouring through all my electronic devices. right now, as we speak, I'm facing huge jail time. I've already been locked up multiple times. but see, I should not have stepped on grass outside of the Capitol. I should have been like Alec Baldwin, a good liberal, progressive Hollywood actor, and I should have shot a woman in the head. Oh wait, I'm sorry, the gun did that. He had nothing to do with it. The gun acted on its own. I demand that gun be put on trial. Just unbelievable stuff. Ukrainian MP claims Russian soldiers burned Swastika into woman's belly. so it's the same thing. Russia says it was the Ukrainians that did that. Ukrainians say it was Russia that did it. You know who knows folks, but, like our guest said, there are things we do know. The US was running at least 20 biological weapons labs. Hunter Biden's business- family business- was involved in it, as were other family members of American politicians. The media lied about it, and the lab in China that did the same thing was responsible for the COVID outbreak. Now think about this, though: It came out that the US government was taking the results from PCR tests for your nose, the nose swab, that the US government was taking DNA samples from those tests and putting it into a database. It was already well known that companies that were doing DNA testing- oh yeah, you get your DNA tested. they tell you whether you're African or Native American or Italian or whatever. if you even believe that crap, Quite frankly, I'm not even sure if I believe it, but whatever people have done, it's fun. it's curious It came out that they were selling that information. So think about it like this: You go in, innocent enough, you want to take a COVID nose swab test to see if you got COVID. Okay, that DNA sequencing may have been sold, may have been passed along. did you sign off on that? You submit a sample of your DNA. I'm not sure how they do it. they do hair or spit or whatever. I don't know, I would never do it- And you submit your DNA to these companies and they say, okay, yeah, here's your results. you're African or you're European, whatever. and then that gets shared or that gets sold. And now your DNA somehow is out there in the marketplace being sold, traded, bought, everything. And now you've got biological weapons, labs that make DNA specific weapons. That was the plot of the latest James Bond movie, by the way. No spoiler here, just telling you. I mean, folks, we are not in Kansas anymore. can't you understand the dangerous implications of all of this? Russia certainly does. Putin certainly does. hell, you can say Putin is the worst person on the planet, but he gets the dangers of that. Putin understands the dangers of having biological weapons labs that make DNA specific weapons, with all these people volunteering unwittingly their DNA out on the marketplace to be bought and sold however, however it's fit. yeah, Should you be worried about somebody making a biological weapon specifically to kill you? Probably not, but it's out, there could be done Kind of a big deal. Putin knows that the American media doesn't want you to know what's going on And of course they're bringing back the COVID fear mongering. Fauci is all excited because he saw the lockdowns in Shanghai and then the massive testing of millions of people which drove case numbers up. Go figure, Testing 25 million people, drove case numbers up. who would have thought? And so now Fauci say, yeah, we're probably gonna have to bring back lockdowns and China's doing a good job there. These people are being held prisoner in China, folks, you understand. They're literally being held prisoner and they can't even get food, And it's been two weeks now, and if you've run out of food or you've run out of stuff to drink. guess what? You're SOL. Yeah, you can try to call the government hotline to have food dropped off. You can try to call someone to have food dropped off. How do you think that's gonna go, with 25 million people starving just looking for a couple thousand people to bring them food? How do you think that's going for them? Not well, And you watch. When all of this is said and done, in Shanghai they're gonna be going into people's apartments and they're gonna find dead bodies, people that starved out, people that killed themselves. But hey, man, we're stopping COVID. I'm gonna kill you so you can't spread COVID. I'm gonna put you in a cage and lock you up so you can't spread COVID. Unbelievable stuff. Man made virus. Anthony Fauci knew about it. the American media knew about it. They covered it up. They're complicit in this mass manslaughter. Ladies and gentlemen, I need your help. I need your help keeping info wars on the air and strong. I need your help making sure that our mission continues on. I was born for this, You were born for this, And people are really waking up right now. but we had to build our own infrastructure because of the censorship and de-platforming that cost tens of millions of dollars And now, with Band-Aid video getting close to 10 million views a day, we're a platform for thousands of independent journalists and groups to be able to post their content free of charge And because it's become so successful, it's a catch 22.. Info wars and Band-Aid video have become a mothership promoting the pro-human liberty movement worldwide. but the expenses in bandwidth alone are millions of dollars a quarter, hundreds and hundreds of thousands of dollars a month. So the biggest sale in info wars history is going right now: the mega emergency blowout sale: up to 75% off, getting credible products and keep info wars as strong as ever. So I did it. I signed up for the Austin Marathon. I've been training, probably not as much as they should be, but thank goodness for prayer and thank goodness for info wars storecom. Before I start out on a run, I throw down some turbo force to give me that energy I need to get going. You know, besides the energy turbo force, it is giving me the vitamins I need, like vitamin C to keep me healthy and the essential B vitamins, plus the amino acids for sustained energy, giving me the best chance at getting through the training. And then, every day now I'm taking Dr Jones sore list. I have bad joints. Thanks, mom. This is great for giving my joints the extra support they need right now, plus inflammation support and extra flexibility. The quick release capsules help me recover fast so I can get back to the training. Even if you're not crazy enough to take on a marathon- good news- turbo force that can still give you the energy and clarity you need for every day, and sore list can keep you moving and feeling great at any age. Introducing the newest product from info wars lifecom. We are so proud of info wars life immune support. It is concentrated herbs that are known on record to supercharge our body's natural defenses. Ladies and gentlemen, this is something that is essential and everyone should get, And, on top of it, it funds the info war, So that's a 360 win. Let me tell you what is in this amazing product: Concentrated elderberry, concentrated echinacea, concentrated astragalus root, angelica root, loatium root and more. This product is incredible. info wars immune support, exclusively available at info wars storecom, is funding the tip of the spear, the info wars operation. It is a 360 win. The only way you fail is by not taking action and getting this product to boost your body's natural defenses and keep info wars on the air. The globalists are hoping you don't take action. Take action now. info wars storecom. The newest product from info wars life is now available exclusively at info wars storecom. It is concentrated known herbs and compounds that will supercharge your body's natural defenses, your immune system, All at the same time funding the info war. Our immune systems have always been critical, but in this globalist era, with all the criminal activity they're involved in, it is more important than ever to take the tools God gave us and supercharge our immune systems. Info wars life immune support is a game changer and everyone out there that wants to be healthy and wants to boost your natural defenses should get it today. Out of the gates is 25% off at info wars storecom. that a lot of other great products that boost your immune system as well, but this one is the very strongest we've got. So anybody out there that cares about their health and wants to take care of themselves needs to get this product. It's also a great gift for friends and family to boost their immune system as well. Get yours today at info wars storecom for 25% off. Reading a frontal assault on the lies of the new world order. it's Alex Jones. info wars world headquarters here in Austin, Texas, with you here today. So again, though the media celebrating Fauci, celebrating everybody, celebrating how China treats its citizens like slaves, where they're in their prison camps. You remember? oh no, it's just your apartment, but you're out of food. You can't even get food. now, Remember what it was like in Australia, where they had the quarantine camps and it was like you couldn't leave your house. they had these people in hazmat suits delivering you food. If you stepped outside on the patio at the wrong time of day, they extended your lockdown, your imprisonment. I mean, who would ever support this garbage? But see Fauci's out supporting it, because he wants to use China as the example, as the standard, so that Fauci and the Democrats can run the same operation here in America: locking you down, treating you like a prisoner under the guise of protecting you from a virus- just a total lie- a virus that they made in a lab, by the way. And so here's my problem. When I see stories like this, I can't tell you how frustrated I get, because it's the same level of- I don't even know what you would call it- ignorance, stupidity- where they say: look at what COVID did. COVID shut down the schools. COVID closed my business. COVID did this. COVID did that. COVID did none of that And the government did all of it. That is a. I mean, even the lowest IQ. people should have that understanding and they don't. It's supposed intellectuals that go on TV- academics, politicians- and they come out and they say: COVID did this. COVID did this because of the virus. because of the virus. No government did this period. end of story. end of sentence. stop Stop saying COVID. So this, this, this story, has that same energy, has that same vibe. COVID horror virus may cause brain damage, even in patients with mild respiratory symptoms. So you hear all this stuff about long COVID and COVID does this. COVID, COVID makes your penis shrink and COVID makes you lose hair and COVID makes you have brain damage and all this stuff. and- and I understand the immediate reaction to all of this, which which I tend to have as well- which is: hey, we've been lied to you so much about COVID, you've done so much fear mongering over COVID. I don't believe any of this crap. So part of me says, oh, brain damage from COVID probably just fear mongering BS like everything else. But see, here's the problem and this is why I say it's the same energy as COVID did this. COVID did this. no, the government did this. Let's say: everything they tell you about COVID is true. in regards to long COVID, or brain damage or penis shrinkage or all this other stuff they tell you, let's say it's all true. Well, again, COVID was made in a lab. it's a man made virus. So if you're going to be talking about how this virus acts differently than every other virus known in human history, and you're going to be talking about all these horrific long term effects and that's why you can't get it and that's why you should always wear the mask and never leave your house again and all this other stuff, Okay, So why aren't we mad at the people that created and released this on us? So what is the breakdown here? What is the boiled out? The frustration is not placing blame and responsibility where it belongs. That's what it is. Blaming COVID for the kids wearing masks. blaming COVID for school closures, business closures, all this other stuff. that is not the proper blame. This is zero percent accuracy, right there. Blaming COVID for any of it- zero percent accuracy, zero. Blaming the government and the corporations- and everybody did that- 100% accuracy. But what do you get from the media and your politicians? They say COVID is to blame. COVID has zero percent responsibility: The government actors and the corporate actors that foisted all the COVID madness upon us. they bear 100% possibility. If I try to go get on an airplane right now, is a virus going to pop up and tell me to wear a mask? No, Is some airline attendant going to tell me to wear a mask? Yes, So it's the same thing. Oh, COVID is causing long term problems and brain damage and all this stuff. Okay, well, who's responsible? Who made the virus? Who released the virus? So it's all this fear mongering. If you get COVID, your penis is going to shrink and you're going to have brain damage so that you're scared to death forever. You never take the mask off, You never give control of your life or take control of your life back from the government. You give it to them permanently in this state of permaphore and then you never blame the parties responsible, the individuals that made it in a lab. So just remember this When they tell you stories about long COVID and lung damage and brain damage and genital damage and all this stuff. thanks Anthony Fauci and Peter Dossick and everybody else that knew that this came in a lab and funded this research in a lab and it's just: oh, fear over COVID. Oh, my gosh, Oh, COVID, does this? COVID does that? Well, why aren't you holding the people responsible that made COVID? The frustration is going to go on, I'm sure. And then there's the vaccines, which are also killing people, Killing more people than they help, and it's not even close, by the way. But so so again, I don't want to be the person that sees every story and says, oh, vaccine, vaccine, vaccine. but it's a fair argument, like when I see this doctors stunned by baby born with two heads, three hands and one torso. So obviously the debate is raging. was the mother vaccinated? but you're not allowed to ask that question, You're not allowed to get that answer. You just see this baby that you just feel so bad for it. just a total mutant, a mutant baby. And yeah, if we start seeing more of this pop up, I think it's pretty fair to say it's probably the vaccines. but you'll never get that fair and open debate. You'll never. you'll never get that. Here was another example. last night I saw this in live time. I remember texting my friends final four basketball game: North Carolina player holds his chest, can't catch breath, sinks the floor, throws up in final minutes Now. I remember watching this and this individual player started grasping at his heart and his chest about 60 seconds before he fell over- And if you go back and watch the game you can do this, And it's just stunning how unobservant people are when dealing with this. This is the aftermath. That was about 60 seconds after he was grabbing his heart. He grabbed at his heart two possessions before that and up and down the court twice on two possessions was grabbing his heart and then he kills over and starts vomiting. Now they said he had the wind knocked out of them. Folks, I've played sports my whole life. I've had wind knocked down me plenty of times. Everybody knows when you get the wind knocked out of you, that's it. You're on the floor, You can't breathe and you need at least 60 seconds to get your wind back. You're certainly not running up and down the court for two possessions. I've never seen anybody vomit from having the wind knocked out of them either. Now maybe that could happen, but clearly this kid had something going on in his chest. He was pointing to his chest, He was grabbing his chest. It wasn't. he had the air knocked out of him. but that's just what they say, because you can't ask about the vaccines and the heart problems. I want to thank folks that got part one in the three part Founder's Series at 1776coincom or in for storecom And the second installment is the Tree of Liberty. Thomas Jefferson quote must be watered with the blood of Patriots and tyrants to coin I designed. I'm very, very proud of it And it will end up being a collectible. I know that the first coin is already selling on eBay and other places for three times what we sold it. We need to sell all 10,000 of these very, very quickly and I appreciate listeners getting over half of them now. I'd like to lose them out very quickly. I think they will sell out probably in five or six more days And without the last coin sale we would not be operating at the same capacity. We've had to lay off a lot of people and had some big problems. So it was a limited edition collectible tied to our political movement of liberty and freedom and it's needed for our infrastructure and building new systems. So please give yourself and us aid in the fight against the new world order at 1776coincom. The newest product from InfoWarsLife is now available exclusively at infowarsdoorcom. It is concentrated known herbs and compounds that will supercharge your body's natural defenses, your immune system, while at the same time funding the InfoWars. Our immune systems have always been critical, but in this globalist era, with all the criminal activity they're involved in, it is more important than ever to take the tools God gave us and supercharge our immune systems. InfoWarsLife immune support is a game changer, and everyone out there that wants to be healthy and wants to boost your natural defenses should get it today. Out of the gates is 25% off at infowarsdoorcom. Got a lot of other great products to boost your immune system as well, but this one is the very strongest we've got, So anybody out there that cares about their health and wants to take care of themselves needs to get this product. It's also a great gift for friends and family to boost their immune system as well. Get yours today at infowarsdoorcom for 25% off. Ladies and gentlemen, I need your help. I need your help keeping InfoWars on the air and strong. I need your help making sure that our mission continues on. I was born for this. You were born for this. People are really waking up right now, but we had to build our own infrastructure because of the censorship and deplatforming that cost tens of millions of dollars And now, with Band-Aid video getting close to 10 million views a day, we're a platform for thousands of independent journalists and groups to be able to post their content free of charge And because it's become so successful, it's a catch 22.. InfoWars and Band-Aid video have become a mothership, promoting the pro-human liberty movement worldwide. But the expenses in bandwidth alone are millions of dollars a quarter, hundreds and hundreds of thousands of dollars a month. So the biggest sale in InfoWars history is going right now: the mega emergency blowout sale: up to 75% off. getting credible products and keep InfoWars as strong as ever. Anything of real quality, anything of lasting durability, anything that's really satisfying and empowering and fulfilling is going to be hard to attain. And when it comes to information boy, is that true. today We see the entire global corrupt into human depopulation, great reset combine, trying to collapse our society to build on its ashes their transhumanist nightmare vision, suppressing the voices of good people all around the world and of doctors and scientists and engineers that are exposing all their lives, their COVID area, their world's gonna end in 2030, carbon tax, global warming bull, all of it, And none of it can succeed. none of it can actually be carried out unless everybody is silenced and gas lit. And that's why truth comes with hard work and with research and with diligence. And that's why it's hard to share InfoWars links and Band-Aid video Making a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones. You found it, the tip of the spear. it is the Alex Jones show with Owen Troyer. Let's say, I released a billion mosquitoes in Texas that were known to cause seizures if you got bit by it. And then all of a sudden in Texas, you had all of these seizure events happening, numbers of seizure events skyrocketing in Texas. Well, it'd be pretty obvious, wouldn't it? you'd say, okay, had you been bitten by this mosquito any time recently. have you had a mosquito bite any time recently? Oh, yes, it's like: hum, okay, I think your seizure may have something to do with it. That's common sense. But when it comes to the vaccine, oh, no, no, no, no, you don't get to ask that. So it's like, okay, known side effects of the vaccine- blood clots, heart problems- It's like, oh, wow, a lot of these people are having blood clots and heart problems. Don't ask about the vaccine, though. like, oh yeah, kids have always had blood clots and heart attacks. That's been a normal thing is what they say. Clearly it's the vaccine. Let me just try to get as much of this news off my desk as possible. I'm probably not even going to have time for all of it or these clips. exclusive army captain place in mental hospital for accusing commanding general Patrick Donahue of pushing a legal vaccine. oh, army captain put in mental hospital because he believes in medical freedom. This country is so evil, Just so evil, that this goes on. here. Federal judge blocks Air Force on giving punishment for members who refuse to take COVID-19 vaccines. So that's a judge in Cincinnati. good for him. But oh, so one judge does the right thing. but then an army captain correctly calls it an illegal vaccine mandate and he's told he needs to be placed in mental, a mental institution. That's a Chinese style reeducation camp right here for our army members in America. Mother who confronted New York City mayor Adams over toddler mask mandate, fired from city job. Oh, and I love it. New York's like moved to New York. We believe in free speech because we say gay. oh, you criticize the mayor, you're fired. These are evil people. It's beyond any shadow of it out that the vaccines are causing large numbers of deaths. That is the latest from Dr Peter McCullough: Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, moving on, the Democrats and the Republicans are going to confirm a pedophile protecting judge. to put it another way, If you were a pedophile and you ended up in a courtroom and you saw that contingent Brown Jackson was on the bench, you're feeling good, You're celebrating, Your lawyers are celebrating, You know you're going to get a light sentence. The pedophile protector is there on the bench. Politico deletes tweet claiming Judge Jackson will be first black Supreme Court justice. Isn't that hilarious? They literally claimed that Jackson would have been the first black Supreme Court justice, ignoring Judge Clarence Thomas. because that's how their mind works, folks. These people are mentally ill. They don't count Justice Clarence Thomas as the first black Supreme Court justice because he's not a deranged, mentally ill leftist liberal. I'm telling you this. You need to understand this about the race-baiting liberal movement right now. It's not about skin color, It's all about politics. They love to use tokenism for their political agenda, But if you're black or you're this or you're that and you don't support their agenda, then you don't count, including Clarence Thomas, and they just showed you their hand with that story in Politico. It has nothing to do with skin color, folks, It's all about politics, all of it. The same reason why I can't go walk into a girl's bathroom or a girl's locker room at the gym because I'm not a liberal. But if I was a good liberal and I said I'm a woman, I'm going into the woman's room, then I'd be fine, It doesn't matter, I don't have to shave, I don't have to chop off my dingling, anything. I mean I just go right in I say I'm a good progressive liberal, I'm a woman. now I go in the woman's locker room, I go shower with them and it's all good. But no, because I'm not a brainwashed liberal, I couldn't do that. That's nothing to do with science or anything. It's always politics. Contenji Brown Jackson shows leniency even in baby sex torture cases. Yeah, they're torturing little children, little babies. These cases end up on Judge Jackson's desk and she gives them a tiny little slap on the wrist. a slap on the wrist. I've dealt with worse punishment for what I've done. an innocent man, a political prisoner. I've dealt with worse punishment and I've gone through more torture than pedophiles and child sex abusers have, whose cases ended up on Judge Jackson's bench. Think about that? Actually, probably don't. It's pretty sad, It's pretty painful to think about, But it's the truth Going on, an organized crime perpetrated on Americans. experts claim in testimony at least 4.8 million ballots trafficked in the 2020 election. I mean, seriously, how many illegal votes did Biden get to get to what? 83 million? I mean, give me a break. Give me a break. Democrats implicated. Georgia ballot traffickers were using Democrat officials' offices as stopping points during ballot drop runs. And remember, in the Wisconsin hearing, they actually got the information. So they found- I believe it was 14 individuals and they did it in Georgia too. but they found the individuals who were going to ballot drop boxes multiple times a day and they were able to locate their device to track their movements. and they were going to multiple ballot drop boxes every day, going to Democrat Party headquarters every day, and it also, just so happens, they were at the riots in Kenosha as well. Hundreds of suspects filmed stuffing multiple ballots into Pennsylvania County drop boxes. Republican DA won't prosecute any of these suspects because not everyone has been identified. So I mean, folks, they're on tape, they're on camera stealing the election. I mean it's just a joke. I mean, come on, man, Do we really have to explain that Biden didn't get 83 million votes? The guy that didn't even campaign, the guy that couldn't even have a debate. President Trump requests Clinton judge who was assigned to oversee his Russiagate lawsuit against Hillary Clinton, be removed. Oh, no, no, no, no, no. That Clinton judge is going to make sure that Trump does not get a fair case. Believe me, believe me. Final suspect in Detroit-based multimillion-dollar credit card fraud ring sentenced to prison. Have you guys noticed that this is happening more and more Credit card fraud. I have now, for the third time this year, my credit card, or my debit card rather, has been involved in what they call a mass compromise event. third time this year. But we should all have the government-run digital currency because it's really safe. you know it's really safe. This arrest 26-year-old suspect over Sacramento mass shooting. did you hear about this one? You didn't hear about that one. did you? Mass shooting in California yesterday? Any news on it? Any big stories about it? No, No. Oh, there's one in Dallas too, By the way, six people died in the one in California. Did you hear any news about that? Did they make a big story about that? No, they didn't did they. Because there's never any consistency from our media, because they're just a bunch of liars that have an agenda. The southern border is just absolutely wide open folks. It's really incredible. I'm talking to a couple of journalists that are on the ground down there. It's kind of penetrating. the news Word is out around the world: The US border is wide open And Ben Bergquam and others are down there reporting. it's just unbelievable. It's just. this country is under complete attack, like the inflation, which is just crushing people, going to record highs, continuing to rise. 20 facts about the emerging global food shortage. that should chill you to the core. Yeah, they're bringing in all these people into America that you're going to be forced to feed while there's a food shortage. And plus your inflation, I mean you are getting broken right now. America is having its back broken right now by the Biden administration and the globalist. I mean it's just total crushing of America right now. Days at, or worse than, 56% disapproval for their entire terms. Biden already has the record and he hasn't even finished one term yet with 125 days lower than 56% disapproval. That's much worse than Trump, who had the entire media lying about him all day too. Here's rich liberal Democrat, Shannon Sharp. I'd rather pay 20 bucks a gallon than have Trump in office, but then he can be seen complaining about high gas prices just 10 years ago. Another liberal that owns himself, because that's what they do, because modern day liberals are frauds, phonies and liars. How many times does this have to be proven? I want to thank folks that got part one in the three part Founder Series at 1776coincom and the second installment is the Tree of Liberty. Thomas Jefferson quote must be watered with the blood of patriots and tyrants. the coin I designed. I'm very, very proud of it and it will end up being a collectible. I know that the first coin is already selling on eBay and other places for three times what we sold it. We need to sell all 10,000 of these very, very quickly and I appreciate listeners getting over half of them now. I'd like to move them out very quickly. I think they will sell out probably in five or six more days and without the last coin sale we would not be operating at the same capacity. We'd have had to lay off a lot of people and that's a big problem. So, as a limited edition collectible tied to our political movement of liberty and freedom, and it's needed for our infrastructure and building new systems. So please give yourself and us aid in the fight against the new order at 1776coincom. Bone broth is back and better than ever, and 20% off plus free shipping and double Patriot points for our new sale. After years of being off the shelves, we're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas ever and it's now been reformulated as even stronger. It's ultimate bone broth. plus, it's got concentrated high quality chicken broth protein: turmeric root- that's so amazing- chaga, musher beef pollen, goji berry, alfalfa herb powder. then it's got added magnesium and potassium for electrolytes. it's got real organic cocoa bean powder with natural chocolate flavor and a touch of sea salt. It even tastes better than last formula and what it does for your body is simply amazing. Again, it has that cutting edge chicken broth protein isolate powder for better flavor and solvability. You're going to love this and what it does for your joints, what it does for your body, it does for your bones- it's simply amazing. and it helps funding info war. This is really the best bone broth out there, so get yours at m4storecom today. April 2022 just kicked off and it's already been incredible. Klaus Schwab, Bill Gates, Joe Biden- they, along with many other New World Order operatives, have gone on national television and announced that we are now under a world government. They have a summit taking place right now in Dubai, titled World Government Summit, and they are announcing incredible tyranny. Something we've talked about is now coming true and the globalists want to take us off air. Ladies and gentlemen, we are running the biggest sale in the history of info wars. right now, In our 28 years, all info wars apparel is being sold at cost until the inventory is gone and we're never going to print these t-shirts and ball caps and info wars flags again. We may have t-shirts and apparel in the future, but I don't even know. We are blowing out of everything to get emergency funds in right now. I'm firing the bat signal and asking you to get your t-shirts at infowarstorecom. right now they're at cost. Ladies and gentlemen, infowarstorecom is offering the biggest sales in its over 20 year history, and that is because the economy is breaking down, inflation is exploding, the supply chains have broken down and info wars is having serious trouble making its payroll and for operations- and I do not want to implode or downsize in the face of the globalists making their main move In full wars. it's paradoxical. it's more popular than ever, it's reaching more people than ever, despite the censorship, but because of cost increasing and having to run our own infrastructure and pay for our own bandwidth and everything else. we are running out of money. solicit Up to 75% off at infowarstorecom on things like amazing patriot t-shirts that help spread the word and fund the operation, on supplements on books, on films. everything is 25 to 75% off right now- the biggest sell in our history at infowarstorecom. thank you for your support. Including a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones. Alright, let's continue here with the news coverage and if I can get all the news off my desk, I'll play some of these video clips in the next segment before Wayne Allen Root takes over. So what do you do if you're the Democrats and your popularity is plunging and your approval rating is plunging everywhere, and everybody knows how evil lying scum, what evil lying scum you are? Chicago to provide free gas and transit cards. so now this is California and Illinois that have the highest deficit spending rates. the states are actually broke with all their giveaways and Democrat financial policy just crushing these states, and so? but what are they gonna do as they're dead broke? they're giving things away because nobody likes them. that's what you do. nobody likes you. you just give things away. massive nationwide campaign to take on Nancy Pelosi and insider trading by Congress. Kevin Freeman, host of economic war room on the blaze- oh, another war room that took our name, that's hilarious- launched a national campaign slamming Pelosi for protecting corrupt insider trading by members of Congress. almost two million emails have already been sent to Congress. you know, nothing will ever probably be done about that until we get new leaders elected, but it's at least something to let Congress know where we stand on it. More of the timeless propaganda for the Illuminati here. maskless Kamala Harris poses for photos with masked children during visit to DC elementary school. now I've explained why they do this, folks. I'll try to make it brief. you say, why do these political leaders go and take their mask off and pose for pictures with everybody else wearing their mask on? it's a symbol of dominance, is what it is. it's an act of dominance so that a hundred years from now, just like you can look at photos from a hundred years ago during the Spanish flu pandemic, and you'll see the elites not wearing masks, people in suits and ties not wearing masks, and then everyone else around them in hazmat suits. it's the same thing. they're marking their territory, they're displaying their dominance so that when they run the same gambit in 50 or 100 years, they can show their agents: see, we run this stuff. we do this here. we did it in the 20s here, we did it in the 2020s. we dominate this planet. you are now slave owners, and all those around you wearing the mask are your slaves, and that's how they promote themselves. that's how they mark their territory in a timeless fashion. Another has left Kamala Harris' staff. the deputy chief of staff quits. 11th aid to leave Kamala Harris' staff. yeah, these people suck. no one wants to work for them and it's now considered a blithe on your resume or a blight rather than a good thing. confused puppet Joe Biden end speech. ask handlers what to do now and then creeps on a little girl. that's what he does there. he is right there getting up in that little girl's face because he's a creepo. his daughter wrote about it in his diary how he would get in the shower with her and be inappropriate. I mean, you know, this is the Biden's, after all. in fact, let's go here. here's another confused Biden in clip 9,. I mean, this is a joke. the guy doesn't even know where he is. he doesn't even know who he is. here's another example in clip 9, what do we do now? what do we do now? he has no idea. look at him running around. he doesn't know what's going on. that's the president they said. Biden tells bizarre story about big mama and how he used to drive an 18 wheeler. Biden has never driven an 18 wheeler. it's not an easy thing to do. you need training. he's never done it. he just lies. he lies about remember his Amtrak story that he's lied about like five times now that even he's been caught lying about it. the guy he claims said this to him has been dead. the guy's an, but he has dementia. he doesn't even know where he is half the time. he's got crap running down his leg half the day. Joe Biden takes a knee in official photo with sailors. for some reason. nobody knows why he took the knee, not even him. he just photo shoot posing with people in the Navy- just decided: no, I'm going to take a knee. hey, the George Floyd thing was two years ago, Joe, or more now. but he takes the knee. Hunter becomes the hunted. Senator Grassley warns of national security concerns surrounding Biden crime. family says new revelations will be presented to Senate this week. we'll see how that goes. Biden seemed to be above the law and above any media scorn either. so this is where it all goes, folks. this is what I said earlier. you need to understand. this is where it all goes. so when you ask why this is going on, remind yourself who controls the culture, who controls the education system and who currently controls the government: the globalists and the radical left wingers that are destroying our culture, destroying our country and destroying our people. they did this. all of their logic or illogic, all of their propaganda, all of their culture, all of it is destructive and deadly and they know it. they're a death cult. so you want to know why you see stories like this. look no further than the left- the radical, communist, progressive, sycophant, pedophile left- controlling culture, controlling the education system. this is what you get. why are so many women in middle ages on antidepressants? because the left wing culture has turned them into mental basket cases. CDC warns of steep decline in teen mental health. because the mentally ill left is indoctrinating them. the mystifying rise of child suicide- again, folks, this is all left wing culture destroying people's minds, destroying their psyches, leading them to suicide, and antidepressants- 100% the globalist, left wing agenda. that's why they do the gaslighting. that's why they tell you men aren't women or men are women. rather, that's why they tell you men are women, men can get pregnant, men can have periods. that's why they tell you all this nonsensical stuff. they want you to go mentally insane so that you then have to go on their killer pills or you just kill yourself. and that's why the former French intelligence chief is correct, Pierre Brochard, when he says all multicultural societies are doomed. the real quote, the real thing, is: all diversified, left wing, liberal, progressive societies are doomed. that's why America's doomed. we've gotten away from traditionalism. we've gotten away from. it's not even about conservatism or anything about. it's just what works: traditionalism. what works? a man and a woman and the nuclear family and the free market society with good, honorable people with integrity. that works. the left is anti all of that. that's why you have mass suicide rates, children suicide rates, women on antidepressants, women whoring themselves out on the internet. because the left engages in stuff like this where they say: move to New York where you can say gay, and they're just obsessed with. they're just obsessed with sexualizing the children. Seattle museum hosting sex theme drag camp for children- unbelievable. and they're grooming these children starting at age 12 at this camp on how to be sexual perverts. so it's not sports camp or arts camp, no, it's sex camp for kids now. sex camp for kids brought to you by liberals, and you watch these people all grow up to be pill headed suicide people. because that's what the left wing does folks. they know it. it's a satanic death cult. they put this crap up in the classrooms: how to be gay. I mean it's just unbelievable. I cannot teach. in Florida, LGBTQ educators fear fall out from new school law. following the enactment of what critics call the don't say gay bill, some LGBTQ teachers have quit the profession all together, saying they can't teach now. so what does that tell you, folks? it tells you everything you already knew. all they're teaching is their sexual agenda. all they're teaching is their left wing indoctrination. they're not educating children, they are indoctrinating them. they are perverting them. and so Rhonda Sanchez just simply says: hey, we're not going to teach kids about sex up to fourth grade. and then all these teachers say: well, I can't teach here anymore because it's all they teach. the kid gets there at 9am, salutes and prays to a gay flag, they get lectured about how gay their teacher is for eight hours wearing a mask and then they go home with their gay homework assignment. and so the teachers say, oh, I really don't know how to teach my kids anymore, since I can't sexualize them because it's all they do. the left student loans should be forgiven because 18 year olds were too young to fully understand what they were doing. society failed them. oh, okay. also, the left kids know their true selves. their identity should be affirmed, no matter the cost. discussion and asking questions are hate crimes. so, yeah, so 18 year olds that get a student loan got preyed upon by society. they didn't know what they were doing taking out a student loan. but hey, if you're an 8 year old kid, you're old enough to be taught how to masturbate and have anal sex and play with sex toys. because that's the liberal logic, don't you see? GOP congressional candidate believes abortion is a human sacrifice to demons. Tom Reichert, running in Colorado's 7th district, is right. parents of high school track star sucker punch during race are considering lawsuit against attacker after they were stopped from pressing charges by cops. so everybody pressed all the clip. the guy racing down the track punches out the guy ahead of him. just so happened it was a black guy punching a white guy and the parents wanted to press an assault charge. by the way, they let the kid finish the race and win it after he knocked the guy out and the police said: we'll arrest you if you press charges. We are only offering three coins in the series. the first coin was released in December of 2021 and sold out in 10 days. now the second coin, as we enter the last days of March into April 2022, is now being offered, and I believe it will sell out in just a few days again, because these are historic coins and because our amazing listeners want to support freedom and keep info wars at the front lines of the fight against these tyrants. so go for yourself to 1776coincom and see the new Liberty tree coin. it is powerful. witness this powerful iconography for yourself and have this piece of history and be part of the founding member system that we're set to launch in the very near future thanks to your support of this project. get a historic memento that helps keep info wars on the air and also gives you a real piece of history at 1776coincom. You know it's a fact and I'm not bragging when I say it, it's just true that info wars is seen by the globalist as the standard of human liberty as the logo of human, populist resistance against their transhumanist, anti human program and man. our work is really right now hitting the most important aspects of what we've ever done. so I'm asking listeners now to realize we've got great products- thousands of them at info wars tourcom- and we are funded by listeners and viewers like you, and so now we need to support more than ever because this fight is intensified. don't need me to tell you that at info wars tourcom We've got 25 to 75% off across the board right now. things have been sold out for a long time, like info wars life fizzy magnesium mix- that's so amazing and our new immune support formula- that's so critical. they're all available 25 to 75% off at info wars tourcom right now. Getting a frontal assault on the lies of the new world order? it's Alex Jones. Alright, Wayne Allen Rook, guest hosting today for the Alex Jones show. great to be on with you. I see my shirt collar is a little bit off, but other than that, all is good. guest hosting today for Alex Jones. lots of things to talk about. First of all, let me mention, for those of you who don't know me, my website is rootforamericacom. rootforamericacom, and you can always email me WayneGmailcom. my national radio show is Wayne on the Route Ron, unfiltered every single afternoon, Monday through Friday, three hours a night, 6 PM Eastern, 3 to 6 Pacific time, 5 to 8 Central time on USA Radio Network, and you can find it all at USAradiocom or at my website, rootforamericacom. Let me run through the biggest stories of the day that I think have the most importance to all of you. Just turning some lights off here, there we go. Alright, so the biggest stories of the day that I think have importance to all of you. Number one: there's a Hunter Biden grand jury going on and the witness was asked about a deal with the big guy, big guy Joe Biden. And so, for the first time, Joe Biden's name has come up in a criminal investigation, an official grand jury, criminal investigation. and don't forget, Hunter Biden has come up his name in all of the media stories: the New York Times, Washington Post. over the last month, for the first time ever, there was an admission that the Hunter Biden laptop is real and I was literally banned for life from Twitter because I brought up Hunter Biden's laptop and the stolen election and the censorship and the banning and the book burning of liberals trying to destroy us all. And Twitter confirmed that I'm right by banning me for life. and it turned out everything I said was right, Like there were three things I brought up that I felt led to my banning for life from Twitter. Number one: the election was rigged and stolen in 2020.. Number two, Hunter Biden's laptop was covered up. and number three, lockdowns are massive failures and did not work in 2020 against COVID. and all three resulted in suspensions of me by Twitter and eventually they banned me for life. So no question, in my mind I was right on all three, proven right on all three. But the big news story is Joe Biden's being brought up. Why? Why is the Hunter Biden laptop finally being acknowledged as real a year and a half after the election? Why is Joe Biden's name being brought into a criminal investigation? Well, number one, because it's all true. And number two, because, for the first time, the liberal left is realizing that Joe Biden's leading them to a massive defeat. I mean a landslide, massive defeat. So they're looking to get rid of Joe Biden, And the first guy in the country said that was me. months ago, I said Joe Biden's gone. I made a guess that maybe Hillary Clinton would be the one to somehow replace him. I'm not sure how they're going to do it, but they're going to replace Joe Biden and Kamala, because Kamala is the most hated human being in the history of the world. Everybody knows that she's unqualified for the presidency, incompetent, incredibly not bright- I'll say stupid, but I'll try to be nice and just say not a very bright person- and that she is just disliked by everyone. I don't know why it took them till now to figure it out. She's black- a half black, half Indian- And yet in the Democrat primary, where blacks make up a huge portion of the electorate, she got no black votes and had to drop out. before the first primary She was completely disliked by black Democrat voters. So why anyone thought she'd make a good VP? I have no idea. The end result is: if the media is on your side, they can lie about anything and everything. So they're finally acknowledging Hunter and Joe Biden for a specific reason and Hunter Biden's laptop for a specific reason: Hunter Biden's corruption and Joe Biden being the big guy. They got to get rid of Joe Biden. They got to bury Joe Biden. They got to throw grandpa from the train or the plane. Was that the Sly Sloan movie that was a big bomb about 30 years ago. throw grandpa from the train. I think it was. And so I'm telling you: Joe Biden needs to be thrown under the bus If they have any chance at surviving the midterms and, after that, any chance of winning in 2024, the whole country's a raid against the Democrat party. now They've got to get rid of Biden and they've got to somehow figure out the game plan to replace him and his vice president, because Kamala is incompetent and hated even more than Biden. All right, we're heading out for a break. when I get back, I've got a commentary called defund Disney. I bet you can't wait. defund Disney when we get back, introducing the newest product from info wars lifecom. We are so proud of him for his life: immune support. It is concentrated herbs that are known on record to supercharge our body's natural defenses. Ladies and gentlemen, this is something that is essential and everyone should get, and on top of it, it funds the info war, So that's a 360 win. Let me tell you what is in this amazing product: Concentrated elderberry, concentrated echinacea, concentrated astragalus roots, angelica root, low a TM root and more. This product is incredible. info wars immune support, exclusively available at info wars storecom, is funding the tip of the spear, the info wars operation. It is a 360 win. The only way you fail is by not taking action and getting this product to boost your body's natural defenses and keep info wars on the air. The globalists are hoping you don't take action. Take action now. info wars storecom. All right, we're back. Wayne Elleruth for Alex Jones. We jumped in so quickly in segment one. I was in the process of just getting ready. Now I'm settled in. Now I know what I've got to talk about. So I wanted to jump to Disney. jump for the big story about Joe Biden being the big guy and the end of the Joe Biden administration. It's coming fast, fast and furious. as the movie says, they've got to get rid of Joe Biden. But let's jump to Disney because I've never in my life seen anything like this. You know, I've never been an anti gay guy. I've always been a live and let live guy. I've been a lifelong Republican conservative, but with libertarian leanings on some social issues And, as an example, I was the libertarian vice presidential nominee in 2008.. So some of you may not know it, but I was on the ticket in 2008 when McCain ran against. Obama was Bob Barr and Wayne Elleruth. And that's me. And when it comes to gay issues, I'm not programmed that it's a gay. I just say: live and let live. You want to be gay, be gay. You want to be lesbian, be lesbian. You want to be transsexual? It's weird. It's strange, It's confused. I think it's mental illness. And if you want to be be it, You just changed my screen. So there we go, There we go. It's back. Now I can see what I'm looking at. So okay, you want to be transsexual, be transsexual. But number one: if it affects me, it's a different story. If it doesn't affect me, if you're gay in your bedroom, I don't see it, I don't care, None of my business. But you have no right. First of all, I've always argued about transsexual issues. You have no right to stuff men down by throat in a women's bathroom. You have no right to stuff men down little girl's throats in a locker room setting, in a sports setting, on a field trip setting. Men can't be women, Little boys can't be girls- And I had all my daughters. And you have no right to take little girls' scholarships away and trophies away when boys start playing girl sports. All of that is nuts. Number two: you have no right to stuff transgenders down the military's throat. You have no right to say transgender should be in the military, because if they're in the military, the reason why isn't because they're brave heroes, it's because they want free transgender surgery. sex change surgery costs 100 to $150,000.. Look at your screen. Aren't you proud of that? There's your military dollars in action. But here's the deal. You could be what you want to be. This person could be whoever they want to be- strange, weird to normal people. but you have no right to take my taxpayer money and have a sex change operation in the military or in prison. No taxpayer dollars should ever be spent because a person's mixed up and confused what their sexual identity is. So I'm not anti-gay, I'm anti-all of that, which is ridiculous. Now along comes this new stuff that I had no idea that our children were being groomed in kindergarten, first grade, second grade and third grade. It's literally to be gay, to be lesbian, to be transgender, to change their sexual identity and to think that's a good thing. And I don't believe there's very many parents in America who approve of that Liberal or conservative. I think the Virginia election proved that while the mama bears came out and they elected the Republican governor of Virginia. that no one thought was possible. No one thought it was even possible. Virginia's become not purple but a blue state, But yet it turned big time red. they elected a Republican governor and an old Republican legislature. over the issues of critical race theory in school, school closures for COVID, masks in school, vaccines in school and transgender sexual identity education taught in school. All of that led to all the mothers of Virginia switching to the Republican Party. So if Democrats want to make this their hill to die on, as the saying goes, fame is saying- and I'm not talking about violence here, I'm not talking about murdering anybody. please don't misconstrue my words. a hill to die on is one of the most famous sayings in history. And if Democrats want to make this issue their hill to die on- I'm talking about the political party's death, I'm talking about their campaigns being destroyed- then you make it the hill to die on. I'm all for it. I'm cheering you, I'm gonna high five you. it's great. make it the hill to die on. make it the centerpiece issue of the Democrat Party that transsexuality, transgender identity, changing your sexual identification, gay and lesbian education from kindergarten through third grade should be taught in all the schools. you do that and you watch what happens, in November you're gonna lose all 50 states. you're not gonna lose 50, 60 seats in a house landslide, you're gonna lose 80 to 100 seats in a house landslide. you're gonna lose the Senate by 10 seats. you're gonna be slaughtered, politically destroyed, demolished. the end of the Democrat Party because American parents don't support this kind of mental illness. they don't support grooming and brainwashing their children. And so shocking to me was Disney deciding to get involved in this thing. and it's interesting because I wrote a book, The Great Patriot Protest and Boycott book- that identifies all the companies in America that take our dollars. as conservatives, patriots, Christians, people who love this country and American exceptionalism, they take our dollars, they get rich, their stocks go up, they make a lot of money. everybody gets rich on us- and then they spit in our faces. and I identified 116 woke companies that do that and Disney was right at the top of the list. and I gave you the phone number and the names of Disney CEO and chairman of the board and board of directors and I give you their email, their phone number, their social media sites and their physical address for snail mail to go after them to let them know we're gonna boycott them, never buy from them again and put them out of business with their sick, mentally ill political views, and Disney's right at the top of the list. so please check out my book, Great Patriot Protest and Boycott book. it's the perfect book for the perfect time to defund Disney. the worst idea in the history of the world was to defund the police and the result is: all over the United States, blue cities run by Democrats are being destroyed by crime, violent crime, murders, gangs, gang rapes, home invasions, shoplifting. not just shoplifting like I'm grabbing one bottle of soda. I'm talking, as you all know, gangs of thugs running into stores and, with hammers and axes and pickaxes and whatever they've got their hands on, they're breaking the case. they're stealing a million dollars in jewelry or they're cleaning out drugstores of $1500 worth of goods, because anything below 1500 is just a ticket, an appearance ticket, or anything below 1200 or 1000, every city has a different number, but they- basically all these Democrat cities- have legalized crime and they've legalized shoplifting. so what's happened is Democrat cities have been just destroyed- destroyed. it's a terrible thing, and our country is being destroyed by the Democrat Party. When I get back, we got about what? two minutes to go. I'm gonna read you defund. gonna read you defund Disney. my latest commentary, what we've got to do to defund Disney and how wrong they are. but on the way out here I wanna mention the funniest story of the week because it involves what Disney believes in: that they've gotta stop this new Florida law at all costs. Disney will put all their prestige and credibility and power and money behind stopping the wonderful new law in Florida by Governor Ron DeSantis. that should be the law of the land. it should not be the law of Florida. it should be the law of every state in America that you cannot groom and brainwash children between kindergarten and third grade and it should be the law. you can't brainwash them between kindergarten and 12th grade in all 50 states. it's not a school's job to say gay is bad, transgender is bad or gay is good, transgender is good. public schools should stay completely out of politics and religion. it's none of their business. it's parents' job to teach children whether gay is good or gay is bad- none of your business. and transgenders, kindergartners don't need to know about it and it shouldn't be taught anymore. But the mayor, one minute to go, the mayor of New York City, Eric Adams, who was supposed to be a moderate Democrat, is now paying for a billboard campaign in Florida that if you don't like how they're treating you as a gay person, please move to New York. and I'm just laughing. first of all, there's no parent, no normal parent, in America that doesn't like this new law in Florida- none. so it shows that Eric Adams was a liar and a fraud. he's not a moderate and he has bad taste. he has no clue what people believe in. he's on the wrong side of this issue by a mile, by a landslide. but more importantly, if you live in Florida and you want children to be brainwashed to change their sexual identity like I change a pair of socks, then it's the best thing that ever happened to Florida that all those people believe that should move to New York. good luck to New York. goodbye New York, have a nice life. I'm Wayne Allyn Root and I'll be right back. guest host for Alex Jones today. rootforamericacom Wade Root at gmailcom. The propaganda would not be necessary if the situation was hopeless. they need all their propaganda and all their lies and all their evil and all their cultural death because they know we are strong and they know in the end they signed on the god of this world who is a loser? and that's why it's so important that everybody keep in full wars in the air, now more than ever, because even if you don't believe in God, what the globalists are manifesting setting up is they can and we are opposing the one world government and the mark of the beast they just announced. In December of 2021, Info Wars offered the first in a three-part series, the 1776 Anti-Tyrant Coin, and it sold out in 10 days, and if it wasn't for listeners getting this original, powerful coin, a founding member coin- we would not be on air today. But now the second coin, the Liberty Tree Coin, is being offered and it will probably sell out in 10 days again. It certainly needs to be front of operation. It is so historic and it has a quote from Thomas Jefferson about the Tree of Liberty being refreshed with the blood of Patriots and Tyrants and more. See the coin for yourself at 1776coincom. it's also at infowarstorecom. it's amazing. there's only 10,000 of them and, as a founding member, if we're able to stay on the air, we're planning something very, very special for everyone that helps us go to the next level. So get your new Tree of Liberty coin while you still can at 1776coincom. Ladies and gentlemen, infowarstorecom is offering the biggest sales in its over 20-year history and that is because the economy is breaking down, inflation is exploding, the supply chains are broken down and info wars is having serious trouble making its payroll and paying for operations. and I do not want to implode or downsize in the face of the globalists making their main move Info wars. it's paradoxical. it's more popular than ever, it's reaching more people than ever, despite the censorship. but because of the cost increasing and having to run our own infrastructure, pay for our own bandwidth, everything else, we are running out of money. So listen: up to 75% off infowarstorecom on things like amazing patriot t-shirts that help spread the word and fund the operation, on supplements, on books, on films- everything is 25 to 75% off right now- the biggest sell in our history at infowarstorecom. Thank you for your support. In December of 2021, info wars offered the first in a three-part series, the 1776 anti-tire cent coin, and it sold out in 10 days. And if it wasn't for listeners getting this original powerful coin, a founding member coin, we would not be on air today. Now the second coin, the Liberty Tree coin, is being offered and it will probably sell out in 10 days again. It certainly needs to in front of operation. It is so historic and it has a quote from Thomas Jefferson about the tree of liberty being refreshed with the blood of patriots and tyrants and more. See the coin for yourself at 1776coincom. It's also at infowarstorecom. It's amazing. There's only 10,000 of them and, as a founding member, if we're able to stay on the air, we're planning something very, very special for everyone that helps us go to the next level. So get your new tree of liberty coin while you still can at 1776coincom. Getting a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones. All right, I'm back. Wayne Alleroot, back for segment number three. Great to be guest host on Tuesdays for the Alex Jones show on a regular basis. Thank you, Alex, for a wonderful opportunity to get my views out there to the whole world, and I know the whole world's watching. I've mentioned this on your show before. Years ago I used to go on Fox News a lot. I was on a lot of big Fox News shows, from Glenn Beck to Sean Hannity to you name it- all the big names on Fox and Friends in the morning. all the time And every time I went on, I would get 20 to 30,- once in a while as many as 50- text emails and phone calls from friends and fans- many of whom were friends from high school, junior high school, elementary school, who hadn't seen me or spoken to me in years, and say, oh my gosh, you're famous. I just saw Wayne on Fox News. I can't believe it, you're great. And that would be great. That was the proof to me how powerful Fox News was. Nothing else I ever went on would get me 30 to 50 people saying: Wayne, I just saw you until I did Alex Jones as guest host and as a guest on Alex Jones. And suddenly everyone I've ever known in my life comes out of the woodwork and says: I saw you at Alex Jones today. That just tells you that Alex Jones is kind of the secret passion of so many people in this country who maybe don't brag to everyone in the world. they watch him because they're nervous of what people think. They're nervous to say I'm a Trump fan. They're nervous to say I'm a Republican or a conservative. They're nervous to say I don't support transgender education to kindergartners. They're scared to lose their jobs And Alex Jones is high up on that list They may be scared to tell the world. I watch Alex Jones every day, but they do, clearly, because I get as many people seeing me on this as I've ever gotten on Fox News or anything else I've ever done in my entire life. So that's the deal: Some of the stories that are important out there. remember, I said at the beginning of the show that I said the election was rigged and stolen in 2020.. And, of course, the media ignored it and told me I'm a terrible person and I'm a fool and I'm a liar. So many things came out in the last week that would back up my claims. First of all, an organized crime was perpetrated on Americans. experts on voting fraud testified in Wisconsin in front of the state legislature yesterday And they said an organized crime was perpetrated on Americans. At least 4.8 million ballots were trafficked in the 2020 election. This was Catherine Inglebrecht and Greg Phillips from True the Vote testified in front of the campaign and elections committees in Wisconsin about ballot drop boxes and ballot trafficking And they've got the proof that there were so many fraudulent by the millions ballots trafficked in the United States. The exact thing I warned about and reported on and said happened is true. Here's a Pennsylvania story. hundreds of suspects filmed stuffing multiple ballots into Pennsylvania County drop boxes and they've got them on tape. So again, and the stories keep coming up and coming up and coming up. I have so many in front of me, I'm trying to find more of them. breaking exclusive: The US Postal Service is withholding investigative report on the whistleblower truck driver who says he hold 288,000 suspicious ballots across state lines before the 2020 election. implicated Democrats in Georgia. Georgia ballot traffickers were using Democrat officials offices as their home base during ballot drop runs. I mean, the list goes on and on. The election was stolen, the election was stolen. the election was stolen. And the number one thing you need to ask every Republican running for every office in America in every GOP primary coming up this year in the coming few weeks and months is: do you believe the 2020 election was rigged and stolen against President Trump and any candidate who says no or who hymns and hoes or whose talks in a circle and won't give you an answer, knock them out, never let them win. We don't want one candidate running for office as a Republican who won't admit the election was stolen. And why did they rig and steal the election? It's happening right now so they can brainwash your children with transgender and with sexual identity education, And so they could brainwash your children with critical race theory. And so they can mask us and vaccine, mandate us and lock us down for the rest of our lives. And so they can open the borders and let everyone in. So no Republican will ever win an election again and you change the demographics of America. So America isn't filled with Americans anymore, It's filled with foreigners who actually hate America and hate you and want to outvote you and give themselves welfare for the rest of their lives while you starve and the money's redistributed from you to them as an American citizen, to an illegal alien. That's why they rigged and stole the election And I don't know if even winning big in November will change that, But sure we've got to do it. We have no choice, because the alternative is to lose in November. if Republicans don't win in a landslide whiteout in November, It's all over. America's finished And America may be finished right now. May 23rd is the date Title 42 will be removed And Joe Biden is going to let the entire world overrun America, And we found out today from Homeland Security leak documents. this is their plan. I keep trying to tell you this is their plan. I learned it at Columbia University. I graduated, I was attended Columbia 79 through 83, graduated class of 83 with my supposed classmate Barack Hussein Obama. And what did I learn at Columbia? clowered piven. Clowered piven is a plan to destroy the United States by overwhelming the system with people on welfare. And they figured out all these years later that if they can't do it with Americans on welfare, they will open the borders and let every foreigner in the world in and destroy America by getting every foreigner, every illegal alien. they let in on welfare and food stamps and housing allowances and aid to dependent children and free medical. that will wipe us out and destroy our hospitals and free public schools for their kids. that will wipe us out and bankrupt the school system and give them free college. Being free you can ever give them, they'll give them insanity, insanity. What's our time? How much time? we have left One third Minute or so. All right, here's another story. I got right. I said that Democrat cities are going to be overwhelmed with crime and homelessness. Seattle's crime surge spreads statewide thanks to Democrats progressive policies. Should I tell you that George Soros was putting money to elect Democrat district attorneys who are really communist and they're going to let every criminal out, even murderers and rapists and violent carjackers and violent home invaders, And that will lead to a massive surge of crime like nobody has ever seen before. And that's exactly what's happening in every big city in this country. You think of Chicago, you think of Baltimore, you think of Detroit, you think of New York, you think LA, but you think of Newark or Camden or New Orleans. You don't really think of Seattle as being one of those cities. Seattle is overrun with crime because every criminal gets out. You don't think of my hometown as Las Vegas as being overrun with crime. Our strip is overrun with crime and a homeless vagrant stamped to death an off duty police officer just days ago on the Vegas strip. If a police officer isn't safe walking the Vegas strip among crowds, what hope is there for the rest of us? That's how bad it's getting in the United States of America Thanks to lenient criminal policies by Democrats. We'll be right back. Ladies and gentlemen, I need your help. I need your help keeping info wars on the air and strong. I need your help making sure that our mission continues on. I was born for this. You were born for this. People are really waking up right now. but we had to build our own infrastructure because of the censorship and deplatforming that cost tens of millions of dollars. And now, with Band-Aid video getting close to 10 million views a day, we're a platform for thousands of independent journalists and groups to be able to post their content free of charge. And because it's become so successful, it's a catch 22. info wars and Band-Aid video have become a mothership promoting the pro human liberty movement worldwide. but the expenses in bandwidth alone are millions of dollars a quarter, hundreds and hundreds of thousands of dollars a month. So the biggest sale in info wars history is going right now: the mega emergency blowout sale up to 75% off. getting credible products and keep info wars as strong as ever. I want to thank folks that got part one in the three part founder series at 1776: coin dot com or info or store dot com. And the second installment is the tree of liberty, Thomas Jefferson quote must be watered with the blood of patriots and tyrants. It's a coin I designed. I'm very, very proud of it and it will end up being a collectible. I know that the first coin is already selling on eBay and other places for three times what we sold it. We need to sell all 10,000 of these very, very quickly and I appreciate listeners getting over half of them now. I'd like to move them out very quickly. I think they will sell out probably in five or six more days And without the last coin sale we would not be operating at the same capacity. We would have had to lay off a lot of people and that's a big problem. So it was a limited edition collectible, tied to our political movement of liberty and freedom, and it's needed for our infrastructure and building new systems. So please give yourself and us aid in the fight against the new order at 1776 coin dot com. introducing the newest product from info wars life dot com. We are so proud of info wars life immune support. It is concentrated herbs that are known on record to supercharge our body's natural defenses. Ladies and gentlemen, this is something that is essential and everyone should get, and on top of it, it funds the info war. So that's the 360 win. Let me tell you what is in this amazing product: Concentrated elderberry, concentrated echinacea, concentrated astragalus roots, angelica root, loatium root and more. This product is incredible. Info wars immune support, exclusively available at info wars store dot com, is funding the tip of the spear, the info wars operation. It is a 360 win. The only way you fail is by not taking action and getting this product to boost your body's natural defenses and keep info wars on the air. The globalists are hoping you don't take action. Take action now. info wars store dot com. We are only offering three coins in the series. The first coin was released in December of 2021 and sold out in 10 days. Now the second coin, as we enter the last days of March into April 2022, is now being offered and I believe it will sell out in just a few days again, because these are historic coins and because our amazing listeners want to support freedom and keep info wars at the front lines of the fight against these tyrants. So go for yourself to 1776 coin dot com and see the new Liberty tree coin. It is powerful. Witness this powerful iconography for yourself and have this piece of history and be part of the founding member system that we're set to launch in the very near future, Thanks to your support of this project. Get a historic memento that helps keep info wars on the air and also gives you a real piece of history. at 1776 coin dot com, Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the new world order. It's Alex Jones. All right, wait on the route back again. a little housekeeping to let you know where you can reach me. You can always find me at root for America dot com. That's my website. What do I do all day? a route for America easy to remember. I love this country. for America dot com. How much do I love this country? My political career began at the age of three when I was handing out literature for Barry Goldwater in my father's arms at a train station in Malvern in New York. That's where I was born: Malvern in New York, Malvern hospital on the Bronx borderline. and America was a very different country back then. but I was a big fan of Barry Goldwater at the age of three. So my patriotic roots go back an awful long way. I'm 60 years old. That was 57 years ago. I started as a Republican at the age of three, Republican conservative. My dad, by the way, was a butcher. I'm an SOB, son of a butcher and my dad the butcher answered an ad in the New York City newspaper in 1962 when I was two years old If you think the Republican party is too liberal and a bunch of sellouts. so rhinos come to the very first meeting of the conservative party of New York and my dad attended and became one of the founders and leaders of the New York State conservative party, even though he's a butcher. It was a bunch of big shot lawyers and businessmen and one blue collar butcher, David Root, and my mom, Stella Root, who founded the New York State conservative party and they became the leaders of Westchester County And I grew up handing out literature for Republican candidates who had the endorsement of the conservative party and and literally running campaigns for candidates at the age of 15 and 16 and 17 and 18.. There were a lot of big shots who are very unhappy about that at the time and very jealous of me, but I actually was named the campaign manager for a guy running for United States Congress at the age of 18 and a lot of people were upset, but I did a great job anyway. That's my background. I was on a roll letting you know some of the big issues going on in America today that I was right about, You know. I hate to say I told you so, but I told you so. I said that Black Lives Matter was a fraud from day one and the reason they're a fraud is that every day, black Americans, including kids, are killed on the streets of every big city in America by other black Americans. So how is the most important issue in the world The one time a year a white cop shoots a black guy, even if he's a criminal with a long record, who was once convicted of murder or in jail for drug dealing or beating women or putting a gun against a pregnant woman's belly, and that guy gets in a fight with cops and that causes nationwide rioting and billions of dollars by American corporations to go to Black Lives Matter. but all the thousands of black people murdered by other black criminals in America- Remember, 99% of black people are nice people- 1% of these big cities are thugs and criminals and they're holding the 99% hostage. and the police are there to protect the 99% of good black people who don't want to be held hostage in their homes, can't walk out at night, can't step out in their cars. They can be shot on a street corner. They can be shot drug dealers everywhere. They want to be, just like you and me, safe Cops doing a great job to keep them safe. but a couple of times a year a white cop shoots a black guy who maybe was unarmed or maybe was trying to grab the gun at a cop, while the black guy was unarmed and that becomes the biggest racist issue in the world. but Black Lives Matter couldn't care less when thousands of black people killed thousands of black people. It's fraud, It's complete fraud. They don't care when a black guy's killed, They only care a nice black person killed by a criminal. They only care if a white cop shoots somebody. and now you find out Black Lives Matter purchased $6 million Los Angeles mansion with their donors money. This is not the first time this has come out in the news. This was in the news this morning, but I've seen it 20 times in the last few months that the founders of Black Lives Matter, who started out with nothing, who are all communists, mostly communist lesbians, who hate men and don't want men to head households, and they communist, lesbian, black lives matter founders, suddenly have multi-million dollar homes, Lots of them. Where do you think the money came from? It's all fraud, Complete fraud. Here's another great story: California city to give universal income to transgender residents and non-binary residents, regardless of earnings. So Palm Springs has decided to give basically $1,000 a month to anyone who's transgender, even if you make a million dollars a year Because if you're transgender, somehow they believe you deserve it. I don't know, It's so bizarre. I always said affirmative action is absolutely absurd, because if it's racist to say you can't have a job because you're black, it's just as racist to say you can't have a job because you're white. and I'm going to give it to a black person who may not be qualified for the job, but I gave it to him because the color of their skin- and this is the exact same story- Because you're born transgender or because you think you've changed your identity and now you are non-binary? someone please Google for me What does non-binary mean? Are you a fish? Are you a frog? Do you think you could change from male to female depending on your mood of the day, and tomorrow you're a man and the next day you're a woman? That must be what non-binary means. It's a frog or a fish. is can go from one to the other. How people think they could go from one to the other. See, being gay is not a mental illness. being gay is what you are. You're born gay. But being a person who believes you can change from man to woman is pure mental illness and we are starting to celebrate the absurd and the perverse in America and trying to make it seem normal, and we're trying to make normal people seem weird, and Disney's the king of that. What do I have left now, time wise? Do I have enough for three minutes? Not enough to read to fund Disney? So I've been promising, I've been threatening I'm going to read you D-Fund Disney. I will get to it to start the next segment so you can hear my plan to D-Fund Disney, But I need about six minutes to read it, not three minutes. So in the last three minutes, I will mention the number one issue in America today. It's a new show I'm looking to put on the air. by the way, I'm negotiating with several different online TV networks and real TV networks to put my show on the air and the show is going to be called America's Top 10 Countdown. I think what we need is, like Casey Kasem, I want to be the conservative Casey Kasem. He counted down America's Top 40 and this is my podcast every week, by the way, on Fridays, and you can find that at root4americacom- root4americacom. and you can email me anytime, weighingrootatgmailcom, but every Friday- and there's my website, root4americacom. There's my book on the website, The Great Patriot, Protest and Boycott Book, and we can lead the boycott of Disney. We all can Grab a copy of my book and I'll show you how, because I'll give you the phone number of Disney's CEO and chairman of the board and important board members and their address and their social media. all of that in my book, The Great Patriot, Protest and Boycott Book, which has been number one, by the way, at amazoncom and at Barnes and Noble quite a few times in the last few months. So grab a copy and I'll show you how to defund Disney. My new book is coming up, by the way, it should be out in about 60 days. It's called The Great Patriot Boycott, not Boycott Boycott Book, because I'm going to show you the companies to buy from instead of Disney and Coca-Cola and Ben and Jerry's Ice Cream, instead of all the Delta Airlines, instead of all the bad companies that support communist causes and causes that are against American exceptionalism. I will show you how to support companies that support patriots and Christians and conservatives and people who are family oriented and believe in Judeo-Christian values. The Great Patriot Boycott Book. that'll be out in about 60 days. but the way they're destroying America is through this Title 42 plan to eliminate Title 42 and leaked Homeland Security documents came out. today. Border Chief Alejandro Mayorkas is directing this plan to let every single illegal in the world into America and to eliminate all chances to ever send them back. This is a purposeful- as I've said from day one, communist attack on the United States of America to destroy America once and for all and to wipe out the middle class. that's you. to wipe out the silent majority. that's you. and it's happening and we've got it in writing. I always said it was part of clowered pivot that I learned at Columbia University alongside my communist classmate, Barack Hussein Obama. This is how they're destroying the United States: by overwhelming this country and this economy with foreigners on welfare who don't believe in American exceptionalism, who don't know American history, who don't speak English and who want welfare from cradle to grave. I'm Wayne Allyn Root. We'll be right back. I'm guest host of The Alex Jones Show. right now, We are only offering three coins in the series. The first coin was released in December of 2021 and sold out in 10 days. Now the second coin, as we enter the last days of March into April 2022, is now being offered and I believe it will sell out in just a few days again, because these are historic coins and because our amazing listeners want to support freedom and keep info wars at the front lines of the fight against these tyrants. So go for yourself to 1776coincom and see the new Liberty Tree coin. It is powerful. witness this powerful iconography for yourself and have this piece of history and be part of the founding member system that we're set to launch in the very near future, thanks to your support of this project. Get a historic memento that helps keep info wars on the air and also gives you a real piece of history at 1776coincom. This is nothing less than martial law, and one big thing you can do to fight back is to get high quality Faraday cages, many of which are made here in America and are very compliant, meaning US government military grade. at infowarstorecom, We have the entire line of silent pocket ready to ship to you when you visit infowarstorecom Again. we have big backpacks, we have special dry bags. we've got them for cell phones, we've got them for laptops, we've got them for iPads. it's all there at infowarstorecom. So protect your privacy today and support the info war at infowarstorecom. In December of 2021, info wars offered the first in a three part series, the 1776 anti tyrant coin, and it sold out in 10 days. and if it wasn't for listeners getting this original powerful coin- a founding member coin- we would not be on air today. Now the second coin, the Liberty Tree coin, is being offered and it will probably sell out in 10 days again. It certainly needs to be front of operation. It is so historic and it has a quote from Thomas Jefferson about the tree of liberty being refreshed with the blood of patriots and tyrants and more. See the coin for yourself at 1776coincom. it's also at infowarstorecom. it's amazing. there's only 10,000 of them- and as a founding member and were able to stay on the air. we're planning something very, very special for everyone that helps us go to the next level. So get your new tree of liberty coin while you still can at 1776coincom. The newest product from info wars life is now available exclusively at infowarstorecom. It is concentrated known herbs and compounds that will supercharge your body's natural defenses, your immune system, while at the same time funding the info war. Our immune systems have always been critical, but in this globalist era, with all the criminal activity they're involved in, it is more important than ever to take the tools God gave us and supercharge our immune systems. Infowars life immune support is a game changer and everyone out there that wants to be healthy and wants to boost your natural defenses should get it today. Out of the gates is 25% off at infowarstorecom. got a lot of other great products to boost your immune system as well, but this one is the very strongest we've got, so anybody out there that cares about their health and wants to take care of themselves needs to get this product. It's also a great gift for friends and family to boost their immune systems as well. Get yours today at infowarstorecom for 25% off. Feeding a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones. All right, welcome back. Wayne Alleruk. guest host for Alex Jones on Tuesdays from noon to one PM Pacific time, which would be three to four o'clock East Coast time Most Tuesdays. not next Tuesday, because I'll tell you what's coming up. something really special in my life is coming up next Monday and I'll be flying back all day on Tuesday. so I'll miss this show Tuesday, but I'll be here the week after, But I'm flying to Florida on Sunday. First of all, I haven't been here on the Alex Jones show for about two weeks because I had my honeymoon with my lovely wife, Cindy, at Mar-a-Lago Donald Trump's estate, and we had a wonderful time. I wrote a commentary about it. You can find it at rootforamericacom and I wrote how. for all the Trump haters of the world out there, you'll be very upset to learn that President Trump was looking confident and strong and carefree and absolutely, in my opinion, will be running for president again in 2024 as the clear frontrunner, not just to win the Republican nomination- That's a fate of complete, He will be the Republican nominee if he runs- But to win the election, and he looks the best of his life. he looks fantastic. So all the Trump haters heads will explode when they hear that. I had a great time in Mar-a-Lago and if you want to know the full story, go to rootforamericacom and I've got the whole commentary there. But here's what happened. I was booked about two months ago to be the speaker at Club 45 in Florida- Palm Beach, Florida, to be exact- On April 11th, that's next Monday night. that is the biggest Trump club in the world And every month they have the biggest Republican politicians and Republican stars in America- conservative stars. They fly them in and they give a speech in front of thousands at their events for Club 45. So I was booked for about two months now to give that speech. But President Trump found out I was giving that speech and he's never gone to a Club 45 event before and he's never spoken at a Club 45 event. And so he found out I was speaking and he said: Wayne Root speaking, count me and I'll be there. So it's now a Wayne Root- Donald Trump event and a Wayne Root- Donald Trump speech, or, as Trump would probably want it said, a Donald Trump- Wayne Island Root speech, an event. And it sold out every ticket in 20 minutes, And so 6 pm East Coast time on Monday night in Palm Beach, Florida, I will be speaking with, alongside President Trump. It'll be just the two of us on stage as a tag team, like the World Wrestling Federation, And we'll have the time of our lives. I'll bet you that audience will hear two of the most passionate, high-energy Republican speeches they've ever heard. And God bless America. the son of a butcher speaking alongside the former leader of the free world, President Donald J Trump. What a great honor. Thank you for coming to my event, President Trump, Where he speaks, he will be listening to my speech and that is a great honor to have him in the audience while I deliver my speech. There it is up on the screen: Club 45,, Wayne Island, Root and President Trump. All right, I promised you D-Fund Disney and I promised I'd get to it. Here it is. I wrote this commentary. My columns are naturally syndicated by newspapers and conservative websites. My great friend and co-author, Nikki Ballew, and I recently released our first book together: The Great Patriot Protest and Boycott Book. It's a book that lists 116 woke corporations and condemns their fear-driven assault on normal, traditional Americans. We show conservatives, Christians, capitalists and patriots how to fight back against these gigantic, woke, anti-American corporations who are spinning at our faces while we make them rich by buying their products. And one of the companies on our list right at the top is Disney Corporation. I must have had a crystal ball. I knew that Disney would become the center of attention And lo and behold, Disney just became the poster child for our struggle to save America. They have got to be our Mona Lisa, our great masterpiece, proving that we conservatives, Christians and patriots can successfully cancel woke companies that offend and spit in the face of conservatives. Once we hurt Disney in the pocketbook and bring them to their knees, this will serve as exhibit A for how the silent majority can take back America. Disney could very well be the worst offender we've ever seen. With their arrogance and radical beliefs, they've made themselves the target of 80 million plus Trump conservatives. And yes, I said that for a reason. Trump got 74 million votes. I believe he has 80 million votes in the last election. Disney has made it easy to hate Disney. They have no one but themselves to blame. Disney has chosen a hill to die on. there's that famous saying. again, they want to overturn the new Florida law that stops the indoctrination of little children from pre kindergarten through third grade with woke sexual gender identity, brainwashing and transgender equality education. Keep in mind we're only talking about five to eight year olds. What parent could possibly disagree with stopping the brainwashing of kindergarten through third grade, five to eight year olds? What parent visiting Disney could possibly disagree, whether it's Disney World or Disneyland? What parent could disagree? They couldn't. But Disney doesn't care. They are intent on alienating the tens of millions of parents who don't believe that five to eight year olds should be sexualized at school and who also don't believe those same five to eight year olds should be taught to change their sexual identity like I change a pair of sneakers. Can you imagine? Disney has chosen this hill to die on. They're crazy, They're out of their minds, They're risking their entire company and they made a very bad bet. Let's call them on it. The president of Disney recently bragged that she will make sure that half of all characters in Disney movies and television shows and videos are either gay, lesbian, trans or minorities. I have no problem with that. You want to do that? Do it. America's a free country, But I hope she and her Disney board of directors and her Disney CEO and her Disney chairman of the board have no problem if I have free speech and if conservatives like me, tens of millions of us and Christians and patriots decide to never again visit any Disney theme park. There is the president of Disney television on the screen right now. She made a point of bragging that she has two children. One is transgender and the other is gender fluid. Folks, I don't even know what these mentally ill people are talking about and I don't really care. I just want them to keep their education away from my children. They're brainwashing away from my children And you know what else? They're strange children away from my children. This is weird stuff. So if no patriot and no Christian and no conservative ever again goes to a Disney theme park or ever again spends a dime on a Disney product, I wonder how Disney will feel about our free speech. All is fair in war, right, And this is a war between Disney and America, American values, American exceptionalism and Judeo-Christian values. This is a far cry from the vision of Disney's founder, the iconic Walt Disney, a true American patriot and hero who wanted to create movies and television shows that were family-oriented and wholesome to entertain the whole family. Disney made billions of dollars from brilliantly executing on Walt Disney's vision. My co-author, Nikki Blue, and I outlined in our book exactly what to do. We provide the names of Disney's chairman of the board, Disney's CEO, their phone numbers, their email addresses, their social media addresses and their physical addresses. All of this information is provided in a directory in the back of our book called The Great Patriot, Protest and Boycott Book for 116 woke companies that you can protest, boycott, strike and put out of business. Disney just became our number one target. First, I want you to look up the email address and the address for Disney and its key senior executives and then bombard them with polite- be polite, but firm messages that you will choose to boycott Disney for their woke choices. Secondly, and if you go to my website, Root for America, I'll show you an example of a letter you should send them. Secondly, follow through: stop doing business with Disney. Don't buy anything from Disney, don't watch anything from Disney. post on social media and encourage others to stop doing business with the. make Disney pay. Third, sign up to our email list at rootforamericacom and join the army of God fearing patriotic Americans who are fed up with woke corporations who take our money and then spit in our faces. Businesses exist to serve their customers, to solve our problems, to make our lives better. They do not exist to promote woke ideology or brainwash our children to change their sexual identity. Disney is now the poster child. It's time for Disney to pay. It's time to bring Disney for their knees. It's time to defund Disney. Let's start by treating Disney like the feds once treated Al Capone. Disney is now our public enemy number one. They richly deserve it. Defund Disney. If we succeed in making Disney go to their knees and apologize and change their corporate policy, then there's 115 other corporations in my book, The Great Patriot Protest. We can go work on them. next, Let's make Disney public enemy number one and prove that it works. I'm Wayne. Allyn Root Show is coming to an end for today. I'll see you in two Tuesdays. I'm headed to my speech with President Donald Trump next Monday. I'm flying back home to Las Vegas on Tuesday. Love y'all, Appreciate y'all. God bless every single one of you, the Patriots of America. Root for Americacom. Wade Root at gmailcom. You know it's a fact and I'm not bragging when I say it. It's just true that info wars is seen by the globalist as the standard of human liberty, as the logo of human, populist resistance against their transhumanist, anti-human program And man. our work is really right now hitting the most important aspects of what we've ever done. So I'm asking listeners now to realize we've got great products- thousands of them- at infowarstorecom, And we are funded by listeners and viewers like you, and so now we need to support more than ever, because this fight has intensified. Don't need me to tell you that at infowarstorecom We've got 25 to 75% off across the board right now. Things have been sold out for a long time, like info wars: life fizzy, magnesium mix- that's so amazing, and our new immune support formula- that's so critical. They're all available 25 to 75% off at infowarstorecom right now. William, in California people are asleep and program controlled. I agree. How do you make the sleeper awaken, William? Hi Alex, Thanks for taking my call. Can I plug, uh, Alex, real quick? Yeah, go ahead. Hey, I'm in my sixties, uh, and I did the work of 25, 30 year olds And I worked them into the ground and you wanted to know why. And I've tested this and I've taken your B12. And let me tell you, when I don't take it, I pay a price. I really do. I take that B12 and I am electric man. I can run 10 miles. I do some pretty heavy work, uh, with a highway department and my friends will attest to the fact that, yeah, for a guy in his sixties, you know, pushing 70, I'm- and I'm not just blowing smoke here- the B12 saves my life. if you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.The Washington State Senate just passed Senate Bill 5599, allowing the state to hide children from their parents. No allegation of abuse is required, just the child's delusional desire to change the gender of their own body. The bill compels state-licensed youth shelters to act as accomplices in castrating children without their parents' knowledge and allocates over $7 million to pay for the surgical and pharmaceutical castrations. According to this new law, if a child shows up at a youth shelter in Washington State and expresses the desire to change the gender of their body, claiming that their parents are against it, then the youth shelter is legally obligated to not notify the parents of the child's location, but rather to funnel that child into the destructive and horrific world of transgenderism, paid for by the state of Washington with taxpayer dollars. And it's not limited to Washington residences. Any young, confused, runaway child can now make their way to Washington to get castrated by the government without their parents ever being notified. The agenda to destroy Christian culture and the family was further demonstrated last month when scores of UN judges published the eight March Principles for a Human Rights-Based Approach to Criminal Law proscribing conduct associated with sex, reproduction, drug use, HIV, homelessness and poverty. The document states that these principles should be of immediate relevance to legislators, judges and prosecutors at all levels. These principles include the right to abortion and transgender surgeries. They recommend the legalization of prostitution and all drug use. But the real offense is buried at the end of Principle 16, Consensual Sexual Conduct, where it states that sexual conduct involving persons below the domestically prescribed minimum age of consent to sex may be consensual, in fact, if not in law. In this context, the enforcement of criminal law should reflect the rights and capacity of persons under 18 years of age to make decisions about engaging in consensual sexual conduct and their rights to be heard in matters concerning them. And the reason for this was perhaps best summarized by Communist Marxist Vladimir Lenin when he said: give me four years to teach the children and the seed I have sown will never be uprooted. Reporting for InfoWars. this is Greg Reese. Now let's hear from one of the soldiers of this cult of death. If you back a wild animal into a corner, they're going to become a dangerous animal. So if you want to die on that hill of yours of righteousness and moral majority, then you go right ahead. I dare you to try and stop me from going into a women's bathroom. It will be the last mistake you ever make. I dare you to try and stop a transgender woman in my presence from using the bathroom. It will be the last mistake you ever make. This is a call to action and a call to arms to everybody within the United States that are scared, worried, have children that are transgender, lesbian, bi or gay. This is a call to action. You need to arm up, plain and simple. Go out, buy a gun, learn how to use it efficiently, through and through, because the time to act is now. You need to protect yourself and you need to protect your fellow transgender brothers and sisters, and they's and them's. You need to protect the rest of us in the LGB community, as I'm going to do myself, because there are lots of people like me who are not afraid to die. I love my girlfriends to death, but I would rather die for them to secure their safety, freedom and future than to live and not have anything done. This is the army of Satan. You go ahead. You protect your kids. That's right. We will. We will filth. You need to get coordinated with not only your food but also your health supplements, because it's going to be a matter of life and death. So support InfoWars store. Listen, you need to put it as a priority because you don't know, I don't know, Alex and I are telling you how late it is before midnight strikes. And again, magnesium is critical for your muscles and everything. krill oil- What I'm watching right before my eyes is a composite overview of nutritional supplements that will keep you alive, And I would urge everyone. maybe you don't take vitamins, maybe you don't take nutritional supplements, but the day will come. Vitamin C and zinc: absolutely imperative for the cold DNA force, Absolutely imperative. Mineral fusion: Absolutely. As you're drinking filter water, a lot of it will become demineralized. You have to have these products. If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance. live from the InfoWarscom studios. It's Alex Jones. It's Friday, April 21st 2023.. I'm your host, Alex Jones. I have cleaned the slate of guests today so I can cover all this news and take your calls. We always cover incredibly important news, but today it is particularly revealing. The enemy is coming out of its satanic closet, crawling out from under its pedophilic rock. All over the US, there are passing laws, or set to pass laws, where schools talk to children as young as five years old and convince them they're another sex and then deliver them to a facility and the parents are not told where the children are and the police under law say: we don't know where your child is, even though they've been kidnapped. That's the next step. they already have in place around the country where they have the files and don't tell the parents. they've convinced your child to be one of these dozens of new things. There's over 200 different designations that the government is now pushing. Meanwhile, the UN has put out a report they've been working on for two years, put out by the ICJ, With over 60 judges from around the world that say it is a right to have sex with children- in Section 16, and that it is a human right for children to consent to sex. Well, a child can't consent to sex. Then we have manuals from around the country- it's the same around the world, all written by the UN- that start convincing first-graders that they are one of these groups And you can see where it totally confuses them. Do you like boys? They ask a six-year-old boy. Well, yeah, they want to play with boys. They ask girls: do you like girls? Well, that means you're a lesbian. it actually says that. So when you go up to a playground when you were a kid or you have kids, children. they act the same all over the world. in Africa or Latin America or North America or Europe or Asia, you go out to a park or playground and the little boys all mainly get together and do their things. the little girls mainly get together. Now there's only one girl and one boy at the park, they'll play together. But if there's groups of boys and groups of girls, little boys are attracted. Like I'm attracted to a cheeseburger, I don't want to have sex with it. But see, I'm 49 years old and by the time I was 16 or 17,. I can answer that question properly about: are you attracted to a cheeseburger? If I said yes, well, you weren't sexually attracted to food. That's basically what they're doing with the children. Do you like boys? Are you attracted to them? Little boys go. yeah, I want to play with little boys, Little girls. do you like little girls? Do you like girls? Are you attracted to them? Well, the word attracted just means are you attracted to a sunset, Or am I attracted to a hunting camp in Colorado to go on horseback and hunt elk? Yes, It doesn't mean I want to have sex with the horse or sex with the men that are at the camp, But it's all word games, psychological warfare games they play, and it's all directed by the big corporations to destroy the family and annihilate civilization. So Greg Reese has put out an excellent three-and-a-half-minute report that is devastating. Everybody should share it with every parent. you know Washington castrate minors without parole consent, as UN pushes legalized pedophilia, And I'm going to go over the documents, I'm going to break it all down And then we've got even more clips of quote: trans activists saying they're going to shoot and kill anybody that doesn't give them access to children because they're persecuted. UN advisory group unveils legal framework to criminalize pedophilia. Jocelyn Elders in 1993 was the Surgeon General nominee and she told Congress and she said, yes, I believe we should masturbate six-month-old boys and girls, and that at the nurseries and then at the kindergartens that the teachers should manually elate the children. You look well, that woman's crazy. No, this is their agenda. They want a relationship with your child to politically tie them to their operation. They want to screw them up. If you caught your neighbor doing this with your son or daughter, you'd kill them. the grand jury wouldn't indict you. Get your neighbor in the shed screwing your seven-year-old son. you're gonna kill him in rage and the grand jury's gonna say that's a, that's a crime of passion. Give the man a medal. Now we know it's confirmed. the police in Tennessee have said they've seen the manifesto of the psycho woman that thought she was a man. Turns out she was a trans activist and hated guns. and the FBI is suppressing the manifesto because it calls for killing gun owners. until we turn our guns in, Showing Christian conservatives, your kids are gonna die because you won't turn your guns in. This is a army of drugged out, mind-controlled psychotics. and of course, this individual's on a bunch of psychotropic drugs and was allowed to have those guns and had leftist, anti-gun parents. They weren't against their daughter. All the rest of this, I mean this is just next level, ladies and gentlemen. So I have here in my hand the UN official document: International Commission of Jurists Advisory Panel on the Rule of Law for the UN and for signatories to the UN Charter. Now you've got to go read this for yourself. It took Rob Duke two hours to cover it yesterday. He did an excellent job when he filled in for Owen. It's on a well-deserved vacation. But you need to go read Section 16, and we're going to be going over this for you today. But it's the whole gender cult, scramble everybody's brains and then if you oppose it in any way, you go to jail, just like in Germany or Canada. You put a swastika on a trans flag, you're a veteran, no criminal record. they take you to jail, Stay months in jail. So they mean business. We're putting on screen legislation that passed saying they're going to take your children And when they identify as trans at the school and if the children say mommy doesn't like it or dad doesn't like it, they will take you to a facility and not tell you that they've kidnapped them and they will prepare them for chemical or physical mutilation. It's not a horror movie. This is not fiction. This is the establishment wanting to take over children. One of the main bellwethers or hallmarks or signs of all the different pieces of tyranny is the system taking over the youth, Is the state removing parents from the equation And they've decided to go with sexualization to confuse the children because they haven't hit puberty. And anyone that is crazy enough to raise children in a blue city or blue town or blue state needs to have their head examined. That's why I love our crew here. I like the Austin operation, But I have told my wife, and she agrees that if we're able to keep the Infowars headquarters here, we will. But I and my about to be six-year-old daughter- they were unable to mess up my other children who are almost adult or adult- We have to evacuate. I cannot raise a child in this environment and Austin is one of the worst places. I mean this is a damn dangerous cult. People ask: why do you live here? Well, my family helped found Texas and found what is Austin- Waterloo, Previous name- and I've had family here since the 1820s. And Just where I'm from. we moved to Dallas when I was a baby, but I was born in Dallas when we moved back down there when I was in high school. but it's sad, but it's just too dangerous And I definitely don't want to live in Los Angeles or San Francisco and Austin is about as bad as that now And you don't even have the incredible weather. So we just have to be honest about that. But I I'm going to go over all of this today. but this cult is coming. This is their main attack. And when you read this- the legislation that passed in Washington state and is introduced all over the country, And when you read the UN saying we're going to ask your seven-year-old if they want to have sex with men or adults, and if your seven-year-old says it, we're going to introduce it to men that are going to fuck your children. It's actually sad that they're going to rape your children. It has a bunch of vitamins and minerals and a bunch of other key things in amino acids that turbocharge everything and are good for your heart, your brain, your liver. you name it. Uh, it, it. it is the super fuel. RainForce Plus is great. RainForce Alt is great. There are two different nootropics. They go good with this, but this is the King Kong, This is the boss. TurboForce back in stock, discounted info or storecom. More power, more strength, more energy. In the early 1900s, certain companies were off-gassing highly toxic fluoride gases into the atmosphere. The surrounding communities began to get sick. Laws were enacted to compel these corporations to install scrubbers to convert these gases into fluorosilicic acid, still highly toxic but containable. Now these companies had a stockpile of this poison and there was no affordable way to dispose of it. Lucky for them, one of their major stockholders was also the secretary of the treasury, who was responsible for the public health service at the time, And by 1950, the US government began buying this toxic, untreated industrial waste product and dumping it into our drinking water. Reputable studies show that it's causing various cancers and other disease. With the Alexa Pure Pro, you can have clean drinking water and a remedy to this madness, Available now at infoorestorecom. The most banned man in America, Alex Jones. I want you all to know something: Alex Jones was right. Alex is right about far more than he's wrong. Alex has been right on for over a decade. I don't care how you slice it, dice it, flip it up or rub it down. Alex Jones was right. Think about how frustrated we are. if you've been awake for a year or two. imagine being like an Alex Jones or those guys who've been awake for like decades. Alex Jones called this years ago, years ago. Alex Jones never bought the Russia hoax- not for a second. You are one of the great thinkers of this. You are a martyr to the first amendment. The government fears Alex Jones. That's why the globalists hate me is because I'm exposing their corporate worldwide tyranny. It's time to show them what a real alpha male looks like with one of our most powerful products ever made: Alpha Power. As you age, your body can lose testosterone over time. With the incredible ingredients in this formula, we can help you beat the test of time and assist in restoring that lost energy and mood that comes with time and age. Alpha Power's incredible ingredients can help you boost your sports performance or enhance your day to day life with ease, while encouraging hormonal balance. Perfect by itself or with super male vitality in the true alpha male pack, Alpha Power can help boost performance, help maintain normal testosterone levels, support healthy cholesterol and more. Let Alpha Power help bring you to the peak of your optimal health. Don't fall short on energy in the fight against tyranny. Show the world what a true alpha male looks like today, with Alpha Power Head to infowarsstorecom today, Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones. You know I don't normally air a special report twice in one show. I don't normally air it twice, period. But this report's so important I played it in the first five and a lot of stations don't carry the first five And I want this to really sink in and I want everybody listening to go to Infowarscom and demand that video to the Gregory section. We're going to add the special report out of the live show feed today. I'll put the live show feed on screen because this is not a spectator sport. This is absolute combat, with Satan coming after our children. Washington to castrate minors without parental consent, as the UN pushes legalized pedophilia. It's all a unified agenda worldwide. Before I get into all this latest news, let me point you to this article from just two and a half years ago, or two years ago, And you talk about a rabbit hole into hell. This was already years ago. I reported this 15 years before this ever came out, because it was already known in Germany and in Canada that in one city alone, over 40 years, 30,000 children were placed with convicted child rapists as young as age two, to form a new family: boys with pedophile men, girls with pedophile women, so they can be recruited to form a new civilization. Now, if you're a new listener, I'm not joking. Here's even the New Yorker magazine. the German experiment that placed foster children with pedophiles With the approval of the government. a renowned sexologist ran a dangerous program. How could this happen? So this article is a whitewash. It wasn't one psychiatrist sexologist, It wasn't one city, Hamburg, It was all over the country. hundreds of thousands of children, starting in the 60s right into the 2000s. And then people got together and got mad and up. the victims got together and, ladies and gentlemen, when you read the confirmed reports, They put a three-year-old in with a pedophile. The pedophile starts raping him and training him. Now they're a trained sex slave. Then they would be delivered to houses and facilities and sometimes churches- Catholic churches- where dozens of men would gang rape the children. So they're trained by a pedophile from age two to three to be raped and to do what they're told. then they're taken and gang raped. It's a money operation. The CIA was involved. You think Jeffrey Epstein? what you know about him is the tip of the iceberg. It's not even one snowflake off the top. They murdered children. It's all about their selfishness, all about their power. They murdered children at Little St John Island of the Caribbean. Reports are that the boats would arrive at night. They like slaughterhouse stations down by the ocean. Then they put the dead children in meat grinders. Little Brown children kidnapped around the Caribbean, delivered to be murdered. Their favorite thing is to be raping them and slit their throat on Climax. That's what a lot of British Prime Ministers and others- There was one famous British Prime Minister- would leave the little girls in for his lunch And he would lunch either, put up plastic and then they'd slip a little girl's throat while the Prime Minister masturbated. Folks, I'm sorry to have to tell you this case. You wonder why they put poison in your shots. You wonder why they do all this. They murdered children at lunchtime for fun. They have torture sex dungeons for Prince Charles that Jimmy Savelle ran, And oh my god, I don't want to tell you the rest of it. Their particular thing, though- and I guess the children are lucky that they were dead already, but they would also stand by Savelle- and as soon as a kid died at the hospital, if they were an orphan or the parents weren't around, they'd throw them in the back of an ambulance and then they'd take them to a party where everybody had sex with a dead kid. So- and by the way that came out in the news, okay, The sex dungeon, the dead kids, and you know, sometimes when the kids hit like 10 or 11 or 12, they'd try to use them to go kidnap other kids. but a lot of the kids would rebel, and so they'd famously do stuff like tie them up in the street and just run over them with a truck in front of everybody, like in the middle of London. So that's who runs your government When you wonder why they all look so evil and they act so evil. remember what John McCain's wife famously said. In fact, find the clip guys. She said everybody knew Jeffrey Epstein was raping kids. Yeah, everybody knew. huh, You know who owns the Atlantic Monthly right- Steve Jobs' ex-wife, real nice person. Yeah, she likes to go to Little St John's quite a bit. So the ultimate monsters- real monsters- exist, but they come in human form, but they're filled with a demonic energy that is not human, that lusts after the blood of our children. So I just showed you mainstream news that the German government and you follow the trail of the CIA In an occupied country by the US military. I mean, folks, I didn't even tell you half of what was described by the victims in Germany, which was confirmed. They would rape them so hard and so long that their guts would spill out their hind end. That was also done to one of the women. famously that Hillary Clinton got the guy that raped her out of jail and made jokes about how it was funny. She thought it was funny. They raped her with a broomstick so she'd never have children again. I'm not going to describe what happened, but basically her uterus came out on the ground. These are nice people, So raping the children is the tip of the iceberg. And let me just prove this one more way, One more big way, before I show all the documents. If someone just molested your son or daughter, they can get over it. But if someone could brainwash your son or daughter to be chemically castrated so they're stunted, so they have major health problems, so they're dwarfing, so they then have their genitals cut off, isn't that far more brutal than just raping your child? And the answer is yes, And it's everywhere put out as a right and a beautiful, wonderful thing. This is the artwork that they published in 2007 in the Washington Post, called what was the exact headline? It was called Dangerous Art. Thousands of pieces of art in the home of Tony Podesta, top Democrat lobbyist, And we can't show you most of it here on air. The TV stations will take us off air, and I get it. we should not show you what else we have, But what looks like to be about four-year-olds and three-year-olds tied up in dungeons, And if you look carefully, Well, they've been raped. And the images also are done in cartoon style, so like a big fat man, and then it's the image of a baby on top of it in a bed while women all stand around and watch. So these people mean business. all right, This is a collage of different art and different things that have been out from different places. We can- actually we're going- to pull that up guys. Pull up the actual. there's clippings of it. If you type in Tony Podesta- dangerous art, click Google Images, and then that you'll see there's a scan of the. you know like they have that arts and varieties page. any big paper Like the big spread was. look at his house, Look at his art. He's giving you a tour of the house and that's what's on the walls. Okay, so now when we come back the legislation, Take your children and you think your child's dead or kidnapped. No, they've kidnapped them and they never tell you they have them. They decided to not perp walking, not put them in handcuffs, not do a mug shot, because they knew that that would help Trump, Didn't? they know this would backfire. We were waiting for the mug shot. We learned today they wouldn't have it, so we've made our own And it says political prisoner with an image of President Trump. The shirt is being printed now in Texas. It'll be shipping out to you in one week Political prisoner with Trump on the front there in a mug shot jail background. It's a fundraiser shirt. It says InfoWarscom on the back of the shirt. We also have Alex Jones for president. No, I'm not running for president. It's a really nice navy blue, high-quality shirt. red, white and blue, Alex Jones for president 2024.. It's a fun conversational piece and a limited-edition shirt. Great way to fund the operation. So get your Alex Jones for president and Trump mug shot shirts at InfoWarsStorecom or by calling toll-free 888-253-3139.. I talk a lot about the great successes InfoWars has had. I don't think anybody can deny it, and it is because of listeners and viewers supporting us. But when we talk about the crew at InfoWars- people behind the scenes, the researchers, the writers- they really have been the MVPs in this fight- And when we look at Harrison Smith and Owen Schroer and the hard work they engage in every day- five, six, seven days a week- it's really just incredible. So for myself and the whole InfoWars crew, I thank you for your past support. I only encourage you now to realize that InfoWars cannot stay on air if you do not support us. I know you spread the word. I know you pray for us. That's wonderful. Keep doing it, But most viewers and listeners never go to InfoWarsStorecom and you never buy great products that enrich and empower your life all at the same time. keep us on air. I know that less than 1% of our listeners actually go buy products at InfoWarsStorecom. If just 1% more of you took action and went to InfoWarsStorecom, our funding problems will be over. Please take action now. Hydrofluorosilicic acid is the third most deadly acid on Earth and they've got our children drinking that. This is a psychotic death cult period case closed out to get you and your family. We sell the Alexa Pure Breeze made by the MyPatriotSupply ReadyHour Group. It's been around about 15 years, became the biggest company in the last six. They went out, hired engineers, reverse engineered the fancy best water filter system out there that sells for twice the price and they made it as good in all the studies. It reduces things to non-detectable levels- thousands of chemicals, But you can go pay two or three times. There's four or five other filters out there that are just as good. We sell the very best, highest grade water filtration system for half the price of the leading competitor And the media says we're bad and a cult for telling you you should filter your water. You should also filter your shower water. That's another way you absorb this crap. But I'm done talking about that. The point is, you can get the filters at InfoWarsStorecom. They're discounted right now- finally back in stock. Ladies and gentlemen, this book, The Great Reset and the War for the World, is a historic book that documents the globalists in their own words: Planned for our future. That is a hellish future. Now you'll always- while they still allow books- I guess they're starting to ban them- be able to get an unsigned copy of The Great Reset and the War for the World at bookstores, Amazon or InfoWarsStorecom, But you will never be able to get another signed copy of the book after the signed copies we got run out, And there's about a thousand left of them right now. So get your copy of The Great Reset and the War for the World, a signed copy, at InfoWarsStorecom- And there is a markup there, because this is a fundraiser to keep us on the air. So you won't just have this historic memento and this powerful book, You'll also know that you help keep InfoWars on the air. I want to thank those of you that have gotten signed copies of the book or unsigned copies, But I want to encourage all of you who haven't yet to go to InfoWarsStorecom and get a signed copy, and buy a couple of unsigned copies and donate to the library or give them to the local school. This is an InfoWar- I'm counting on you and thank you for your support- Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones. If you are receiving this transmission, you are the Resistance Live from the Infowarscom studios. it's Alex Jones. So it isn't just about special rights. it isn't just about creating a corporate funded fad for there to be 200 genders. It's about destroying the family and setting up a system based on pedophilia. That was the German government slash CIA experiment, The German experiment that placed foster children with pedophiles. Now you're like- well, that's just the German government Across West Germany. The program ended after the merger of Germany, but it's now gone operational. It's not hidden now, it's out in the open. Oh, we're not pedophiles, we're transgender advocates. We're going to form a sexual identity relationship with your child and guide them sexually in their life. I mean, if you were married to somebody for, say, five years, you loved them, they were great, And then you have a child, and when the child's six, it's a man or woman, be the husband or the wife and you catch them telling your son or daughter that you could be another sex or telling them that they wanted to have sex with adults. that's okay. You'd call the police, You'd divorce that person, You'd get custody. But the schools are doing it and keeping it secret on record. that's all over the news. The manuals, from Texas to Colorado, New York, Illinois, everywhere, Florida. Same thing in the UK, same thing in Europe, same thing where the globalists run things. Every country they run. What do child predators do? They groom the children, They form long relationships with them before they abuse. That's what the high IQ ones do. It's the low IQ ones that grab your kid out of the back of your yard or grab them when you're trying on clothes at the mall and your kid's supposed to be sitting there and you see the videos all the time where some guy grabs my arm and says: come with me or I'm going to hurt you. The kids get scared and go. That's what this is. but now it's done through the institution, through psychiatry, through the psychologist, and it's all been beta tested At Boys Town going back decades, and decades ago they beta tested this and built an underground cult that abuses children and literally traffics in them and now makes billions off cutting their genitals off. It's a takeover program and now it's gearing up to absolutely invade every aspect of life, not just women's sports. That's just the tip of the spear of this. That's just the group. they go, oh, they're being victimized. because you don't want us to teach your children, You're causing them to commit suicide. They need access to your children, Embrace them, make them feel good about the decision they made. and then, all over the western world, they get the autistic and down syndrome children and tell them: you're beautiful, you're wonderful, we're going to have a party for you. You're really another sex. You're really another sex. Let's Play a clip from the TV show Drag Syndrome. So I had members of parliament on 15 years ago in the UK talking about how the majority of the children were either Down syndrome or autistic. They were targeting the schools for sterilization and now they have TV shows promoting it. Here's the clip. Hello, How are you? I'm good. How are you? Oh, my God. Oh, it's lovely to meet you. Oh, my God, I'm the biggest fan of you. I'm the biggest fan of you. I've been waiting to see you in person. Oh, it's lovely to see you. How are you? How are you? I'm good. I can't believe you're dressed up. I heard you're a bit depressed. What happened to you? Oh, I'm fine, I'm good now. Are you sure? Yeah, I'm sure. You guys look gorgeous. Look at you. Oh my gosh, you look amazing. So, thank you so much for coming. Thank you, Thank you, Thank you, Thank you, Thank you, Thank you, Thank you, Thank you, Thank you, Thank you, Thank you, Thank you, Thank you, Thank you, Thank you, Thank you. So that's Sam Smith, who identifies as non-binary- when he's not dancing around with women in cages- as Satan. And that's what this is. It's nothing but a popularization of sterilization. There's also a big leftist fetish about is having sex with Down syndrome people, folks, It's particularly the children. for a long time, because they wouldn't believe or couldn't be defended, A lot of them were in institutions. So that was. another thing that came out in the CIA trials here and in Germany was that the Down syndrome children were one of the favorite things of the establishment. They like to make fun of them, They like to humiliate them. They like to make it a big joke. They don't know it's a big joke, It's just. there's no level of evil at which these people won't engage in. But I said I was going to play this again Enlisted listeners. there are millions of people that tune in throughout the four hours every day. If you'll just go to Mandon video, if you'll just go to InfoWars, if you'll just get this report we're about to play, it won't get a half million views. it'll get 5 million views, which means we'll reach more people, which means we'll expose this takeover. So please go to InfoWarscom, the live show feed, and get this report that Greg Reese has put out. We'll again put on screen the name of the report, But it's absolutely critical to get this report. Washington State legalizes kidnapping and sterilizing children without parole consent. as UN pushes, legalized pedophilia. And then we come back. I'm going to get directly into the actual UN report. that's even worse and will legalize pedophilia worldwide. here it is: The Washington State Senate just passed Senate Bill 5599, allowing the state to hide children from their parents. No allegation of abuse is required, Just the child's delusional desire to change the gender of their own body. The bill compels state licensed youth shelters to act as accomplices in castrating children without their parents' knowledge and allocates over $7 million to pay for the surgical and pharmaceutical castrations. According to this new law, if a child shows up at a youth shelter in Washington State and expresses the desire to change the gender of their body, claiming that their parents are against it, then the youth shelter is legally obligated to not notify the parents of the child's location, But rather to funnel that child into the destructive and horrific world of transgenderism, paid for by the state of Washington with taxpayer dollars, And it's not limited to Washington residences. Any young, confused, runaway child can now make their way to Washington to get castrated by the government without their parents ever being notified. The agenda to destroy Christian culture and the family was further demonstrated last month when scores of UN judges published the 8 March Principles for a Human Rights-Based Approach to Criminal Law proscribing conduct associated with sex, reproduction, drug use, HIV, homelessness and poverty. The document states that these principles should be of immediate relevance to legislators, judges and prosecutors at all levels. These principles include the right to abortion and transgender surgeries. They recommend the legalization of prostitution and all drug use. But the real offense is buried at the end of Principle 16, Consensual Sexual Conduct, where it states that sexual conduct involving persons below the domestically prescribed minimum age of consent to sex may be consensual. in fact, if not in law. In this context, the enforcement of criminal law should reflect the rights and capacity of persons under 18 years of age to make decisions about engaging in consensual sexual conduct and their rights to be heard in matters concerning them. And the reason for this was perhaps best summarized by communist Marxist Vladimir Lenin when he said: give me four years to teach the children and the seed I have sown will never be uprooted. Reporting for InfoWars. this is Greg Reese. Okay, so the report is on InfoWarscom. You can't really share that link anywhere, So you go to MadMaxWorldtv. It's on the front page of the site that MadMaxWorldtv link is able to be shared on Twitter, Facebook or wherever else, or re-upload it, put it out however you want. just warn the world. they're coming at the children. This is a major operation. it's happening almost everywhere. God is going to destroy us if we allow this to continue and all the people going along with it. well, I would not want to be you. You need to get coordinated with not only your food but also your health supplements, because it's going to be a matter of life and death. So support InfoWars store. Listen, you need to put it as a priority because you don't know. I don't know. They're telling you how late it is before midnight strikes. And again, magnesium is critical for your muscles and everything. Krill oil. What I'm watching right before my eyes is a composite overview of nutritional supplements that will keep you alive, And I would urge everyone. maybe you don't take vitamins, maybe you don't take nutritional supplements, but the day will come. Vitamin C and zinc: absolutely imperative for the cold DNA force- Absolutely imperative. Mineral fusion: Absolutely. As you're drinking filtered water, a lot of it will become demineralized. You have to have these products. It's time to show them what a real alpha male looks like with one of our most powerful products ever made: Alpha Power. As you age, your body can lose testosterone over time. With the incredible ingredients in this formula, we can help you beat the test of time and assist in restoring that lost energy and gluten that comes with time and age. Alpha Power's incredible ingredients can help you boost your sports performance or enhance your day-to-day life with ease, while encouraging hormonal balance. Perfect by itself or with super male vitality in the true alpha male path, Alpha Power can help boost performance, help maintain normal testosterone levels, support healthy cholesterol and more. Let Alpha Power help bring you to the peak of your optimal health. Don't fall short on energy in the fight against tyranny. Show the world what a true alpha male looks like today with Alpha Power. Head to infowarsstorecom today. I want to say brain force is great. I want to say turbo force is amazing. It is. But if you took it with fish oil, it's like the fish oil, is it? The fish oil's better than it, And that's an example of what I'm talking about. Fish oil is liquid energy: Brain, body, heart, the cleanest, the best out there. Krill oil is the best And it'll give you the damn burps. And I'm just sorry You want something like this. You don't get stuff for free. The krill is hallucinogenic. It's so good in my view. I'm not making a medical statement here, but let me tell you something. And I eat five capulets of krill oil before I go to bed. I'm seeing Santa Claus that night. So your brain is made basically out of what fish oil is. So we don't make a big profit off of it. But you notice I just obsess because whatever the best is we've got, I just can't lie to you. I just can't do it. Hydrofluorosilic acid is the third most deadly acid on earth And they've got our children drinking that. This is a psychotic death cult Period Case closed Out to get you and your family. We sell the Alexa Pure Breeze made by the MyPatriotSupply Ready Hour Group. It's been around about 15 years. It became the biggest company. in the last six They went out, hired engineers, reverse engineered the fancy best water filter system out there that sells for twice the price And they made it as good in all the studies. It reduces things to non-detectable levels, thousands of chemicals, But you can go pay two or three times. There's four or five other filters out there that are just as good. We sell the very best, highest grade water filtration system for half the price of a leading competitor And the media says we're bad and a cult for telling you you should filter your water. You should also filter your shower water. That's another way you absorb this crap. But I'm done talking about that. The point is you can get the filters at Infowarstorecom. They're discounted right now. Finally back in stock, Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. It's Alex Jones. There are all these popular pop and hip-hop artists that are suddenly announcing they're LGBTQPXYZ and they're literally targeting children. They have reality TV shows where they go out and target both disabled children and non-disabled children, dress them up like clowns and induct them into the hellish world of the sex trade and more. Here is LGBTQ performer Sam Smith again, who likes to do his little satanic ceremonies on TV, meeting drag queens with Down syndrome. Let's play the video. Hello, How are you? I'm good. How are you? Oh my God, Oh, it's lovely to meet you. Oh my God, That's the biggest fan of his. I know I'm the biggest fan of you. I'm the biggest fan of you. Oh, it's lovely to see you. Oh, happy to see you as we induct you to be sterilized. Oh, look, you're famous, This guy. of course, he's just paid to do this. Oh, I'm fine, I'm good. now, Are you sure? Yeah, I'm sold. Okay, You guys look gorgeous. Look how disingenuous this all is. Oh my God, you look amazing. You're gorgeous, You look amazing. You look like a clown. Oh my God, Oh my God, Oh my God, Oh my God, Oh my God, Oh my God, Oh my God, Oh my God, Oh my God, Oh my God, Oh my God, Oh my God, Oh my God, Oh my God, Oh my God, Oh my God, Oh my God, Oh my God, Oh my God. Where is my champagne? Where's my diamond ring? Where's my gin and tonic? Where's my machinery? Yeah, you don't need any special Olympics for these folks or build group homes for them so they can take care of themselves and have decency. No, let's parade them around like shrunken heads tied around some New Guinea native's waist. the people he's taken out, trophies of death and destruction. Okay, so here's the headline from Infowarscom: UN advisory group unveils legal framework to decriminalize pedophilia, with all the links and subparagraphs for you. Breitbart also has a UN issues report pushing for criminalization and decriminalization of pedophilia. But you know how we do it here. We don't just read you a headline and, like the establishment does, look at the evidence we actually show you. So this is being adopted by the UN, two years plus in the making, 60 plus judges around the world, the eight March principles for a human rights based approach to criminal law prescribing conduct associated with sex, reproduction, drug use, HIV, homelessness and poverty Which they're inducting people into. and the report just came out a few days ago, But it's listed as March though. we are now in April. All right, let's go ahead and go through this. and again, it's all how they're going to brainwash the kids and take them away from the parents. It's everything you've already seen. It's how you don't have to disclose, you've got HIV and you can give it to people, just like the California law they passed. Everything you see happening in our states is being run by these people And it just continues on. We have the table of contents where it explains that there's no harm done to a child if they're consenting in the sex. I'm actually going to show you the subsection. So this is the bioethics, This is the program, This is the plan, the process, the structure, the preamble to what they are going to do. The basic principles of criminal law. We've got principle one, principle two, principle three, principle four, Principle of legality, harm principle, individual criminal liability, voluntary act requirement, And this is all how the lawyers protect themselves. they think You opt in. they tell you the vaccines are safe and everything's wonderful and they've all been tested. None of that's true. In the fine print it says not tested. We have no liability if you get sick or die. But if you opt in, well, they can do it. Now they're saying your five-year-old can. They're saying they can opt in. Here is Section 8.. And we can also put up the Gregg Reese report. It's got nice screenshots of this in HD for people. Let's look at Section 8.. Let's look at Principle 16.. This is on page 22.. Consensual sexual conduct. Consensual sexual conduct, irrespective of the type of sexual activity, the sex, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression of people involved in their marital status, may not be criminalized in any circumstance. Consensual same-sex, as well as consensual different sex sexual relations or consensual sexual relations, whether between trans, non-binary or other gender-diverse people- And now they say that children can identify as adults- Or outside marriage, whether premarital or extramarital, may therefore never be criminalized. That's also about breaking the family up. With respect to the enforcement of criminal law, any prescribed minimum age of consent to sex must be applied to a non-discriminatory manner. Enforcement may not be linked to the sex, gender of participants or the age of consent to marriage or age of consent to sex. Moreover, sexual conduct involving persons below the domestically prescribed minimum, whatever your country is, they override it. Age of consent to sex may be consensual, in fact, if not in law. In this context, the enforcement of criminal law should reflect the rights and capacity of persons under the age of 18 or age to make decisions about engaging in consensual sexual conduct and their right to be heard in matters concerning them pursuant to where evolving capabilities and progressive autonomy, persons under 18 years of age should participate in decisions affecting them with due regard to their age, maturity and best interest, as with specific attention to non-discriminating guarantees, And it goes on. So here's how it works. We've shown all these articles the past few weeks. Everybody knows about it, but I've got some examples right here where They tell your eight-year-old: you're really a girl, you're really a boy, Don't tell your parents. and then, if the parents find out, we'll protect you. And then they have bills passed in places like Washington State to take you, put you in the facility and never tell your parents where you went and not tell your parents that they took you. You don't know where your child is. It's on the news. Where's Jenny? Well, your name's already changed to Bobby. I mean they're jumping over the line a million miles. I mean they're not crossing the line. They are just absolutely no parental rights. Your children belong to us. We'll give them abortions, We'll sterilize them, We'll cut their genitals off, We'll take them away from you. We won't tell you where they are. I mean, this is what every authoritarian state does. They just usually turn their kids into spies and workers and soldiers. But the globalists are like, oh, we're going to sterilize them and turn them into sex workers. That's what they have in these career days in middle school. all over the country Again, from Texas to Colorado to Michigan, it's all over where they come in and have prostitutes and people tell the kids what a great job it is. I mean, this is just next level, ladies and gentlemen. California bill proposes fines, jail time for those who harass teachers over gendered ideology and teaching. That means criticizing them at the school boards. Remember sending the FBI to the school boards two years ago? So this is very, very, very serious. Washington bill to allow medical transgender interventions on minors without parental consent. But that's not even the meat of it, It's the taking the child away. So that's just some of the information. Then we've got this happening. Illegal aliens who are LGBTQ, including children, may not be detained under Democrats' new bill. This is actually a human smuggling bill. I'm going to get to that next hour, But they are hitting on all cylinders. It's their big takeover And this just in House passes trans athlete ban. We'll have more on that coming up. All right, we're going to go to break. We're going to start the next hour. I've got a bunch of other news about the election and Elon Musk and wars and a giant gold ice, One of the biggest in world history. And then Bill Gates is putting a secret ingredient in much of your food, But that's just not coming to light. That's obviously highly toxic And, of course, linked infertility of course. Oh yeah, Half the produce The country's been sprayed with it. You don't want to know about that. That's all coming up next hour. But please remember we have high quality supplements that are tested The highest standards, that are sure and clean and amazing, And they have great results and five star reviews. And then forward to our com, And that's how we're able to fund ourselves, with the population backing us and commissioning us to do this operation. So please go to infocom Again. if just 1% more of the listeners and viewers go by productcom, we won't just be stabilized, We'll be able to radically expand in the face of this tyranny. This couldn't be a more important time in human development And I'm very blessed to be here, Very blessed. You've supported us. I humbly ask you to get great products to enrich your life at infocom: Turbo force, incredible, 10-hour clean energy and pre-workout and so many other things, So good for you: All these amino acids and more. It is the incredible formula. It's 25% off, back in stock, Infowarsstorecom or 888-253-3139.. And we also have the ultimate krill oil: 40% off. Real Red Pill Plus selling out an amazing 40% off. The best CBD oil out there at about half the price others sell it for. So good for your joints and bones, neurological system. A lot of great products at infowarsstorecom. And we've got t-shirts back in Alex Jones for president and the Trump mugshot t-shirts. Thank you all for your support. Hour number two straight ahead. Please stay with us. TurboForce is back, sold out for eight months, and it's TurboForce Plus. we made it even stronger, The strongest long-term energy you're going to find anywhere. TurboForce is back in stock at infowarestorecom or 888-253-3139.. It's not just wide spectrum natural herbs. that time release over 10 hours should be called 10-hour energy. It has a bunch of vitamins and minerals and a bunch of other key things and amino acids that turbocharge everything and are good for your heart, your brain, your liver. you name it. It is the super fuel. RainForce Plus is great. RainForce Ultra is great. they're two different nootropics. they go good with this, but this is the king kong, this is the boss. TurboForce back in stock discounted infowarestorecom- more power, more strength, more energy. Right now I'm not talking to the viewers and listeners that have gone to infowarestorecom and gotten the great products that enrich your life, that empower your immune system in your body and keep us on air. I am, humbly, hand in hand, talking to the viewers and listeners that have tuned in- many of you for years and never gone to infowarestorecom. We know the vast, vast, vast, vast majority of you never actually go to infowarestorecom and never experienced these great products and never found the operation. Sure, you share a link, you share an article, you tell folks about the show. that's great and I thank you, but we need funds to operate. plus, we've got really great products that do amazing things for people, like our CBD oil and our Fizzy Magnesium and our SleepAid and our Nitric Oxide and our Real Red Pill Plus. all of these are really great products that keep us on air. plus, you're missing out on having these products. So get off the bench, get in the game, step to the plate and go to infowarestorecom right now and get these great InfoWars products at infowarestorecom. If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance. All right, I've got a lot of important news. we're going to be hitting next segment. We'll open the phones up as well and take calls for several hours here on this live Friday transmission. But I want to play a few excerpts of Robert Kennedy Jr's speech- very, very powerful. Here's a couple of those segments. My father, when he came back one time from the Delta, he said we were all at the dinner table when he came in and he said I was in a tar paper shack that was smaller than this dining room and there were two families living there And the children get one meal a day. And when you get older, I want you to help those people. And when we would go into southeast Washington or Appalachia, he would say to us: these are your people, These are Kennedy people. He said the other people, the big shots, the corporations, the millionaires, don't need the Kennedys. They have lobbyists, They have PR firms, They have lawyers. And he said these are your people and these are the people you need to spend your life helping. And when I'm president, I'm going to be president for those people. You're going to really take back this country. You give me a piece of ground and a sword and I am going to take back this country with your help, the help of all the homeless Republicans and Democrats and independents who are Americans first, America, first America first, Out of the Kennedy. That's good, That's how far we've come, We're actually winning. But we're going to be going crazy throwing all these fits. My uncle came into office two months later. He was fighting his intelligence apparatus, his military, because they wanted to invade. They wanted to do the pay of pigs. He was totally against it and he let them roll over him. And in the middle of the pay of pigs he realized they were lying to him and he realized the function of the intelligence agencies had become to provide the military industrial complex with a constant pipeline of war. And he came out during the middle of the night, during the pay of pigs catastrophe, and he said: I want to take the CIA. Alan Dulles had lied to him, Charles Comeau, Richard Bissell, Louis Lemitzer, Curtis LeMay had all lied to him through their teeth. and he said: I want to take the CIA and shatter it into a thousand pieces and scatter it to the winds. And that got him killed. Boy, I tell you, the whole speech is powerful. Kennedy's for real. I mean, I heard all his policies. He's a real deal. George Bush, George W Bush has the same problem. George W Bush says the worst mistake he made as president was listening to CIA Director George Tenet tell him it was a slam dunk that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction and so the neocons and CIA got to go into Iraq and throw out and do regime change. and and we got not. now we've spent eight trillion dollars and what do we get for that eight trillion? Nothing, worse than nothing. Iraq is now much worse off than it was when we went in there. We killed more Iraqis than Saddam Hussein ever did. We may have killed a million Iraqis and nobody knows the number It is. it is an incoherent country today with where Shia death squads are fighting with Sunni death squads in the street. The government is corrupt. The police are corrupt. We created ISIS. We drove 2 million refugees up into Europe. They destabilized democracy for a generation in Europe. They caused Brexit. This is the cost of the Iraq war: Eight trillion dollars there, 16 trillion for the lockdowns, 24 trillion. nothing to show except a devastated middle class in the United States of America and we need to put an end to that Because it's a plan. We are under attack. It is a plan. They're doing it on purpose. They're doing it on purpose. Our entire strategy in the Mideast has utterly collapsed and our economy is going to follow if we don't do something fast. And I'm going to bring the troops home and I'm going to start. I'm going to close the bases and I'm going to start investing in the United States, middle class, in our country, and I'm going to make us an exemplary democracy again. All right, We'll be right back, ladies and gentlemen, in 60 seconds. so everybody know, tune in. That's how we win. You are the power, You are the resistance, You are victory. They decided to not perp walking, not put him in handcuffs, not do a mugshot, because they knew that that would help Trump, Didn't? they know this would backfire? We were waiting for the mugshot. We learned today they wouldn't have it. So we've made our own and it says political prisoner with an image of President Trump. The shirt is being printed now in Texas. It'll be shipping out to you in one week: Political prisoner with Trump on the front there in a mugshot jail background. It's a fundraiser shirt. It says InfoWarscom on the back of the shirt. We also have Alex Jones for president. No, I'm not running for president. It's a really nice navy blue, high quality shirt- Red, white and blue. Alex Jones for president, Twenty twenty four. It's a fun conversational piece and a limited edition shirt. Great way to fund the operation. So get your Alex Jones for president and Trump mugshot shirts at InfoWarsStorecom or by calling toll free: triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine. Big Brother mainstream media government cover ups. You want to stop tyranny? Well, so does. he Live from the InfoWarscom studios. it's Alex Jones. All right, I'm going to finish up with the pedophile revolution. It's even worse than just a pedophile revolution, a transhumanist, satanic takeover And the news we covered last time. a recap and get to the rest of the news. Then I'm going to hit a bunch of the other news And it is extremely important, Absolutely insane. They've introduced legislation bipartisanly that puts us on an Internet ID for the Central Bank digital currency. So we're going to get into that. Also, video: CDC director admits for the first time that vaccinated people could spread COVID. We always knew that. It makes you spread. it worse, It makes the virus mutate. Also, Joe Biden is set to announce next week his reelection campaign. He's really going to try to do it, Do it again. I mean, he won't. he won't even be able to talk by then. But hey, you see the Fetterman example. He can't talk. That's what they want, Total puppets. We have more universities protesting saying they don't want armed police on campus- Total idiots. That turns the campus obviously into a giant shooting gallery where these mass killers will go. But that just shows the abject murder of logic, common sense by the left. Also, House Republicans pass bill to ban transgender athletes and women and girls sports. We're getting more to that in a moment. And House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries says men and women's sports is an issue that doesn't exist. And he goes on to say it doesn't exist because there are no men in women's sports, Because when you identify as a woman, you are a woman. And now the University of Texas, of all places, two days ago announced that, along with a lot of other universities, that they're teaching in the biology classes- you're paying for this- a degree that gender has nothing to do with chromosomes and is not biological. That's like saying electricity is not electricity or sunlight is not sunlight, or the color black is not black or white is not white. I guess you could technically say black is not a color, It is the absorption of all color. White is a reflection of it. But it's like saying this green pen in my hand is not a green pen. Well, anybody can look at that and see that's a green pen. The University of Texas says that is not a green pen. ladies and gentlemen, It's just mind-blowing. Also, massive 12 million gold haul stolen in audacious Ocean's 11 style heist. Officials in Tennessee said release of trans shooters manifestos being stalled by the FBI. They say they've seen it And the individual was anti gun. anti gun, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to make people pay for the Second Amendment and was mad about persecution that's made up of the trans cult. So we'll continue with all of that news here today. But before I get back into the trans cult and the bombshells we covered last hour, I want to give the toll free number out specifically on a wide range of topics. but I would ask that you at least chime in on those topics then you can bring up whatever you'd like and that you'd be a first time caller And the three people that were on the whole we went to break yesterday. If you're there, we're going to call you back and you'll be at the front of the line. I've been endeavoring to get to as many calls as possible and to cover as many news items as possible, because I tend to get stuck on one or two items sometimes for a whole hour, But normally those are big topics that tied everything else at the same time. I would like to discuss the UN officially saying, in a policy report written by 60 judges around the world: they're going to legalize pedophilia and say that it is consensual for children to have sex with adults and use drugs. Talk about dehumanization. talk about death. We're also going to be drilling back into house passes- trans athlete ban just today. But since I played one of these clips yesterday, let's play the clip we played yesterday And then let's play some of the new clips of different- quote trans internet personalities whose MO is violence and calling for violence. And you've seen how they behave at pro-life events and other things: attacking people, Calling for violence if anybody doesn't let them in the bathroom. or quote if we try to protect our kids. So let's, let's. let's play yesterday's clips and the new clips back to back. If you back a wild animal into a corner, they're going to become a dangerous animal. So if you want to die on that Hill of yours of righteousness and moral majority, then you go right ahead. I dare you to try and stop me from going into a women's bathroom. It will be the last mistake you ever make. I dare you to try and stop a transgender woman in my presence from using the bathroom. It will be the last mistake you ever make. This is a call to action and a call to arms to everybody within the United States that are scared, worried, have children that are transgender, lesbian, bi or gay. This is a call to action. You need to arm up, plain and simple. go out, buy a gun, learn how to use it efficiently, through and through, because the time to act is now. You need to protect yourself and you need to protect your fellow transgender brothers and sisters, and they's and them's. You need to protect the rest of us in the LGB community, as I'm going to do myself, because there are lots of people like me who are not afraid to die. I love my girlfriends to death, but I would rather die for them to secure their safety, freedom and future than to live and not have anything done. So you go ahead, You protect your kids, and I'm one of them. I've already worked enough in this lifetime. You see, I'm a homemaker. I got nothing but time and opportunity. I don't fear pain, I don't fear death, I don't fear jail and I sure as don't fear prison. So let's make this happen, Chad, Come out of hiding. Show us who you really are, Because I can guarantee you you'll only get one chance. Better, make it count. Have the day you deserve. coward- Oh, I forgot to say TikTok. do your thing. Let's find out who this little coward is, this little clown shoe. Let's find out who they are. Go ahead, buckaroo, because they won't do a damn thing. When I tell them I'm a trans woman, they'll say okay, and they'll leave me alone. You want to know why? Because it's legal in my state, as a trans woman, to use the bathroom I identify with. Now come at me with another comment: honey, bunches of oats. I have a dilemma. as a trans woman, Which bathroom do I use? I don't want to make anybody mad, especially the haters. Do I use the men's restroom or the women's? The men's or the women's? Oh, no, not. I'm a trans woman and I will use a woman's restroom. And, honestly, there's nothing any of y'all can do. And those that like to comment: oh, I'm going to call the authorities, go ahead. It's legal in my state. There's nothing you can do. So they're the front lines of the cult: Brainwashed, crazy, obsessed with bathrooms, obsessed with children. And now in both Tennessee And in Kentucky it's coming out that they're suppressing the manifestos. but reportedly in both cases they were leftists who were anti-gun. and in the case of the Tennessee shooter, the woman who thought she was a man was mad about trans issues. You saw the media say, well, these are Christians and you better be nice to trans people or they'll kill you. You saw all these different Democrats come out and agree with that, including the spokesperson for the governor of Arizona. Officials in Tennessee say release of trans national shooter's manifesto was being stalled by the FBI but that they have talked to those that have seen it and it's because they were leftist. That's the same thing. Medicated Louisville bank shooter's manifesto reveals anti-gun motivation. It just goes on and on and on. and now the UN says they're legalizing pedophilia and Washington State says they, well, they passed a law to take your child, not tell you where they went, and sterilize them in facilities, in cults, with a bunch of other captured kids. 877-789-2539.. 877-789-2539. We're taking your calls for first-time callers. 877-789-2539.. You can talk about whatever issue you want, but I'd also like to talk about some of the issues I'm raising. 877-789-Alex, We'll be right back. Turbo Force is back, sold out for eight months, and it's Turbo Force Plus. We made it even stronger- The strongest long-term energy you're going to find anywhere. Turbo Force is back in stock at Infowarsstorecom or 888-253-3139.. It's not just wide-spectrum natural herbs that time-release over 10 hours- It should be called 10-hour energy. It has a bunch of vitamins and minerals and a bunch of other key things and amino acids that turbocharge everything and are good for your heart, your brain, your liver, you name it. It is the super fuel. Rain Force Plus is great. Rain Force Ultra is great. There are two different nootropics. They go good with this. But this is the King Kong, This is the boss. Turbo Force back in stock, discounted, Infowarsstorecom. More power, more strength, more energy. I talk a lot about the great successes Infowars has had. I don't think anybody can deny it, And it is because of listeners and viewers supporting us. When we talk about the crew at Infowars, people behind the scenes, the researchers, the writers- they really have been the MVPs in this fight. And when you look at Harrison Smith and Owen Schroer and the hard work they engage in every day- five, six, seven days a week. it is really just incredible. So for myself and the whole Infowars crew, I thank you for your past support. I want to encourage you now to realize that Infowars cannot stay on air if you do not support us. I know you spread the word, I know you pray for us And that is wonderful. Keep doing it. But most viewers and listeners never go to Infowarsstorecom And you never buy great products that enrich and empower your life at the same time keeping us on air. I know that less than 1% of our listeners actually go buy products at Infowarsstorecom. If just 1% more of you took action and went to Infowarsstorecom, our funding problems will be over. Please take action now. In the early 1900s, certain companies were off-gassing highly toxic fluoride gases into the atmosphere. The surrounding communities began to get sick. Laws were enacted to compel these corporations to install scrubbers to convert these gases into fluorosilicic acid, Still highly toxic but containable. Now these companies had a stockpile of this poison And there was no affordable way to dispose of it. Lucky for them, one of their major stockholders was also the Secretary of the Treasury, who was responsible for the public health service at the time, And by 1950, the US government began buying this toxic, untreated industrial waste product and dumping it into our drinking water. Reputable studies show that it's causing various cancers and other disease. With the Alexa Pure Pro, you can have clean drinking water And a remedy to this madness, Available now at Infowarsstorecom. Humanity is in a fight for its very life And Infowars, for decades, has been at the very forefront of the fight for a pro-human future. We can't stay on air without your help, And I want to thank you all for your past support. And I want to encourage those of you that have never bought products at Infowarsstorecom to go there and experience how amazing these products really are: Ultimate Bone Broth- finally sold out for over two years, back in stock. Real Red Pill Plus- simply amazing. Nitric boosts what it does for your heart, Cardiovascular critical. All these products, like Ultimate Krill Oil, Ultimate Fish Oil, Supermelt Vitality- they're all available and in stock, ready to ship to you right now at Infowarsstorecom. And the final 1,200 signed copies of my book The Great Reset and the War for the World- and I'm not going to sign any more after that- are exclusively available at Infowarsstorecom as well. In the last month I got a little busy so I didn't sign the books. We didn't have them for sale, But now I signed the last books. You can get them right now. Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. It's Alex Jones. We're going to go on your phone calls here in just a few minutes, but I wanted to finish up with a whole transgender news. hit some other news, then go to your calls. Illegal aliens who are LGBTQ may not be detained. under Democrats' new law- That is April 21st article, Fox News. When you actually read the law, the bill goes further- hasn't passed yet- by seeking to exempt several groups of illegal aliens from any detention at all. It creates a special rule for vulnerable persons and primary caregivers, says these aliens may not be detained unless DHS can determine that it is unreasonable or not practical to place the alien in the community-based provision program. It goes on to say if they're LGBTQ, whatever that's the case, And critics that looked at the bill say this will allow human smuggling, because they'll just say: oh, we can't let this 10-year-old you know be detained, even though we know who they are. Wink, wink, you identify as LGBTQ and then you're just released off into the inter-world. This is so incredibly dangerous, but the system knows exactly what they're doing. I'm not going to air the whole hour-and-a-half report. It's on BandVideo. Rob Dude put it together. It is horror stories, trans kids at highest risk of suicide and regret from body mutilation, and Democrats are trying to pass laws saying it's hate speech if they talk about it or if they try to transition back- which you can't do from a lot of the chemicals or surgery, obviously, But just think about that. They want the victims silenced. They don't want you to know they're targeting children. They keep it secret. I mean, this is what predators do. So let's go ahead and play the intro of this report. First few minutes is a powerful boil-down, but if you want to see the whole thing, it's on BandVideo and InfoWarscom. If you want to share it- you can't really share those URLs on most platforms easily. You can simply find the link and share it from the link that's generated from MadMaxWorldtv, But it's an hour and 37 minutes long. only play a few minutes of it. There are stories, trans kids at highest risk of suicide and regret from body mutilation, and they use the statistics of them having the highest levels of suicide murder. you name it mental illness and say, oh, it's your fault for not embracing it, as if you did this to them. Here's part of that report. It is the latest fight over transgender rights: Two rallies, two opposing messages in downtown Nashville tonight. I will do everything that I can do at the federal level to make certain that we protect our children. State Representative Elizabeth Guzman's proposal would make it a crime for parents who do not affirm their children's gender identity. Protesters in Texas rallying against alleged child abuse investigations targeting parents of transgender youth, By the way, hit pause. Hit pause and back it up 15 seconds. Make it a crime to not affirm. So they convince your seven-year-old at the public school or private school or wherever, or TV does that they're another sex. You say, no, you're a boy, you're a girl. And, oh my God, that's a crime, a thought crime, And you lose your child. What did they just do in Washington state? And now that's another state. I mean, are you getting the picture here? They're coming for our children, They're already here. Continue. State Representative Elizabeth Guzman's proposal would make it a crime for parents who do not affirm their children's gender identity. Protesters in Texas rallying against alleged child abuse. Hit pause again. Just let that sink in. I've seen that bill too. These bills are passing A crime. if you don't agree, Where's your free speech. See, Oh, it was just ban the N-word at first. Now, oh, you can't say that you don't want your child sterilized. You can't just not agree, You must affirm: What a cult, What a group of authoritarians. They mean business, Oh. and then states that investigate parents that are trying to get their kids sterilized at age six or seven, which you should be investigating those people? Oh, that's bad, That's abusive of transgender youth. Radical gender theory has progressed rapidly from the assertion that sex and gender are two different things, one biological and one socialized, to some asserting that biological sex is either not real or on a spectrum. We introduced some people who are called detransitioners. These are people who are choosing to reverse the process. Hormones do have implications. They have long-term effects, and they have. And of course surgery has lifelong effects. They're not reversible. Medical experts, including the American Academy of Pediatrics, say gender-affirming care is safe and best practice for transgender patients advise: Back it up 10 again. And these same groups told us it's safe for pregnant women to take vaccines and experimental shots, even though until five years ago they would all tell you don't do it, it's deadly, it's dangerous, They're lying, they're bought off and it's a wall of fraud from the top selling this death, Continue not to encourage children to change their names and pronouns. To everyone celebrating Transgender Day of Visibility, I want you to know that your president sees you And it's okay to ask questions about something that's very new and involves children. The answer can always be that anyone from a marginalized community is automatically right. trump card, mic drop. end of discussion Because we're literally experimenting on children. So the puzzle is why, out of nowhere, in the last decade, have we seen a sudden and sharp spike of teenage girls who have no childhood history of gender dysphoria suddenly deciding they're trans, often with their girlfriends. Transgender Day of Visibility, All right. And again, this is a documentary that Rob knew didn't make. He posted it to Man Up Video. He did another boil down. I was confusing that with this one, But this is powerful. You should share the film, Send it to everyone you know that has children, everyone that's thinking about having children, everyone that doesn't have children. It's all our jobs to work together to protect ourselves from this cult, and we will. But this is their main battle plan. I'm on record. Twenty years ago, Signals was coming, Dr Michael Kaufman- God rest his amazing soul. who's in Endgame? We did Endgame 1.5, where he's laying out all these government documents from the 1960s in the UK and the US with this plan And this is how they bring down society. We're going to go to break in a few minutes. come back and take a ton of your calls, interspersed with other news, But let me just show you this. This is used in curriculum all over the United States. This particular curriculum was out of what Oregon Got, another one being used here in Florida And you've got to go read what they do for the children. This is done in the middle school. middle school Flash 2 edition, Identity terms. And they just say: What are you Female, queer, cisgender, gay, transgender, trans gender? You don't learn reading, writing or arithmetic. You learn this Gender fluid- bisexual, straight, male, lesbian. And then it goes into here talking about: Do you like boys? If you feel attracted, meaning friendly, towards them, it means you want to have sex with them. And again, I'm attracted to a glass of Jack Daniels. It doesn't mean I want to have sex with it. And I'm attracted to hang out with my buddies and play pool. It doesn't mean I'm going to have sex with them. And they confuse them. Can you change your sexual orientation or gender? They try to get them to change it. And you've got to go read this developing pride scenario. I mean, this is just chilling. It's all up on Infowarscom. But I'm going to stop there. We've got a lot of other news to hit in your phone calls And come back and go to your calls straight away And then there's going to be so much more. today They decided to not perp walking, not put him in handcuffs, not do a mugshot, because they knew that that would help Trump. Wouldn't they know this would backfire. We were waiting for the mugshot. We learned today they wouldn't have it. So we've made our own And it says political prisoner with an image of President Trump. The shirt is being printed now in Texas. It will be shipping out to you in one week. Political prisoner with Trump on the front there in a mugshot jail background. It's a fundraiser shirt. It says Infowarscom on the back of the shirt. We also have Alex Jones for president. I'm not running for president. It's a really nice navy blue, high-quality shirt. Red, white and blue- Alex Jones for president 2024.. It's a fun, conversational piece and a limited edition shirt. Great way to fund the operation. So get your Alex Jones for president and Trump mugshot shirts at Infowarsstorecom or by calling toll-free 888-253-3139.. You need to get coordinated with not only your food but also your health supplements, because it's going to be a matter of life and death. So support Infowarsstore. Listen, you need to put it as a priority, because you don't know, I don't know, Alex and I are telling you how late it is, before midnight strikes. And again, magnesium is critical for your muscles and everything. Krill oil- What I'm watching right before my eyes is a composite overview of nutritional supplements that will keep you alive, And I would urge everyone. Maybe you don't take vitamins, Maybe you don't take nutritional supplements, But the day will come. Vitamin C and zinc: absolutely imperative for the cold DNA force- absolutely imperative. Mineral fusion: absolutely. As you're drinking filtered water, a lot of it will become demineralized. You have to have these products. Ladies and gentlemen, this book, The Great Reset and The War for the World, is a historic book that documents the global, in their own words, plan for our future. That is a hellish future. Now you'll always- while they still allow books- I guess they're starting to ban them- be able to get an unsigned copy of The Great Reset and The War for the World at bookstores, Amazon or Infowarsstorecom, But you will never be able to get another signed copy of the book after the signed copies we got run out And there's about 1,000 left of them right now. So get your copy of The Great Reset and The War for the World- a signed copy- at Infowarsstorecom- And there is a markup there, because this is a fundraiser to keep us on the air- So you won't just have this historic memento and this powerful book, You'll also know that you helped keep Infowars on the air. I'm going to thank those of you that have gotten signed copies of the book or unsigned copies, But I want to encourage all of you who haven't yet to go to Infowarsstorecom and get a signed copy and buy a couple of unsigned copies and donate them to the library or give them to the local school. This is an Infowar. I'm counting on you and thank you for your support. I want to thank all of you over the years who have supported Infowars financially and with word of mouth and prayer. All the success that we've had together against the globalists and the fact that we're not caught flat-footed during their major takeover is because of you. Humanity has a real fighting chance. I just want to thank you all for buying products at Infowarsstorecom, like books and films and supplements, and water filtration, air filtration and so much more. But for those of you that want to actually give us a straight donation so we get almost 100% of the money to fund our operation during this critical time, go to Infowarsstorecom and right at the top you'll see a link to make a straight donation, a one-time donation of $5,, $10,, $50, or a recurring donation. you can cancel any time. I want to thank all of you that have donated. I want to encourage those of you out there that want to support Freedom to take action now and be part of the global awakening the new renaissance that's countering the Great Reset, by going to Infowarsstorecom and clicking on the Donate button and giving today. Thank you so much for your support. Please take action, Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones, Live from the InfoWarscom studios. it's Alex Jones. You keep saying you've got something for me, Something you call love, Something you call love, But confess You've been a messin'. Well, you shouldn't have been a messin' And now someone else is gettin' all your best. These boots are made for walkin'. These boots are made for walkin', And that's just what they'll do One of these days, these boots are gonna walk all over you. Now we've got on screen here at TVB, where you can see it: lawmakers wearing pink high heels in Canada to raise awareness for violence against women, Just like they have. the military, the US Army, wear red high heels now. All acts of humiliation, all acts of driving down masculinity and selling this whole operation. All of it is giant exercise in mind control. We have to reject it, like we reject the metaverse and all these other systems they're pushing. All right, I'm gonna go to your phone calls and then, after we intersperse some calls, I'm going to get to this other news. Fauci's been caught lying to Congress, and so has the Secretary of State Blinken. Fauci lied and told Congress I am not involved in censoring the Internet or Twitter. Turns out he was running the censorship over Twitter. The documents have come out. Same thing with Blinken. Nothing to do with the fake dossiers, Nothing to do with suppressing the laptop. That's all come out. I mean, everything they say is a lie. We've got the legislation introduced for Internet ID that will then control the censorship, and the central bank, digital currencies, a bunch of election news and so much more here today. So let's start going to your calls First up, ladies and gentlemen, and taking your calls, the order they've been received. let's go to Justin in Massachusetts. You're on the air, Go ahead. Hi, I'm going to run through a couple of things real quick and if you have any questions you can reply. First of all, Trump is absolutely a traitor to humanity. Anybody that has even a 50 IQ level has recognized that. he is still pushing the death needles and we know that these things are killing people, causing immune problems, and now it has also been shown that they are causing people's faces to begin to glow orange under UV lights. So if you have taken the shot or been exposed or had sexual intercourse or been around people that have taken the shot- I've seen those reports and I meant to get to that. Yeah, it's literally creating a prion matrix in the body. This is just so devastating, Yeah. so all of this transgender nonsense and all that stuff, it's horrible. It is blatantly in the face of the teachings of God and the Bible, but really it's kind of to distract us from the fact that they are attempting to mutate humans into something else and they can't hide it anymore. Some people have begun to display ultraviolet, sort of a bluish light on their hands in some cases, and this is real, unfortunately. And don't forget the magnets. The magnets right after you get the shot- 100%- are sticking to people. That's real. Well, I have not personally seen that. I have absolutely no question that. that's true. I've seen videos of it. I've not seen it personally. I haven't seen the face glow. I have seen it in many people. In fact, it starts around the base of the nose and then gradually spreads to the cheeks, up through the bridge of the nose, into the forehead and then the chin, And then over a period of time, the hands will begin to form purple splotches that are all visible under UV light and apparently it doesn't look like there's really anything can be done about it as of right now. All right, I appreciate your call. We'll have to look into that. I have seen some of that. Ladies and gentlemen, it makes your body permanently create the HIV spike protein. Now that sounds totally insane to say that on air. It's a fact That one act alone is Twilight Zone level and there's just Twilight Zone, Hyper Twilight Zone, Hyper Twilight Zone. But I don't think that the trans thing is a distraction. It is one of their main pushes to sexualize and ruin our children. But I agree, compared to the mutation shots that thank God almost nobody's taking them now and they're not making them mandatory, at least here they made a major run at us And, look, they wouldn't have done all this poisoning if they weren't planning something bigger in the future that will make us forget about that. You kill a story with a story and they're telling you their new disease is about to be released. They love to brag. Thank you for the call. Okay, Let's go ahead and talk to Daryl in Georgia. Go ahead. Hey, thank you, Alex, for taking my call. Okay, so I wanted to speak about all this. Okay, humanity's under attack and we're just going to have to. Does the cat got your tongue, brother? It's okay, You want me to put you on hold? Yeah, yeah, yeah, Put you on hold. Put you on hold. I'm going to come back to you. Okay, It's okay, We understand that. Jerry, in Pennsylvania, You're on the air. We'll go back to Darrell in a minute. Go ahead, Jerry. Hey, Alex, Jerry here. Thank you for calling me back. I'm a holdover for yesterday, so when you say that at the end of the show, you truly mean it. I appreciate that. I've been listening to you for 15 years approximately, Glenn Beck. he kind of chased me over to you. He started calling you crazy back then and I thought who the heck is this guy Started listening to you, hung on for a month and then I got hooked and then I stopped listening to Glenn Beck totally. and I've been listening to you and following you and I do. Well, I want to just say something before you make your points. I'd rather have somebody better than Alex Jones out there that breaks through and defeats the New World Order, and I'll retire right now and go to our family ranch and raise cattle and raise pine trees and Christmas trees- That's what we do- and raise beehives and produce honey. I'm a farmer, I'm a rancher. I don't want to be doing this, but I have to. so I'm not in competition with Glenn Beck. I just wish he wouldn't have been so traitorous and a liar. Everything he says today I was saying 15 years ago when he was attacking me. I'm glad he's on board now so I forgive him. We can just move on from Glenn Beck and I like there's people out there that are I don't want to say slicker, but a better presenter overall, people like Tucker Carlson. so I am very pleased and I don't want to say I've reached retirement yet, but we are now starting to get in the position of my mission of becoming redundant, obsolete, because everybody knows the truth. because you're not listening to Alex Jones, You're discovering what I've already seen. See it for yourself. You look at the glasses and they live The glasses. just let you see the real reality. so I don't once people have the glasses, my job's done. 29 years has been a long time. I'm happy to keep doing it. I'll probably be here another five. I mean, I'll never give up, but the point is I'd rather just win, but go ahead and make your point and I'll shut up. Well, I don't want to burst your bubble that there's nobody better than you, so you can't retire on it. Well, currently, that's the truth, and but really, where I've become successful is I'm so well-known. I get to talk to all the big guys you know, hang out with them and influence them, so some of my best work is on the telephone with Joe Rogan, Tucker, Carlson and a lot of other people. leaders. You are the king. Well, don't say that too much, because that's why they're trying to kill me. but look, the point is. you understand, though, that I need to become obsolete or they're going to kill me because I'm not looking to die. so enough about me, but I appreciate you. What's on your mind, brother? You know I typed. if you want to, I'll do a little infomercial for you. otherwise I'll get right to my question. No, no, do the infomercial, I'll hold you over. then you can make your political point, go ahead. You know I've been using all your products for years and after listening the past couple weeks, with all this transgender nonsense and everything going so bad in the world, I was looking in my cabinet yesterday when I was on hold because I had the day off. you need to start pushing the happies again. but I have Nitric Boost, I have your Nitric Oxide, your Real Red Pill Plus, Super Male Vitality, Winter Sun, you name it. I have it. and I just got the new Turbo Force Plus and I've been mixing it with the Vitamin Mineral Fusion, which the taste is absolutely phenomenal together. so it's a winner for sure, and it does work Well. Jerry, I appreciate your comments. so you really like the products Absolutely. and, most importantly, you know when you called out to the audience when you were having financial difficulties, I just called in. I'd give $500, $700.. You're the reason we're here. without you, we'd be shut down. Stan, we'll come right back to you. I talk a lot about the great successes InfoWars has had. I don't think anybody can deny it, and it is because of listeners and viewers supporting us. but when we talk about the crew at InfoWars- people behind the scenes, the researchers, the writers- they really have been the MVPs in this fight, and when you look at Harrison Smith and Owen Schroer and the hard work they engage in every day- five, six, seven days a week- it's really just incredible. so for myself and the whole InfoWars crew, I thank you for your past support and I want to encourage you now to realize that InfoWars cannot stay on air if you do not support us. I know you spread the word, I know you pray for us and that's wonderful. keep doing it. but most viewers and listeners never go to InfoWarsStorecom and you never buy great products that enrich and empower your life all at the same time. keep us on air. I know that less than 1% of our listeners actually go buy products at InfoWarsStorecom. If just 1% more of you took action and went to InfoWarsStorecom, our funding problems will be over. Please take action now. Thousands of former Nazis went to work for the United States government. A flying disc has been found and is now in the possession of the Army. Here is a bulletin from CBS News: President Kennedy has been shot. This is a different kind of war. The USS Liberty had just been attacked by Israeli jets and torpedo boats. The CIA could manipulate the news in the United States. They took the babies out of incubators and left the children to die on the cold floor. It was almost as if there were a plan in motion. it just can't end. We need to go into the Capitol. That that that You will always have conspiracy theories. They are nothing but distractions. You guys censored Harvard educated doctors. You silenced those voices. What we want to do in Davos is push the reset button. Soon as we start exposing the Great Reset, the sooner these globalists start going to prison. Tomorrow's News Today. This is their big move. So yeah, you say: why doesn't Biden address the disasters in the United States? He doesn't care. That's not his job. He's not the President of the United States, He's a puppet operating for the globalists. Appetites of the autocrat cannot be appeased. They must be opposed, And that's who he works with. Autocrats only understand one word: No, no, no, Exactly. And that's why we say no to your vaccines. We say no to you shutting down our businesses. We say no to you taking our firearms. We say no to you censoring our free speech. We say no to you selling us out to the World Health Organization. We say no to you getting us into World War III. You're right. We stand against autocrats like you, Joe Biden, And we say no, And we say no to your war. There is a war for the future happening right now. There is a war that will control my destiny, your destiny, our children's destinies, And that war is something that we can win, But it takes dedication, It takes commitment. That's why I ask listeners respectfully to go to Infowarsstorecom and buy great products that will enrich and empower your life while keeping us on air at the very same time. Infowarsstorecom to get a signed or unsigned copy of my book The Great Reset and War for the World. Ultimate Bone Broth Back in Stock. Nitric Boost- The amazing CBD oil we have. that's the highest quality you're going to find anywhere at more than half off. It's all available at Infowarsstorecom. Some of the very best products And a lot of you have never shopped at Infowarsstore. You've been watching for years. You've been listening for years, But you've never taken the step to go to Infowarsstore. These are great products that really work and are amazing. Plus, they keep us on air. So please take action. Go to Infowarsstorecom today And I thank you. I am a shotgun rider. I am a shotgun rider for the San Jacinto line. the desert is my brother. my skin is cracked and dry. I was riding on a cold coast and everything was fine until we took a shorter road to save some time. Bandits only fired once. bandits only fired once. they shot me in the chest. they may have wounded me. they may have wounded me, but they'll never get the best of better men. I'll ride again. I'll ride again. always, stay on the horse. don't give up. we're gonna win. get behind me safe. I am a river gambler. I make a living dealing cards. my clothes are smooth and honest. my heart is cold and hard. I was shuffling horses dealt to boys on a boat for New Orleans. I was the greatest shark they'd ever seen. But the captain bumped a sandbar and an ace fell from my sleeve. they threw me overboard. I swore I didn't cheat, but I could swear. The line in the sand folks is the children You let them come after our children. you don't fight them. everything you got God is gonna cut you off for eternity. You will burn. Absence from God is a hell unspeakable. We will not be forgotten. we won't be left behind. Alright, let's go back to your phone calls. I'm gonna hurry through them now. What was your point, Jerry? that you wanted to get to? Thanks for the plugs and things. but what were the points you wanted to make about RFK Jr? You know I watched his entire speech the other day and I listened, giving him a chance, thinking he was just gonna be another Democrat. But I gotta be honest. I'm a two-time Trumper and I'm not a Trumper at all anymore. You know he's still pushing the shots. I agree with Justin, one of your last callers, you know, Joe Biggs. he's still in jail. He left you standing high and dry at the Capitol. I mean he hasn't come out. I mean if people don't see that he's part of the problem, they're crazy. But after listening to Bobby Kennedy Jr- and I was a Democrat up until I was 22, and I'm 58, I've switched. but I actually thought to myself after watching that speech. everything he said was fantastic. If he's the real deal, I mean I think we gotta give him a look. Yesterday, when I was on hold, you mentioned you were gonna do a Saturday show on him. Better yet, you should invite him on. He'd come on. Well, no, no, here's the deal. I've talked to Kennedy's people and they say: we're talking 20 years ago, 10 years ago, they go. Mr Kennedy respects you, thinks you're doing great work, but obviously you are so toxic with some people that it would hurt some of his long-term plans. He's been planning to run for president forever. He's been building his network. I think he's a good man overall. I agree with all his policies, but I know he's a real- I mean you can feel it. discernment, see it America first he gets it And I think he should get the nomination from the Democrats and then it could be Trump versus him or however that's gonna go down. But I don't think Kennedy should come on because with his constituents that would probably hurt him and might lose it. But yes, Kennedy is a listener. I'll leave it at that. We have the same publisher of his books, of my book, and I'm not gonna try to get Kennedy in trouble with this. And of course he can deny it if he wants. that's fine. but Kennedy's definitely awake and knows what's going on and has been listening to the show for a very long time. I mean my gosh. you know I've been at the forefront of the JFK assassination and Robert F Kennedy assassination information and, of course, covered it forever. Well, he knows better than anybody what really happened. so that'll kind of wake you up when the government kills your dad and your uncle. So I really appreciate your call. All right, Daryl was kind of surprised. I went to him so quick. I get that sometimes you forget your thoughts. So we gave Daryl a few minutes to relax and get back in focus. And again, it's a ton away from that kitty cat. So, Daryl, you're on the air from Georgia. Go ahead, brother. Okay, you got it. Well, I was nervous. Yeah, I can see all the signs we're going through. Humanity is just going through the meat grinder. If you can see what's happening, there's no doubt that evil is trying to take over. every country in this world lost elections: Brazil, Peru, America, It doesn't matter. I do not believe that Trump, if he does get a nomination, I do not believe that he will succeed. They will steal it from him again. They've done it. They've already taken two other elections and it's so evident and we know it. There are signs everywhere and we have to look at the signs. And I really wanted to call in yesterday and talk about the universal basic income because I believe that is the mark of the beast system And what's going to lead up to that is probably going to be a major war or another purposely pandemic. And if we see those signs then we'll know that it's coming and we just have to keep preparing. And I could remember talking to my family about in World War II they gave people war rations. So when we see the pandemic rations coming in the future through the big banks, it's going to happen. You're going to see it doesn't matter if you're an American or a legal person. the Democrats are going to steal elections. They're going to give whomever, whoever. Well, that's right. They're putting a permanent dictatorship in. but we're getting a lot of state laws passed to block them. There was just a big victory yesterday- that's in the news today- in Cochise County, the second most populous county in Arizona. under state law, like it is the rest of the country, Local elections are run by the locals. If there's a problem, the state board of elections, which the lady that stole the election used to run can then come and investigate it or oversee it. Then the legislature can get involved as well as the final check and balance. She's trying to go through all the counties and say she runs them now with her people and the judge said no. So I hear what you're saying. I appreciate your call. I'm going to go to Jen in Washington. Let's talk about the state bill in Washington to take children away from their parents and sterilize them and not tell the parents where they are, not even tell them that they grabbed them. I mean just unpacking that is almost impossible. I read the bill. It sounds like you're in the twilight zone on acid. I mean it's just like. I mean this is just so overt. On a scale of one to 10, it's a 12.. I mean it's just ridiculous. But this is even more ridiculous: the gaslighting of one of the biggest bald-faced liars I've ever seen. That says a lot for Congress. House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries says men and women's sports is an issue that doesn't exist because there are not men and women's sports, because those men are women. I mean this is just. it's just. it's incredible. In the majority of states now many of the top sports track swimming, wrestling- all of it is dominated by men. I mean the UFC biological men get up and break women's jaws. It's just as delusional as saying a heavyweight fighter- let's say George Foreman at his peak- could say he was a featherweight because he identified as weighing 140 pounds. He weighs like 270 pounds of pure muscle. He's like, well, no, I identify as a featherweight and gets there and kills some dude. I mean it's just ridiculous. No matter how tough Floyd Waymother is, he gets in the ring with Mike Tyson in his prime. Mike Tyson is going to kill him. Well, it's even more ridiculous to stick these men in the ring with women. Freaking ridiculous man. It's disgusting and it's mind control And all these cowards go along with it. But even Bill Maher's coming out against the left saying people are psychotics. man, Yeah, look at these videos. Like one of the top rugby players in the world is a man against women. He weighs like 300 pounds, runs these women over, got these giant men beating. I mean it's just, it's disgusting. Jen in Washington, your take on the bill that's passed to take children away from their parents secretly and put them in camps. Go ahead. Hi Alex, I'm a first-time crawler And I just wanted to say that my husband and I take your supplements and they're all absolutely amazing. Thank you for getting Turbo Force back in, because that is a complete lifesaver. So anyways, on the other note, Washington State is completely screwed. I've lived here my whole life and my kids were in Catholic school their entire life And I just recently pulled them out, homeschooled them last year and put them in public school this year, because I live within the school district of Locking School And I figured: what am I paying? you know, freaking $15,000 a year for my kids to go to public school when they're basically, Yeah, you're paying to have your child's innocence and mind destroyed. Yeah, and you know, everything was good at the Catholic school for quite a while and a new principal came in from Gonzaga Prep and Hold on, I don't want to cut you short, Hold for two more minutes. We're going to come right back to you, Okay, please, Jen. Yep, you got me. I noticed I went to you a little bit late and I'm sorry. My mother is a Baptist but also a sense of family that was Methodist, So she would go to the first Methodist to Austin that's been here since the city was built a hundred plus years ago And overnight they brought in preachers, like 10 years ago. that went from being classic liberals, anti-war, good people, to being like we're transgender, your kids belong to us. She taught Sunday school there, had to stop doing it, But then she went around and checked all the other major Methodist churches the same year to the same thing. It's the same thing. They hit us all at once. They're taking everything over. They put their people in everywhere. They decided to not perp-walking, not put him in handcuffs, not do a mugshot, because they knew that that would help Trump. Didn't? they know this would backfire. We were waiting for the mugshot. We learned today they wouldn't have it, so we've made our own And it says political prisoner with an image of President Trump. The shirt is being printed now in Texas. It'll be shipping out to you in one week. Political prisoner with Trump on the front there in a mugshot jail background. It's a fundraiser shirt. It says InfoWarscom on the back of the shirt. We also have Alex Jones for President. No, I'm not running for president. It's a really nice navy blue, high quality shirt- red, white and blue- Alex Jones for President 2024.. It's a fun, conversational piece and a limited edition shirt. Great way to fund the operation. So get your Alex Jones for President and Trump mugshot shirts at InfoWarsStorecom or by calling toll free 888-253-3139.. Hydrofluorosilicic acid is the third most deadly acid on earth And they've got our children drinking that. This is a psychotic death cult Period Case closed. Out to get you and your family. We sell the Alexa Pure Breeze made by the My Patriot Supply Ready Hour Group. It's been around about 15 years, became the biggest company in the last six. They went out, hired engineers, reverse engineered the fancy best water filter system out there that sells for twice the price, And they made it as good in all the studies. It reduces things to non-detectable levels- thousands of chemicals, But you can go pay two or three times. There's four or five other filters out there that are just as good. We sell the very best, highest grade water filtration system for half the price of the leading competitor And the media says we're bad and a cult for telling you you should filter your water. You should also filter your shower water. That's another way you absorb this crap. But I'm done talking about that. The point is you get the filters at InfoWarsStorecom. They're discounted right now. Finally back in stock, Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. It's Alex Jones Waging war on corruption. You think your private lives mean nothing of the kind. There is no true escape. I'm watching all the time, I fear, in space. I'm looking down on you. I just trace everything you do. You think your private lives mean nothing of the kind? All right, I cut the nice lady's chin off because we're going to break. I want to make this point And I know most of you already know this- For people that never really got this. I want you to understand the enemy tactic. When Dylan Mulvaney came out three weeks ago and endorsed Bud Light and Anheuser-Busch lost $6 million in two weeks- Tons of innumerable money- by upwards of half of their sales going down. They'll never recover. And you say, why would they do that? Well, you notice suddenly all these big cosmetic companies and just Nike, and everybody just said, Oh, we want to be part of that. during the boycott, That's the globalists swarming you. My daughter was going to a preschool that had a really good rating and was really great- And we're not Catholic, but it was a Catholic preschool And she did great. This was a couple of years ago. She was already reading, doing stuff. They had really good academics And all of a sudden. the next year we had to pull her out because it went from being completely good to communist, like that. We're watching what's going on because they brought in new people. That was a year and a half ago And it's been happening in waves, but it's everywhere. It's happening in Protestant churches, Catholic. It's happening in the colleges, the public schools. They're putting their people in that were already entrained at once because they don't want it to happen. here and there, Everybody leaves the school. They want to get it to where you can't go anywhere, because they've gotten everywhere And the globalists have unlimited money. So you were saying your child or children were in Catholic school. but now, overnight, finish up your story, Go ahead. Yeah, you're exactly right. The principal came in and everything just went completely sideways. I mean liberal agenda curriculum all the way. I mean my 7th grader was asked to write an essay on what he thought about abortion at a Catholic school. It just didn't make any sense to me. Well, the left has been training their academics and their ecclesiastical people to invade forever, but now they're making their move Exactly. It's just like: can we have any of our own spaces? And their answer is no, We're going to capture your spaces, by invading women's restrooms and locker rooms, by taking over your churches, taking over your schools. So what do you think? I'm sorry, I'm ranting. What else happened? Well, you know, just the ADHD thing too. I mean, they're constantly trying to force my son on meds, not this year so far at the public school, but I mean probably three times throughout the six years, seven years that we were at the Catholic school. You know, multiple teachers would try to get me to go to the doctor. Same thing happened to me, Same thing happened with my children. And that's what's crazy is the public school is better than the Catholic school overnight, Isn't that scary? And then the conservative Catholic schools are literally called the number one national security threat because they're the biggest private schools left. Think about that. Yeah, And the money that you pay is just astronomical amounts for just something that I'm getting for free over here in the public school district. And you know, I didn't know that Common Core was created and funded by the gate. Absolutely I had no idea. And when I learned that I was just mind blown. I mean, it makes sense, right, It totally does, because it's just complete BS. You know, but this whole, this new bill, is just got. it's completely sideways with where we're trying to go as parents. You can't take your child and hide them from you. And you know, I just learned that Inslee is stockpiling abortion pills- Yes, Like that is, you know. and then they're going to take your child. if they find them, They're going to put them in a secret dorm with other whacked out kids. Think of the sexual abuse I mean, just think of the staff. It's pedophile world. Oh, it is, It is. And you know the schools are already just. I mean, my kids will not. First off, they will not eat the school food. I do not trust it. They do not drink the water down there. And you're educating your children about what's going on. The key is: warn your children ahead of time. what's happening. God bless you, Jen. More calls straight ahead. Turbo Force is back, sold out for eight months and it's Turbo Force Plus. We made it even stronger, The strongest long-term energy you're going to find anywhere. Turbo Force is back in stock at Infowarsstorecom or 888-253-3139.. It's not just wide-spectrum natural herbs. that time-release over 10 hours- It should be called 10-hour energy. It has a bunch of vitamins and minerals and a bunch of other key things and amino acids that turbocharge everything and are good for your heart, your brain, your liver. you name it. It is the super fuel. Rain Force Plus is great. Rain Force Ultra is great. They're two different nootropics. They go good with this, But this is the King Kong, This is the boss. Turbo Force- back in stock, discounted Infowarsstorecom. More power, more strength, more energy. You are listening to an Infowarscom frontline report. It's Alex Jones. You are listening to an Infowarscom frontline report. You know I mentioned this clip before I got to your calls, at the end of Hour 3, so let me go ahead and play it. The full clip is on Infowarscom. This is House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries. He says men and women's sports is an issue that doesn't exist. And again in the full clip he says: because these are women, It's like oh no, these are women we're putting in prison that then get people pregnant. We played the quote trans activist earlier that says he's going to kill anybody that questions him in women's restrooms. He's going to shoot anybody saying, oh, and please put me in prison. I love prison. I'm sure you love being in a women's prison. I mean, it's just we're allowing the very most disturbed people, funded by the establishment, to run wild and then we've got a House Minority Leader with crap like this, And the extreme right Republicans are trying to sensationalize an issue that doesn't really exist in the way that they are falsely portraying. You know loop that a couple times with B-roll that you showed last hour, Just, you know a minute. We got hours of it of men in wrestling, men in boxing, men in MMA, men in swimming, men in track, men in basketball, men in rugby, men in football going out and just running over women, And I know there's some tough women out there. but I played football okay and I wasn't that good at football. I was just good enough for them to actually put me into the game and I realized I actually hated being hurt because there was no reason to get hurt. I didn't hate the people that were hurting me. Now, if I got in a fight, I didn't mind getting hurt. but I quit football when I was a sophomore because I was just like what's the point of having broken bones and you know all the rest of it. But let me tell you something: You could take a bunch of women and put them in football pads in front of me- five women and I guarantee you I'd run over their ass all day long, But up against men, I was getting my ass ran over. Let me tell you, football's tough. Some running back comes running through there and you're a linebacker and they run their helmet straight into your chest and you're on the ground and can't breathe for about a minute. That'll make you quit real quick. And let me tell you something: These women don't deserve this type of crap. So it's a joke, ladies and gentlemen. It's a joke, But you heard him Play the clip again. It doesn't exist. And extreme right Republicans are trying to sensationalize an issue that doesn't really exist in the way that they are falsely portraying. And extreme right Republicans are trying to sensationalize an issue that doesn't really exist. And extreme right Republicans are trying to sensationalize an issue that doesn't really exist. And extreme right Republicans are trying to sensationalize an issue that doesn't really exist. Again, if you're a radio listener, you're like that's kind of repetitive. Well, we're just rolling it with men dominating all the sports around the world in women's sports And we just sit here and put up with this, because it's the murder of logic. All right, Faz Man in Hawaii, I'm jealous. What island are you on? How are you doing Alex? Hi, I'm on Oahu. All right, brother, What's on your mind? Yeah, I want to talk about Michael Obama, talking about all this transgender stuff. No, I believe Michelle Obama is a man. We make jokes about it and stuff. But Joan Rivers said: look, I've seen Michelle Obama at the 2004 or 2008 Democrat National Convention And Michelle Obama has the shoulders of a linebacker And if you look at early photos of him with Obama, it's a man And absolutely. And then you learn in his own book, Dreams of My Father, he talks about how he was raised by a transgender woman in Indonesia. So, yes, I think this is all. I believe that Big Mike is Big Mike. Go ahead and make your point. Well, I mean, all we have is the Joan Rivers video. I mean, can't we just be more exposed? I mean there's got to be more out there. Well, let me answer your question. Well, let me make your point, because I've been interrupting. I don't know what your point was, But have you seen them come out of Harvard or whatever school? they put their daughters in, the supposed daughters that look nothing like Obama or nothing like Big Mike, that reportedly are adopted from another family? The point is it's the Truman Show. Have you seen Michelle Obama Guys pull up. Michelle Obama comes out of university in large penis and pants- I think that's what it is- And, look, we all know what it looks like when somebody's not wearing underwear, Okay, And Michelle Obama walks out, They get in the car, She comes downstairs, He comes downstairs And it looks like a giant rubber snake is in her pants, Okay, And you can see it bouncing up and down. You can see the testicles right through the pants bouncing around, bigger than Dallas. Okay, And I haven't covered this in years. You just called in about it, so it'll take us time to find it, Guys, Michelle Obama, man, Yeah, here it is, Here it is. Now slow this down and blow it up, Okay. I mean, look at this. I mean we're talking a junk. Everybody knows what a man looks like adjusting their junk. Okay, And that's a man adjusting it and it's bouncing man, It's bouncing. I mean that is it right there? That didn't tape it back. that That is a ding-dong, That is testicles. I mean that is a fact. While he's talking, just keep looping that. Go ahead. Yeah, so why can't this be more exposed? I mean, I think he played college football too- Oregon State, And his brother, I guess, was a coach over there in basketball. They probably hit everything up. Where's the real fraud? This needs to be exposed, pretty much at the top of the list. If we can expose this, people still think that he is a she. I mean this needs to be the topic of conversation. No, I agree, It's all part of the joke on us. It's all part of them spiking the football on us. Anything else, Well, you know, I mean, what do you think? I mean, how are we going to get this exposed? How is this going to come out? I mean, we've got to expose this. If we expose this and people say it, then they go back and say why did the media hide all this for years? And you could realize that the media is so fraudulent And you know why would they hide all this stuff? Where is all these documents? Where's the pictures in college football that he played? You can't just go up with Joan, No, no, no, I hear you. You said you can't just go up with Joan Rivers. You're the one that raised it. But I mean I just showed you. Obviously you're not watching. I just showed you video of Michelle Obama adjusting. clearly a flaccid penis and testicles bouncing around, And anybody that's a guy knows what it looks like. I appreciate your call. Since you mentioned Joan Rivers, she died about a month after she said this. Here it is: The United States will see the first gay president or the first woman president. We already have it with Obama, so let's just calm down, Got it? You know Michelle is a trans- I'm sorry, she's a what A transgender We all know. We all know And I don't hate Michelle Obama because she was a man that wants to be a woman. It's that I hate the policies of Michelle Obama And let me tell you nothing pisses them off more than I was talking about this, nothing. There's a bunch of other videos, but I really don't want to air videos of Michelle Obama's junk bounced around, Like now that I started thinking about it, there's like 15 other videos more that I mean it's just bam bam bouncing around. I mean give me a break, man, Give me a break. Okay, Like I said, if I was a woman- and I'm not packing the Tyrannosaurus Rex, you know, foot long like- uh, it's not, you know not small, but it's not, that's probably flaccid. six inches in the pants Probably got a foot and a half long penis there, I mean that's. I mean big Mike's, got big Mike and star in major porn movies here, And so if you saw me at the beach and I and I was dressed up in a wig and stuff, but you could see I got a bulge in my pants. I mean, come on, man, I'm a man, I've got testicles and I've got a penis, Okay, And you can see, if I'm at the beach, even in baggy shorts or whatever, that I've got something in there. Well, I mean, Michelle Obama has got an Anaconda in his pants. I mean it's ridiculous. The guy's walking around with a giant ding-a-ling bouncing around and we're looking at the damn thing and they're like two men can have a baby. The shot works. You're sick. I mean, it's all lies, It's all part of the crazy town. This is a trans cult the entire time. Do I hate people that have done it? No, If they don't have politics to mess with kids, their adults do what they want. Yeah, More videos of the ding-a-ling, All right, I just no more. Let's not focus on big Mike's package anymore. We're going to go to break. Big Mike is big. I mean, big Mike's a big man. It ain't no woman. We'll be right back. Stay with us. In the early 1900s, certain companies were off-gassing highly toxic fluoride gases into the atmosphere, The surrounding communities began to get sick. Laws were enacted to compel these corporations to install scrubbers to convert these gases into fluorosilicic acid, Still highly toxic but containable. Now these companies had a stockpile of this poison And there was no affordable way to dispose of it. Lucky for them, one of their major stockholders was also the Secretary of the Treasury, who was responsible for the Public Health Service at the time, And by 1950, the US government began buying this toxic, untreated industrial waste product and dumping it into our drinking water. Reputable studies show that it's causing various cancers and other disease. With the Alexa Pure Pro, you can have clean drinking water And a remedy to this madness, Available now at InfoWareStorecom. It's time to show them what a real alpha male looks like with one of our most powerful products ever made, Alpha Power. As you age, your body can lose testosterone over time. With the incredible ingredients in this formula, we can help you beat the test of time and assist in restoring that lost energy and gluten that comes with time and age. Alpha Power's incredible ingredients can help you boost your sports performance or enhance your day-to-day life with ease, while encouraging hormonal balance. Perfect by itself or with super male vitality in the true alpha male pack. Alpha Power can help boost performance, help maintain normal testosterone levels, support healthy cholesterol and more. Let Alpha Power help bring you to the peak of your optimal health. Don't fall short on energy in the fight against tyranny. Show the world what a true alpha male looks like. today, with Alpha Power. Head to InfoWareStorecom today The most banned man in America, Alex Jones. I want you all to know something. Alex Jones was right. Alex is right about far more than he's wrong. Alex has been right on for over a decade. I don't care how you slice it, dice it, flip it up or rub it down. Alex Jones was right. Think about how frustrated we are. if you've been awake for a year or two. Imagine being like an Alex Jones or those guys who've been awake for like decades. Alex Jones called this years ago. years ago. Alex Jones never bought the Russia hoax- not for a second. You are one of the great thinkers of this. You are a martyr to the First Amendment. The government fears Alex Jones. That's why the globalists hate me is because I'm exposing their corporate worldwide tyranny Right now. I'm not talking to the viewers and listeners that have gone to InfoWareStorecom and gotten the great products that enrich your life, that empower your immune system and your body and keep us on air. I am humbly, hand in hand, talking to the viewers and listeners that have tuned in, many of you for years and never gone to InfoWareStorecom. We know the vast, vast, vast, vast majority of you never actually go to InfoWareStorecom and never experienced these great products and never found the operation. Sure, you share a link, you share an article, you tell folks about the show. That's great and I thank you, but we need funds to operate. Plus, we've got really great products that do amazing things for people, like our CBD oil and our Fizzy Magnesium and our Sleep Aid and our Nitric Oxide and our Real Red Pill Plus. all of these are really great products that keep us on air. Plus, you're missing out on having these products, So get off the bench, Get in the game, Step to the plate and go to InfoWareStorecom right now and get these great InfoWare products at InfoWareStorecom. Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order, it's Alex Jones. The devil went down to Georgia. he was looking for a soul to steal. he was in a bind. he was way behind. he was willing to make a deal When he came across this young man sewing on a fiddle and playing it hot, and the devil jumped up on a hickory stump and said: boy, let me tell you what. I guess you didn't know it, but I'm a fiddle player too, and if you'd care to take a dare, I'll make a bet with you Now. you play a pretty good fiddle, boy, but give the devil his due. I've got a fiddle of gold against your soul, so I think I'm better than you. The boy said my name's Johnny and it might be a sin, but I'll take your bet. you're gonna regret, cause I'm the best there's ever been. Johnny, rise up, your poet, play your fiddle hard, cause hell's broke loose in Georgia and the devil deals the cards, and if you win, you get this shiny fiddle made of gold, but if you lose, the devil gets your soul. Alright, let's shut up the dollars. TJ in New York. thanks for calling, thanks for holding Alex. Alex, you were right. You were right, brother, you were right. I just want to thank you from the bottom of my heart for always encouraging your listeners to stand tall. Alex, I'm a father of a daughter. in 2020. we both had COVID really bad. well, she actually kicked it real quick. I had it really bad, but we had it before the vaccines were released. we had high antibody levels and yet when the vaccine was released, I had to fight my family inside my house and outside my house because I refused to give my daughter that shot. Thank you, brother, cause you were giving her possible death sentence. you stood up for her and we congratulate you. Alex, one of her best friends got vaccinated and had a heart attack. He survived, thank God. But even after that I still had to explain myself. when I was at family functions, One thing I would always tell my daughter is: don't let anyone take you to get vaccinated. If you're with your grandparents, That's right, cause in places like New York and other areas, they take them without the parents knowing. Again, that's illegal, but they're doing it. They are doing it, Alex. So I made sure that she knew. and then what happened is she began to see people who were vaccinated getting COVID. It started happening one time, two times, three times, and my daughter wasn't of age when they first released the vaccine. but then, when they started to lower the age, she was able, and I was even more adamant about her not getting it. So you know what? Now she looks at me and she goes: dad was right. Exactly, You are a microcosm of what's happened to this whole show. We're right, We've been proven right And we aren't. we don't shoot our mouths off, but we should. You should write letters to your family. You should speak and say: I love you, I care about you, but they lied to you and they're going to do it again. So they know what happened and they should know they're victims of what went on. You know we need reparations for the people that took these poison shots from Pfizer and Moderna, because they need to be put in prison and the hundreds of billions of dollars they have to be paid to the victims of their damn shots. We have real victims now. We have the people that actually did it. You know, Alex, I'll tell you something. brother, In the spirit of Jesus, I forgive them because they knew not what they were doing. However, I can't save everyone. I couldn't save my wife from getting them. I asked her- I begged her- to not get a booster, and she did not. I couldn't save my mother from getting it, but I begged her: don't get a booster and she did not. So all I can do now is move forward and tell people: listen, this is not conspiracy. Let me tell you something, Alex. If you ran for president, you would run away with the black vote. You do not have to convince black men that there is a eugenicist plot to destroy us. We know it is historical. I was telling people: listen, this is not conspiracy. The United States government has been trying to do this for the longest and now they're doing it to everyone. They're trying to kill us all. This is a problem. They want to kill our kids. Amen, brother, Just look, Keep warning, Keep doing what you're doing. Here's the good news And that's why it happens so bad in Republican states, because on average, they're better actually following the super regulations. If the vaccine goes above 87 degrees for even an hour, it's a live nanotech. It fails. It's still toxic, but not as bad. So most people that took it, they learned that they hadn't kept it cool, even though they were supposed to. So, thank God, incompetence ruined most of it or we'd be in a much worse place. God bless you. It's crazy what we've got to defend our families from, but it's our job. We're going to do it. Men are going to stand up. We're going to do it. Women are going to do it too, Mark, in Arkansas you're on the air. Thanks for calling and thanks for holding. It's Arkansas and I very much appreciate it. Alex, I'm very, truly touched. It's first time long time I've been listening to- for over 20 years. You woke me up when I was so pissed off about 9-11.. But what I have to say right now is: have you reviewed Ron DeSantis' Heritage Foundation speech? No, I've not. What foundation Heritage? No, I've not reviewed his Heritage Foundation speech. Tell me about it. He just gave it about an hour ago. I missed the last hour of Harrison's American Journal to listen to it. He hit on a lot of points but he didn't go over the top on anything. He just kind of touched it. But what I was going to say to you is: what do you think about RFK and Judge Knapp? Well, I think Judge Knapp's a great guy, but I don't have any inside baseball on what they're going to be, who's going to be choosing what. but I think Judge Knapp's a very credible, honorable person. I think he'd make a great vice president. He would be completely great and he's a constitutionalist and he would keep RFK in check. No, I agree with that statement, but just as a ticket to win Democrats, Tulsi Gabbard's won the first few debates in the polls, then they just shut her down and ignored her. Tulsi Gabbard's just left the Democratic Party but she could come back and run as his VP. She'd have a real woman who could string a sentence together, who's super smart, instead of Kamala Harris, and then you'd have RFK Jr and I just I got to say that I really like RFK, I really like him, I love RFK. but do you trust Tulsi Really? Yeah, I think she's come a long way. I have good discernment and I think she- just like Elon Musk, I think, is really waking up. It doesn't mean they can't revert back. No, no, I hear you. Well, who else would run with RFK? Who else would you think would be a good candidate? Michael Flynn, Oh gosh, Absolutely. That double Irish team there. that'd be phenomenal, Because I think General Michael Flynn or Judge Knapp would be constitutionally aware and keep RFK away. No, no, no, I mean I like Knapp, but I think Flynn's understanding of the military industrial complex, the deep state, what he's been through, I think that is a super ticket. but I know that Flynn has kind of demurred to Trump. He doesn't want to be president, He's not seeking power, which is exactly why he should be president. I think General Flynn ought to run for president on a Republican ticket. Nothing against Trump, but I think more competition's good. But yes, I would support an RFK General Flynn ticket 100%. If he put Flynn on his ticket, I'd probably vote for them over Trump. I'll be completely honest with you. All right, I appreciate your call. I'd love to vote for a Democrat. I'd love to take the Democratic Party over and just stop this suicidal circular firing squad we're in. I mean it's stupid And all right, We'll be right back with more of your phone calls straight ahead: Infowarscom: tomorrow's news today and VanDop video. Stay with us. You need to get coordinated with not only your food but also your health supplements, because it's going to be a matter of life and death. So support Infowars store. Listen. you need to put it as a priority because you don't know, I don't know. Alex and I are telling you how late it is before midnight strikes. And again, magnesium is critical for your muscles and everything. Krill oil. What I'm watching right before my eyes is a composite overview of nutritional supplements that will keep you alive, And I would urge everyone. Maybe you don't take vitamins, Maybe you don't take nutritional supplements, But the day will come. Vitamin C and zinc: Absolutely imperative for the cold DNA force, Absolutely Empirical. mineral fusion: Absolutely. As you're drinking filtered water, a lot of it will become demineralized. You have to have these products. The most banned man in America, Alex Jones. I want you all to know something: Alex Jones was right. Alex is right about far more than he's wrong. Alex has been right on for over a decade. I don't care how you slice it, dice it, flip it up or rub it down. Alex Jones was right. Think about how frustrated we are. if you've been awake for a year or two, Imagine being like an Alex Jones or those guys who've been awake for like decades. Alex Jones called this years ago, Years ago. Alex Jones never bought the Russia hoax, Not for a second. You are one of the great thinkers of this. You are a martyr to the First Amendment. The government fears Alex Jones. That's why the globalists hate me. It's because I'm exposing their corporate worldwide tyranny. In the early 1900s, certain companies were off gassing highly toxic fluoride gases into the atmosphere. The surrounding communities began to get sick. Laws were enacted to compel these corporations to install scrubbers to convert these gases into fluorosilicic acid, Still highly toxic but containable. Now these companies had a stockpile of this poison and there was no affordable way to dispose of it. Lucky for them, one of their major stockholders was also the Secretary of the Treasury, who was responsible for the public health service at the time, And by 1950, the US government began buying this toxic, untreated industrial waste product and dumping it into our drinking water. Reputable studies show that it's causing various cancers and other disease. With the Alexa Pure Pro, you can have clean drinking water and a remedy to this madness, Available now at infowarestorecom. Every time I talk to you, you're either like on the border exposing the cartels and like coming under fire, or you're on the streets of some American city hanging out with drug addicts and criminals. And now you've gone to ground zero of a massive chemical spill. Are you addicted to the danger, Savannah? Have you ever considered that for a second? No, I'm addicted to helping my fellow Americans. I'm addicted to spreading the truth. And again, you know I have Infowars to thank for that. Looking back on the day, I was able to ask President Donald Trump two questions. I was so grateful because, you know, I truly was classically trained under Alex Jones and under the Infowars team, And I really do credit that as to why I'm able to, you know, get these types of clips, because Alex's whole mentality was, you know, go where the story is, go where the mainstream media refuses to. So it's not that I'm addicted to the insanity, I'm just addicted to telling the truth and helping the American people. And I really do credit Alex for, you know, really instilling that within me early on in my career, Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones. We are in process of developing a whole series of techniques which will enable the controlling oligarchy to get people actually to love their servitude. People can be made to enjoy a state of affairs which, by any decent standard, they ought not to enjoy. Perhaps you had better start from the beginning. Perhaps you had better start from the beginning. Perhaps you had better start from the beginning. Too many kids are what's making planet worse. A lot of these kids come from bad gene pools. They don't have stable parents making good decisions. Mercury-containing vaccines may help, not harm, kids, according to two new studies in the journal Pediatric. These new studies suggest that the opposite, that the preservatives may actually be associated with improved behavior and mental performance. Fluoride in water is supposed to fight tooth decay, but could it also cause cancer? Oh yeah, the government had the right under US law to conduct secret testing on the American public under a specific condition: We have to work the dark side or we're going to spend time in the shadows. Any attempt to achieve world order must be the work of the devil. Well, join me, I'm glad to sit here at the right hand of Satan. There's a need for a new world order. Someday in the next few years, a solution will emerge. Here's the thing about a fight. None of us want to get in a fight, most of us don't. but once the fight starts, pretty much everybody goes ahead and starts swinging for the fences. You're not scared once you're in that fight, are you? Well, you're in a fight. You can roll over and die, or you can join the animating contest of liberty for the human species, the future of our world. All right, I'm going to go back to your calls here in a moment. But since we mentioned this, a caller earlier brought up Bill Gates and she- I think it was Jen- from Washington state, But she mentioned man. everything I research is Bill Gates. Well, that's because he works for the Carnegie Ford Rockefeller Foundation. They'd have another split off group. He merged with them in 1990 and has been running much of their operation since then. And I saw this video a few days ago and actually read about this two years ago when Gates was trying to bring it forward. And the government doesn't even do a process of approval. now He runs it, They just bring it forward And it's a bunch of estrogen, mimicking liquid plastic chemicals that they synthesize out of plant Protein. so they go: oh, it's just a plant product, It's safe. Well, you can take a plant or oil as well, anything that's carbon, And you can make whatever chemical you want by manipulating it. So it basically is a transgender cocktail, And I told you about this 20 years ago or more. And of course, now it's mainstream news that the chemicals and food and water are manipulating our endocrine systems, making men effeminate, making women hyper effeminate, And the left spins that goes since it came out. Well, let's make women more powerful. Well, no, it makes a woman age. So a woman goes into puberty at five instead of twelve And then she goes to menopause at thirty five. It gives you cancer, breast cancer. It's not good, They admit these things grow breast cancer. That's why Brazil, 20 years ago didn't use Roundup, But they had basically no breast cancer. Now they rival us Because they know what they're doing, so they make it all cute. Like David Hogg said, Jones claims his chemicals making the frogs gay. Well, that's good. Make them gay, Oh good, No more frogs. So a young lady put out a viral video that I've been sent quite a bit. Bringing all this up, It's Valor for Freedom on Instagram posted a video describing Bill Gates funded chemical They are planning to spray on fruits and vegetables. No, they're not planning. I looked it up. It's already started a year ago. The dangerous chemical Bill Gates is coating organic produce with- And it lists on here who's buying the produce And it looks like it's up to half the US Produce. And it's in baby formula. It's safe, says the United States Food Regulatory Administration, same ones that said the shots are safe, and the World Health Organization. It says pedophilia should be good, So safe that it's in products designed for even infants and the elderly, The world's most sensitive people. specifically, mono the digleridides can be found in products such as Simulac Pro, Advance infant formula, Ensure, N-Libe, Advanced Therapeutic Nutrition, both of which contain corn oil, sugar and corn syrup. noting that it could, And it just goes on from there. Here's the part I wanted to find. It's in Sprouts, Walmart, Whole Foods, Kroger. It just goes on and on. So let's go ahead and play this young lady reporting on this. Here it is. Bill Gates has funded a new product for your food, So let's go ahead and use our critical thinking skills to determine that that is red flag number one. It's colorless, tasteless and you can't scrub it off your food. But the king of depop says it's safe. It goes by the name Appeal and they are going to spray this on your fresh fruits and vegetables. They say that it'll help reduce plastic use and it'll save your fruits and veggies up to three times longer. I mean, don't even mind the fact that natural things degrade over time and lose nutritional value. But I saved the best for last. Their safe and effective new product has a long list of hazardous cautions. Spread the word And she puts those up on screen. so I went and looked them up and they're all connected to wait for it depop. I love how they've got an internet term now for it Depop. Just, you know it's depop. It's all about depop Shawn in Vegas. thanks for calling, thanks for holding. you're on the air. Hello, Yes, welcome, Hi, hi, Alex, It's taking me a long time to do this. I'm really bad on the phone. Well, you sound good, so tell us what's on your mind, Alright, so I've got three things I just wanted to go over really, really quick and then hang up because I'm nervous as hell. Okay, so, on the joking side, Kamala Harris is a man as well as Big Mike, And, on that subject back in the day, wasn't a transvestite a man that dressed up as a woman, As in today's world, even men with you know slongs are still considered like they're transgender. Isn't there a wash there or I don't know? that was the first subject on the funny side, Right? so, Alex, you've given me hope on days that I thought you know we didn't have any as a human race. Are you still there? Hello, Yes, ma'am, I'm right here listening to you 110%. you're on air live right now, Okay, okay. so you've given me hope when nothing else has Your show and subjects you go over and just you personally, your passion. Now, back in the day, with that show with Rima Labo, I think you planted the seed in my head. Me not even knowing. you saved my life when it came to the vaccination. I didn't take it and I didn't know why, and it dawned on me It was because of that show. you planted a seed in my head, So I thank you. Well, I want to thank you for supporting us and tuning in. We're all in this together. We can only beat this together. So when you thank me, I'm thanking you. And unfortunately my dad was fully boosted and he died last year. And then the third thing was about the virus, the C-19.. I got a list here, Every virus, and I think it was Dr Yidan. I'm not 100% sure, but I do a lot of research. In one of the videos I watched it was a doctor saying that no virus has ever been isolated. So basically, they come up with this fear campaign with the virus And you have to get vaccinated this, that and the other, And then the vaccine causes massive mutations in all regular cold viruses. Then we get all these new diseases. That was the plan, Bingo. Thank you for the call. All right, we're going to go to break Royce White's coming up. I'm going to take some of his time next hour And I'm going to get to everybody that's holding. No more calls, though after these We're not going to get any more on the board. We're going to take all the calls of everybody holding. Also, everybody needs to get an Alexa Pure water filter at InfoWarsTore. It is the highest rated gravity-fed filter. It cuts out all the garbage- non-technical levels at half the price of leading competitors- InfoWarsTorecom. They decided to not perp walking, not put him in handcuffs, not do a mug shot, because they knew that that would help Trump Didn't? they know this would backfire. We were waiting for the mug shot. We learned today they wouldn't have it. So we've made our own And it says Political Prisoner With an image of President Trump. The shirt is being printed now in Texas. It will be shipping out to you in one week. Political Prisoner With Trump on the front, There in a mug shot jail background. It's a fundraiser shirt. It says InfoWarscom on the back of the shirt. We also have Alex Jones for president. No, I'm not running for president. It's a really nice navy blue, high-quality shirt. Red, white and blue. Alex Jones for president 2024.. It's a fun, conversational piece And a limited edition shirt. Great way to fund the operation. So get your Alex Jones for president and Trump mug shot shirts at InfoWarsTorecom or by calling toll-free 888-253-3139.. Every time I talk to you, you're either on the border exposing the cartels and coming under fire, or you're on the streets of some American city hanging out with drug addicts and criminals, And now you've gone to ground zero of a massive chemical spill. Are you addicted to the danger, Savannah? Have you ever considered that for a second? No, I'm addicted to helping my fellow Americans. I'm addicted to spreading the truth And, again, I have InfoWars to thank for that. Looking back on the day I was able to ask President Donald Trump two questions. I was so grateful because I truly was classically trained under Alex Jones and under the InfoWars team And I really do credit that as to why I'm able to, you know, get these types of clips, Because Alex's whole mentality was, you know, go where the story is, Go where the mainstream media refuses to. So it's not that I'm addicted to the insanity, I'm just addicted to telling the truth and helping the American people, And I really do credit Alex for, you know, really instilling that within me early on in my career. Ladies and gentlemen, this book, The Great Reset and the War for the World, is a historic book that documents the globalists, in their own words, planned for our future. That is a hellish future. Now, you'll be always. while they still allow books- I guess they're starting to ban them- be able to get an unsigned copy of The Great Reset and the War for the World at bookstores, Amazon or InfoWarscom, But you will never be able to get another signed copy of the book after the signed copies we give away. But you will never be able to get another signed copy of the book after the signed copies we got run out And there's about a thousand left of them right now. So get your copy of The Great Reset and the War for the World- a signed copy- at InfoWarscom- And there is a markup there- because this is a fundraiser to keep us on the air- So you won't just have this historic memento and this powerful book, you'll also know that you help keep InfoWars on the air. I want to thank those of you that have gotten signed copies of the book or unsigned copies, But I want to encourage all of you who haven't yet to go to InfoWarscom and get a signed copy and buy a couple of unsigned copies and donate them to the library or give them to the local school. This is an InfoWar. I'm counting on you And thank you for your support. Hydrofluorosilicic acid is the third most deadly acid on earth And they've got our children drinking that. This is a psychotic death cult period Case closed. Out to get you and your family. We sell the Alexa Pure Breeze made by the My Patron Supply Ready Hour Group. It's been around about 15 years. It became the biggest company in the last six. They went out, hired engineers, reverse engineered the fancy best water filter system out there that sells for twice the price And they made it as good in all the studies. It reduces things to non-detectable levels, thousands of chemicals, But you can go pay two or three times. There's four or five other filters out there that are just as good. We sell the very best, highest grade water filtration system for half the price of leading competitor And the media says we're bad and a cult for telling you you should filter your water. You should also filter your shower water. That's another way you absorb this crap. But I'm done talking about that. The point is you can get the filters at InfoWarStorecom. They're discounted right now. Finally back in stock. Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. It's Alex Jones. He walks through the city in the center of town and pulls the high-tension wires down Godzilla With a purposeful grimace and a terrible sound. he pulls the spinning high-tension wires down. The helpless people on subway trains scream my God as he looks in on them. He picks up a bus and he throws it back down as he wades through the police who are in the center of town. All right, let me say something important here and I'll go right back to your phone call so you can say something important. Alan Dershowitz came out a few days ago after the Fox Dominion $700-something million settlement and said what I already knew was true. I just followed the case- but I'm not a top lawyer like him- that the judge found fact and said Fox is guilty. There's no evidence of election fraud and no evidence that machines can be hacked, even though it's admitted. We play countless videos of Democrats up there talking about it, but it's come out. We've covered it forever, but that's what happened to me in my rigged cases and I warned everybody They'll do it to everybody next, and they did. They have weaponized the judiciary, They have weaponized the courts, but because of the nature of the Internet, the way the world works, they can't shut us down. So don't worry about what they do to you for telling the truth. Worry about not speaking out. They want you silenced because your speech is so powerful. but listen, it's such a paradox, a conundrum. It's so ridiculous when they admit that almost every major water supply, including well water, is contaminated with glyphosates and, in some cases, thousands of chemicals- in most cases hundreds- to filter your water. So they go. Jones tells you the water is dangerous. then he sells you a filter. That's a scam. No, it's called direct sales. Like. this chemical makes your gas last longer, and it does, It's like. or this toothpaste works well. Yeah, I sell things that work. We have the Alexa Pure water filtration system ready to ship to you. sold out for a long time, They didn't have it for almost six months. That is the highest rated, best filter out there at half the price of the competitors. Some people sell the same filter for three to four times this. It's stainless steel, It's beautiful, It cuts everything out. Infowarsstorecom or 888-253-3139.. This is a simple proposition. Everybody needs clean water. Everybody needs to filter their water. We've got one of the best units at the lowest price out there. Everybody should say: I'm going to get the Alexa Pure Pro water filtration gravity system today at Infowarsstore And that keeps us on air and then you get a great filter that goes on your kitchen table or goes on your island or goes in your bathroom or goes in your business, wherever it is- to get clean water- tens of thousands of gallons- And the replacement filters are also available. It takes years to use them up at Infowarsstorecom or 888-253-3139.. Also, we got a pharmaceutical company that's Patriot-owned, who also is one of the top supplement makers, to let us clone three of their products that are already best sellers. One of them is sold out. We're getting more of HGH boost in the next few months, hopefully, But we have Testosterone 1776 Boost- That's our name. We private labeled it. It's the same as a national best seller they make- And Pain MD- a bunch of natural compounds that really mitigate pain and does a great job. Both products are still 40% off at Infowarsstorecom, but that sale is going to end soon and that keeps us on air. But you need to experience for your energy and your muscles and your stamina and your mental clarity. this helps keep the natural testosterone in your body free, so you get a bigger effect from it. Get 1776 Testosterone Boost or Pain MD at Infowarsstorecom today and I thank you for your support. Please take action now. It's all about action. And look at this headline Out of the New Republic: First Alex Jones and now Fox News. Connect the dots, people G. how come we don't see liberal media outlets paying huge settlements and defamation lawsuits? because they sue in democrat-controlled, rigged courts, as Alan Dershowitz said, and that's the plan. So when they came after me, I said what Trump has always said: that's true. They don't hate me, they hate you. they've got to get through me to get to you. So I know I'm in a war. If I walk outside today and they shoot me, I don't want to be killed, but I expect that I signed on for this. My decision is the victory, but it's got to be about your decision to realize you want people to fight, You want people to stand up for you. You want people to be fearless. We're doing it, but we cannot do it without you. So spread the word about the broadcast, Share the article, Share the videos. You're doing a great job. Keep it up, but also get the products at InfoWarshawcom and please pray for us. All right, let's go ahead now and go back to your calls. Let's talk to Brian in Texas. Thanks for holding her on the air. I'm mad as hell and I'm not gonna take this anymore. Yes, sir, Gay sexes should go loose right now. Congress men and women should be there right now and get them out out. This is ridiculous. They're totally rigging the trials against them and they're setting the president to put us all in prison. It's incredibly important what you're saying, Exactly. You know, I got video of you actually in the back of you, uh, as you were on the chairs telling everybody, hey, we don't want to let Ken stay here. I had it all, so I was there. man, It's crazy, It's ridiculous what it did to those people. How bad, uh, you know it was like, but it was like Woodstock. It was like Woodstock until then. It was historic. That's why they hijacked it. But hey, at least we were on the field. and look, it's blown to their face In national polls. the majority of Americans believe they still get the feds staged it. The majority of Americans- like not 75 percent- believe the election was stolen. So all their BS and all their censorship and all their propaganda, all their attacks, are not working. They should get millions of dollars and get out of there immediately. It's ridiculous, unless you actually did something, but not too many. It turns out it was federal agents broke in. We know that. Thank you, Brian. I appreciate your call. Great points. Yeah, Ryan, in Minnesota, you're on the air. Hello, Yes, go ahead. Hi, I'm a high schooler from Minnesota. This is an honor to talk to you. This is- this is a mind blow. The honor is all mine. Thank you, I really wanted to talk to you about an issue that affects me personally, Transgenderism specifically. I go to a high school and I see my classmates affected by it. My cousin is recently starting transitioning and I just I think it's heartbreaking, and these people are transitioning into being sterile. Have you lovingly explained how they programmed him and brainwashed him? My mom, I can't, We can't talk about it, And that's why you take hormones. Wow, Why can't you talk about it? Go ahead, Maybe, maybe, maybe you should. Why don't you give a message to your cousin right now and then take this video later and lovingly? We're not attacking who they are. They've been pre-programmed. Oh, you're oppressed. Oh, you're a victim. People are going to try to stop you from this. Yeah, we're trying to save them when they learn Bill Gates is behind it. Why don't you have a message your cousin? You know I love you and I want you to live a happy life, and I don't know what you're going through, but I don't think taking drugs and surgery is going to fix what the problem is, And if you ever need support from me or our other family members, we're here for you. I interrupted you. You said it's affecting you personally. Continue. Yeah, No, the issue of like transgenders and affects me personally because I see, I see my classmates and, like I said, my cousin and I really want to know how I can help combat it in my life and prevent my friends from being Well. I mean, it's a cult. They're trying to suppress those that have been hurt and just explain that it's a whole eugenics called targeting disadvantaged youth and confuse people and that it's a depopulation plan and just know that it's going to blow up in their face just like metaverse, like everything else. they push and just speak out as much as you can and then go speak at city council as a young person and then everyone will talk about the school. You know you're calling in to talk radio right now. You're doing it. Yeah, Anything else one. I just have one more question for you. I'm going to graduate high school soon and I was interested in joining the military, but after I don't, I don't think I'm wondering if I should anymore, with all the deep state and the government. Well, the military's got a lot of good people in it, but it's being targeted for depopulation as well. So I can't advise you. that's your own personal decision. but know what you're getting into. if you get in there- and I mean that's- I could talk for an hour to try to counsel you about what I think you should do with your life. What other interest do you have, Ryan? I really like politics, government, history. Well, let me give you advice when we come back. Let me give you advice when we come back. If you start speaking at city councils and school board meetings, we'll talk about when we come back. You need to get coordinated with not only your food but also your health supplements, because it's going to be a matter of life and death. So support InfoWars store. Listen. you need to put it as a priority because you don't know, I don't know. They're telling you how late it is before midnight strikes. And again, magnesium is critical for your muscles and everything Krill oil. What I'm watching right before my eyes is a composite overview of nutritional supplements that will keep you alive, And I would urge everyone. maybe you don't take vitamins. maybe you don't take nutritional supplements, but the day will come. Vitamin C and zinc- absolutely imperative for the cold DNA force. Mineral fusion: Absolutely. As you're drinking filtered water, a lot of it will become demineralized. You have to have these products. I talk a lot about the great successes InfoWars has had. I don't think anybody can deny it And it is because of listeners and viewers supporting us. When we talk about the crew at InfoWars- people behind the scenes, the researchers, the writers- they really have been the MVPs in this fight. And we look at Harrison Smith and Owen Schroer and the hard work they engage in every day- five, six, seven days a week- It's really just incredible. So for myself and the whole InfoWars crew, I thank you for your past support. I only encourage you now to realize that InfoWars cannot stay on air if you do not support us. I know you spread the word. I know you pray for us And that's wonderful. Keep doing it. But most viewers and listeners never go to InfoWarsStorecom And you never buy great products that enrich and empower your life. I know that less than 1% of our listeners actually go buy products at InfoWarsStorecom. If just 1% more of you took action and went to InfoWarsStorecom, our funding problems will be over. Please take action now. Alright, I would advise Ryan- this is my personal opinion, I'm not telling you what to do- to not join the military. The fight is here in America for the republic. I would get politically involved. I would start a news site. I would start covering local politics and you'll get sponsors immediately. and if you want to be a journalist, that's it. If you want to be a journalist, you go to college to be put at the back of the line and just be caught up in like flypaper. So I'm not telling you what to be. but if you want to speak out, you sound well spoken. I would go write up what you're going to say. go read a speech. I would lead a group locally trying to save children being targeted by the trans eugenicist and just that: young people trying to protect kids from the trans agenda. it'll explode. you'll get support and you'll be a focal point Right there. that's the way to do it. That's just one program. Anything else, Ryan? No, nothing. But if you join the military, they're going to give you like 50 shots. Our military is completely captured. our military ran the poison shot agenda. it's run by the globalists, You know, and maybe another thing I should mention is I was forced to get vaccinated by like to do. well, my job requires you to be vaccinated, And so I've gotten the vaccine, and so I want to know: is there anything I should be worried about that I could prevent in the future? The good news is: above 87 degrees, the poison prion shot dies in most cases. There's a lot of things you can do to mitigate it, but no, but I mean, what job is worth dying? Find another job. Find people that know what's going on. God bless you. I appreciate your call. Ryan Scott, in Tennessee, You're on the air. Go ahead On the TransCult. Hey, Alex Scott, here again. I talked to you last week. I got, uh, you know the video of my buddy, uh, uh, Billy Falcon that did the. Alex Jones was right. Have you seen that? yet I sent it to your team. Well, thank you. What did you send us again? Remember, last week I I called and said, Hey, my buddy from Billy Falcon that wrote a song called Alex Jones was right. And he said: Hey, hold on, I'm going to get you to my. uh, you, Mike, took my information and I'll look into it. I appreciate your call. We're taking first time callers today. Donna, in Texas, You're on the air. Go ahead, Hi, Alex. Um, I am calling first to say that with trans, when someone decides to be trans, in that moment they are sacrificing and suiciding their own soul. That's why they're suiciding all their ancestors that brought them to that point right. The trans consciousness, which is demonic, hates male and female, So it's suicides itself with its own consciousness. a remedy that can help your organization as well, It's obviously going to take all of us being a voice more fierce than the trans. We have to be more fierce, more outspoken, more threatening with our righteousness and truth to overcome it, And we're going to do it, And with the help of your organization and Alex. what I wanted to say about InfoWars and about you and just your whole international impact, is that you're like a waterfall all over the world of truth. And what I've seen for so long- because I know you've struggled financially- what can unlock a dam. what can unlock a dam and allow that waterfall to flow more energetically financially is if you consider adding on a cause outside of InfoWars to your entire mission, when you shift your consciousness over your entire organization, from aiding money to giving money, whether it's 5%, 1%. No, you're right. You're right. We should have programs where we give like 10% of the veterans or you know all sorts of stuff. No, that's definitely a great idea And I appreciate your call. All right, Justin Nicholas and Mike, final callers. and then I hand the baton to a great talk show host, a great political mind, a great patriot, Royce White. That is coming up. We're back in 60 seconds. I'm going to be each callers a couple of minutes. I love you, but we got to get to our guest host. And then in one hour, who's hosting the war room today? Owen's out of town. Who is it? Rob Dew again. Well, Rob, I watched about an hour of Rob yesterday. He knocked it out of the park. So Rob takes this very serious. He's getting really prepared. Rob Dew is coming up in 55 minutes and 10 seconds to host the war room. But first, Royce White, stay with us. Humanity is in a fight for its very life and InfoWars, for decades, has been at the very forefront of the fight for a pro-human future. We can't stay on air without your help And I want to thank you all for your past support And I want to encourage those of you that have never bought products at InfoWarsStorecom to go there and experience how amazing these products really are: Ultimate Bone Broth- finally sold out for over two years, back in stock. Real Red Pill Plus- simply amazing Nitric boosts what it does for your heart, cardiovascular critical. All these products, like Ultimate Krill Oil, Ultimate Fish Oil, SuperMelt Vitality- they're all available and in stock, ready to ship to you right now at InfoWarsStorecom. And the final 1,200 signed copies of my book The Great Reset and the War for the World- and I'm not going to sign any more after that- are exclusively available at InfoWarsStorecom as well. And the last month I got a little busy so I didn't sign the books. We didn't have them for sale. But now I signed the last books. you can get them right now Live from the InfoWarscom studios. it's Alex Jones. Well, we got Morpheus Royce White taking over here in a few minutes. We're going to skip to network break so he gets his full time in, But right now here, Alex Jones promised to get to every caller who was on the board. We could have unlimited after that. We stopped taking calls about two hours ago, but they all got on the board. so I'm going to get to everybody: Justin, Nicholas and Mike. and then Royce White takes over Justin in Tennessee. go ahead, you're on the air, Hey brother. how are you doing? Man, it all came true. The New World Order. we were vindicated. I wish we weren't. It's just an insane time. How are you doing? Not too bad brother. So I called mainly because you started out your show with pedophilia, the torture of children, Being here in Tennessee, obviously not very far from the Biltmore Mansion. And so it's funny when you had across the screen earlier Tony Podesta's artwork- one of the pictures there is actually of the Biltmore pool, which gives a very creepy and odd feeling. The first time I went through there I was like man, somebody has drowned or something in here. But one of the big things with the artwork is that one of the children, the white-haired child, looks like Anderson Cooper, who of course is a Vanderbilt, And the other Vanderbilt committed suicide. His brother did Absolutely Just hiding in plain sight. It's hiding in plain sight. What do you make of the UN officially saying: legalized pedophilia? We covered that first hour. Folks don't know. It's official. They said children should be able to have sex with adults. I mean, these people have got to be rejected. Come on, folks, It's just straight up the devil, plain and simple. The world needs God. Anything else, No, no, just thank you for all you do, brother. Thank you Thanks for holding to say that. Great points. All right, Mike, in Alaska, You're on the air. In my opinion, Robert F Kennedy has more integrity in his fingernail of his left pinky finger than Donald J Trump has in his whole body, And that's why I'll be voting for him. I'll change my affiliation to Democrat just to vote for him in the primaries, because they've been using that tactic. But thus Democrats will switch in the primaries and vote for whomever in the Republican primaries to see that they get their candidate, you know, the most desirable one- in the general election. I think that we should do that the same. I think that people in the freedom movement ought to, you know, Oh, I agree, I want him to be the nominee above Joe. Joe Biden has announced he will And he is running again. He's going to announce next week, So we'll get Royce White's take on that in a minute. But we've got to have anybody but Obama. OK, anybody but Obama. And if that means I have to switch from Republican to Democrat to vote in the Democratic primaries, I'm going to do it because I don't want to see a Biden up there again. I would rather see. you know Robert F Kennedy Jr And I think he's like I said, I think he has a lot more integrity, I think. Well, there hasn't been a real Democrat since they killed his father and his uncle, And so it's definitely powerful. They're so scared, They're attacking him everywhere. It's an amazing, amazing time. The last real liberal in the Democratic Party- you know that- was 68. OK, and they just really haven't had that. You know the party was taken over by, you know, the communists after that And pretty much we haven't had anybody in the Democratic Party. I love how there's an invasion of the Republican Party with the populist movement, the Tea Party and Trump. He's not perfect either. We got an invasion over here with Robert F Kennedy Jr. It's very exciting. Thanks to call. All right, Last call before the great Royce White takes over. Can't wait to listen to him. Nicholas in Texas, Last caller, You're our telegunner. Yes, Hello, Can you hear me? I can Welcome. Yes, Thank you. Just quick plug. I wanted to say the whole food multivitamin. I don't see it Get a shout out a lot, But it is awesome. I've been using after my workouts and it's great. I have the X2. and then I got your great reset book And that was awesome. Wish you would have gone more in depth with the steering committees, But I'm waiting for your. Well, that was my only complaint. The book was like 500 pages. They cut like 300. So the next book is going to be like 400 pages. I'm demanding that Great, Can't wait. Can't wait to read it. So I wanted to just say real quick that I've been calling my representatives here in Texas And there's their clueless about what's going on with cattle and the MRA. So they're not doing it yet with the cattle except test. They've been doing it for four years with pigs. Right, Right, And there, there, there was a new article that came out today and it was from whole cows dot com And it says there are states that that are considering legislation, including North Dakota, Tennessee, Arizona, Idaho and Missouri, And legislation to block it. Yes, Right, Tom Ramsey, the tip of the spear on that. And we're banning transgender garbage after kids. We are fighting back, We are winning. Just if I could say real quick: any any of the employers, if y'all could please call your reps. I don't want this in my food for my kids, my family. Just please call your reps, Let them know because they're freaking clueless. No, you're right. The next big fight is not saying no to their shots, but saying no to the garbage literally being genetically engineered, not just where it's in the beef and the pigs and the poultry, but where the plants grow it themselves. Thank you so much. Incredible point. All right For the balance of the hour. Royce White, former NBA player, MMA fighter, ran for Congress at a great job. We're one of the smartest folks out there. Royce White's loaded for bear. He takes over now. Find him on Twitter at: put that back on screen: Highway underscore 30.. Royce White, Take it away. Thanks, Alex, I appreciate it. I appreciate it. I appreciate being here again. It's always a pleasure to be able to host this legendary, historic platform of InfoWars and thank you to the entire InfoWars team for all you do, And I now today have just got my own channel on InfoWars so you can mirror, or so we can mirror, and you can follow all of the Please Call Me Crazy podcast. We'll be getting those up over the next 30 days and all the content moving forward from the podcast which will air tonight on YouTube at 9 pm Central. If you're interested in that. we also premiere on Rumble at 9 pm. given that the Rumble uploads come in a timely manner, Sometimes they take 24 hours and so on and so forth. All you Rumble users I'm sure are familiar with that And we are on all the audio platforms as well. No more housekeeping. I appreciate it, Alex, And I appreciate the entire InfoWars audience. You guys are one of the most spiritually awake audiences in the world And I get constant feedback from from you all now, having launched the podcast that you either first heard me on on InfoWars or became familiar with me on InfoWars. So I appreciate you all today for the hour We're going to get right down into one of the biggest stories, I believe, in the entire world- really One of the biggest stories in the entire world that all of the liberal mainstream media establishment, mainstream media industrial complex seems to be rather quiet on given the gravity of it. But it's not a shock. And what it really shows is that, like Alex has said for many, many years, like many, many whistleblowers have said for many, many years, that our media is completely and utterly hijacked by the security state and by security agencies. And here we have a story breaking in the last 24 hours through this judiciary committee that Mike Morrell, former CIA chief. Mike Morrell was put up to this, this initiative within the intelligence community to gather support sentiment from other intelligence officers, big hitters, big name hitters- I'm going to name a few in a minute to essentially say that the entire Hunter laptop story, Hunter Biden laptop story was Russian disinformation. I mean, he admits to it right right there in the judiciary committee in the last 24 to 48 hours And all of the mainstream media establishments are completely silent on the matter. We have a few few, you know institutions that are willing to even speak about this. I mean, this is the weaponization of the media through the security state or in collaboration with the security state. And just listen to some of these names who signed this, this letter. here And again, the letter was basically forged to say: hey, this entire Hunter laptop, Hunter Biden laptop, is nothing more than Russian disinformation. We got Jim Clapper at the top of the list who signed the letter. We have Mike Hayden. We have Leon Panetta. who's going around? What do we? what do I want to call them The banking industry- luncheons with Nikki Haley to schmooze middle market, middle market conservative entrepreneurs to vote for Ron DeSantis, Essentially, that's. that's what's going on there. So we got Panetta out there shilling for the security state. He signed a letter. John Brennan signed a letter. We got Thomas Finger: He signed a letter. He was the former chair of the National Intelligence Council. We have John McAuflin, We have- I mean, I mean this goes on and on- Nick Rasmussen, former director of National Counterterrorism Center. We have Russ Travers- I mean the list goes on and on. Fifty people, Larry Pfeiffer, a bunch of these guys right, all signed the letter. And you just have to ask yourself at home- I know all you in the audience will understand, but, but this podcast reaches to our opposition just as well And you have to really ask yourself at this point: how much are you willing to tolerate in the interest of your own political affiliation or your own political ambitions or your own political prejudgments? How much are you willing to tolerate? How much freedom are you willing to give up? How big are you willing to let the government get the federal government? How big are you willing to let the security state get? How big are you willing to let security agent intelligence agencies get? I mean all of you Democrats out there, all of you Democrats who claim to love Kennedy, who claim to to be champions of civil rights and human rights and women's rights and even LGBTQ rights or any other form of human humanitarian efforts. All of you people who claim to love Martin Luther King and and the need to defeat Republicans or defeat Donald Trump in the interest of democracy, Does this sound like democracy to you? Does this sound like democracy? I mean, you know the black community maybe. I'm just not shocked by these things because the black community has long understood the predatory nature of the security state and the intelligence communities: FBI, CIA, NSA, COINTELPRO, MKULTRA, Operation Mockingbird. The list goes on and on and on. We know it. We know it. These are the things that they all said made Alex Jones crazy. These are the things that, when Alex Jones first started talking about him and coming to the surface of readily common knowledge around the country, these are the things that they used to say that he was a conspiracy theorist. These are genuine conspiracies. Here it is A man that the ex-chief of the CIA, acting director of the CIA, testified before the Judiciary Committee and said: I was the one who helped put together the intelligence collaboration of other officers to lie about the origins of the Hunter Biden laptop story Affected the outcome of the election. We're going to throw Donald Trump in jail for hush money. That's the plan anyway. I don't think it'll work. The Supreme Court seems to be pretty conservative these days, So I anticipate it'll make its way to the Supreme Court and it'll fall on deaf ears when it gets there. But we'll see. It's not beyond me that Supreme Court justices could be influenced or compromised. It's not beyond me at all that that could be the case. In fact, we should all be worried, And even more so we should watch out for Supreme Court justices to start to be assassinated in the future, because when that happens, you know that they're going for it. But this is just as much. I mean, this is about as going forward as you can possibly get. They affected the outcome of an election. It was the Biden campaign that put the word in with Mike Morrell to get these other guys to sign this letter, And not only were they willing to disguise or try and suppress information that would alter the outcome of the election. the more important piece in the story, because that shouldn't surprise us, I mean anybody who thinks our elections are secure, anybody who even wants to talk about voting machines, for that matter, in my opinion, all very prominent, all a problem, all something we have to confront and get ahead of. But ultimately, I mean they're hijacking our elections right out in the open. This isn't even a secret, whether it be this or whether it be them raising $240 million through the bourgeois, yuppie, neoliberal, neocon, posh, corporate community, Right, I mean, they raised $240 million for a runoff against, you know, Hershel Walker. I mean, how do you Democrats square it? How do you Democrats square that? you're anti-elite and anti-corporate when you got to raise $240 million for a single Senate race in the runoff? Who has that kind of money? You think a couple of dollars here and there are coming from from you know Democrats, Democrat voters all across the country? Absolutely not, Absolutely not Your Facebook, your, your, your Silicon Valley and a bunch of other big, big corporations all around the country, and upper middle class, bourgeois elites are the people who they go to and they tap on to fund these, these campaigns. So that's the first way that our elections are jacked. But apparently, apparently, a president, a sitting president or a presidential candidate, can go to the CIA and go to the, can call upon the CIA to to weaponize. weaponize the CIA, weaponize the federal government, the security state, to suppress information, damaging information on their campaign. I mean this is criminal. This is this. is that that's criminal? Paying a hooker, paying a whore, hush money is not criminal. I mean, come on, give me a break. If. if we want to make that the, the, if we want to make that the parameter of, of, of, of criminal, there won't be enough space in the jails. Let's just be honest: What a presidential candidate conspiring with former CIA operatives to suppress essential information that could affect the outcome of an election. that my friends is criminal. That my friends is beyond the threshold of criminal. that we should accept And and and. what's worse than them suppressing information that could affect that, that affected the outcome of the election? What's worse than that is who they were willing to throw it on. And again, I'm not a Russian apologist. I think Alexander Dugin's a very brilliant guy. I have a, a, a, a very healthy respect for many Russian philosophers and writers. Sholts, Nitzen, Leo Tolstoy is one of the, maybe the greatest writer of all time. So I have a healthy respect for Russian, Russian culture, Russian literature, as I think many people do, but I'm not a Russian apologist. And later on in the show I want to get into this entire global landscape and where I think we are and what I think we, as Americans, should look to or look to do to prepare ourselves for the, the double cross and triple cross that that's now going to start to rear it's it's ugly head. But they were willing to throw this on the Russians in a heartbeat. And not only is that relevant to the, the ongoing conflict there between Ukraine and Russia, which is really us and Russia, Not only is it relevant to that. it's relevant to the, the, the default behavior of the security state itself and the intelligence community. In what world is it, in what world is it not treason? In what world is it not a a, a an immediate endangerment of of the American citizen, of American citizenship and of the overall integrity of this nation, to provoke our enemies, potential enemies, enemies by their own standard, by their, by their description, to provoke our enemies by throwing disinformation, allegations on them when they're not really true. I mean, when you get down to that level, we we have to start to ask ourselves: what's going on here, What, what? what are we looking at? What are we dealing with here? What are we willing to put up with the CIA storing a Hunter Biden laptop story on the Russians Looks like they had it out for the Russians for a long time. Everybody knows they've had it out for the Russians for a long time. This whole, this whole fight between the West and Russia goes all the way back to Napoleon. It goes all the way back to, you know, the, the Prussian empire, and, and and the entire European monarchies there that Russia had won. This goes back to Nicholas, the last Tsar of. I mean, this game runs deep. The great game runs deep, right, And that's the, that's the historical and traditional Norman glacier for the, the, the tension between the Russian empire and the British empire. This, this runs deep, right, But but ultimately America's been pulled into it, and now we're being used, and now our money's being used, and, and, and now our military might is being used. And I think it's interesting when you go listen to a guy like Bustamante- Andrew Bustamante, who you know he says a lot and nothing all at the same time. He's great. He's great in doing it, Uh, and you and you gotta wonder why he's allowed to go out there and speak the way he is right now. What I always say is: anybody who ever worked for the CIA never stops working for the CIA. You never stopped working for the agency. So you gotta, you gotta- take anything he says with a grain of salt, But I do think it's interesting to hear his his pretty forthright admittance on what America's actually doing there in, in, in Ukraine. Uh, and it's it, it. it shows us that we're in a jump ball. It shows us that we don't know who to trust. And when you don't know who to trust, instead of trying to pinpoint malice, instead of trying to pinpoint deceit, instead of trying to to to find a smoking gun, the best thing to do is to get your back in a corner, put yourself in a corner so that you can prepare yourself for whatever threats come. That's what we need to do right now in America. That's what America First is trying to solve. That's what the idea of America First is trying to address. We've created a landscape and don't get me wrong, We were involved. We, we, we put it, we had a hand in it, a big hand in it. People like this. this isn't the first time the security has been involved with the suppression of information or the tampering of elections or or any other, uh, corrupt shadow practice. We all know that. So we've been involved in the overall standing of America and in in this in the world, on the world stage. we were involved. we're culpable, Uh, but now it's gotten to a point where it's so, it's so cluttered, It's so convoluted, There's so many layers of of corruption and deceit- It's hard for us to really know who we're fighting against. Maybe we should just stop fighting for a moment. Maybe we should stop fighting and come home and prepare ourselves for a big fight that we know is coming, And we know there's a big fight coming with China, And we're going to talk more about this three, this, this four player jump ball throughout the hour. But that is the four player jump ball: the free people of America who represent, who are the bastion of freedom for free people all around the world. And then there's the party of Davos and the European monarchies and the globalists. And then you got Russia and China, and, yeah, you got the Saudis, you know and, and, uh, you know the, the Iranians, right, You got the mullahs and the Persians, and who knows where they're going to fall. They're anti-Muslims to boot. They're willing to make a deal, They're willing to cut a deal. All of this sympathy that the CCP is now fostering around the world is based on an anti-crown resent. It's all based on- you know, I go back to this often- cause you, you, you have to understand what was being. how do you think China gets Russia to to play ball? How do you think China now goes to four, you know, to broker the peace or broker a deal between the Saudis and the Iranians? What do they all have in common? They were all formally colonized by great Britain, by the crown. Uh, they were all. or, in Russia's case, they were an enemy of the crown. And so China now is going to walk from nation to nation to nation with the sales pitch: You can't trust these Anglo Saxons, You can't trust these white people, You can't trust these British or Europeans. They're war mongers, They're racist, They're you know, so on and so forth. And I don't even agree with the categorization, I don't agree with the generalization. I agree that that that the European monarchies and colonialism is responsible for a lot of great atrocity in history, And and a lot, some of it was due to race. If you dig deep enough, it's social Darwinism, and Darwinism really, Um. but it doesn't matter what we, what we really believe in terms of their sales pitch to. the question is: what do the people who they're trying to get, uh, trying to create alliances with believe, And they all seem to believe it. They all seem to be bought into it And- and really, deep down, they're not bought into it. The, the, the Saudis and the Iranians and the Russians. and you pick up, you pick a group. They don't care about the historical oppression that came from the crown. All they're trying to do is look out for their position in the next iteration of world order. They're all jockeying for position. They're all fighting for position. That's what we're looking at. We're not looking at some altruism. I'll see you back on the other side. We'll get back into the four-player jump ball and much more on your host, Royce White and the belly of the beasts hosting info wars. Hydrofluorosilicic acid is the third most deadly acid on earth And they've got our children drinking that. this is a psychotic death cult period case closed out to get you and your family. We sell the Alexa pure breeze made by the my patron supply ready hour group. It's been around about 15 years. We came the biggest company. in the last six They went out, hired engineers, reverse engineered the fancy best water filter system out there that sells for twice as much. Best water filter system out there that sells for twice the price And they made it as good in all the studies. It reduces things to non-detectable levels, thousands of chemicals, but you can go pay two or three times. There's four or five other filters out there that are just as good. We sell the very best, highest grade water filtration system for half the price of leading competitor And the media says we're bad and a cult for telling you you should filter your water. You should also filter your shower water. That's another way you absorb this crap, but I'm done talking about that. The point is you get the filters at them for storecom. They're discounted right now. Finally back in stock. Ladies and gentlemen, this book, the great reset in the world for the world- is a historic book that documents the globals and, their own words, plan for our future. That is a hellish future. Now you'll be always- while they still allow books- I guess they're starting to ban them- Be able to get an unsigned copy of the great reset in the world for the world at bookstores, Amazon or in for shortcom. but you will never be able to get another signed copy of the book after the signed copies we got run out And there's about a thousand left of them right now. So get your copy of the great reset and the war for the world, a signed copy, and in for shortcom- And there is a markup there because this is a fundraiser to keep us on the air- So you won't just have this historic memento and this powerful book, You'll also know that you help keep in fours on the year. I'm going to thank those of you that have gotten signed copies of the book or unsigned copies, but I want to encourage all of you who haven't yet to go to info or shortcom and get a signed copy and buy a couple of unsigned copies and donate to the library or give them to the local school. This is an info war. I'm counting on you and thank you for your support. The most banned man in America, Alex Jones. I want you all to know something: Alex Jones was right. Alex is right about far more than he's wrong. Alex has been right on for over a decade. I don't care how you slice it, dice it, flip it up or rub it down. Alex Jones was right. Think about how frustrated we are. if you've been awake for a year or two. Imagine being like an Alex Jones, or those guys who've been awake for like decades. Alex Jones called this years ago, years ago. Alex Jones never bought the Russia hoax- not for a second. You are one of the great thinkers of this. You are a martyr to the first amendment. The government fears Alex Jones. That's why the globalists hate me is because I'm exposing their corporate worldwide tyranny. Turbo force is back, sold out for eight months and it's turbo force plus. We made it even stronger, The strongest long term energy you're going to find anywhere. Turbo force is back in stock at Infowarsstorecom or 888-253-3139.. It's not just wide spectrum natural herbs that time release over 10 hours Should be called 10 hour energy. It has a bunch of vitamins and minerals and a bunch of other key things and amino acids that turbo charge everything and are good for your heart, your brain, your liver, you name it. It is the super fuel. Rainforce Plus is great. Rainforce Ultra is great. They're two different nootropics. They go good with this. But this is the King Kong. This is the boss. Turbo force back in stock, discounted, Infowarsstorecom. More power, more strength, more energy. Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones. I think that the biggest question maybe in economics and politics of the coming decades will be what to do with all these useless people. I don't think we have an economic model for that. My best guess, which is just a guess, is that food will not be a problem. With that kind of technology, you will be able to produce food to feed everybody. The problem is more boredom and what to do with them, and how will they find some sense of meaning in life when they are basically meaningless, worthless. My best guess at present is a combination of drugs and computer games. Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen, to the Alex Jones Show here on InfoWars. I am your host for the hour- Royce White, and there was the anti-human, metropolitan, omnisexual globalist, Yuval Noah Harari, chief advisor to the World Economic Forum, and our Swiss Darth Vader, Klaus Schwab, who, as we all know, is one of the thought leaders of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, the great reset of many, many nations' political leaders, None more prominent, you could say, than our own illegitimate president here in the United States, Joe Biden, who can barely construct a sentence. Before the break, I was getting into the four-player jump ball, and we're going to need the best minds of free people all around the world to combat the level of deception going on here on the world stage. In our country it's pretty cut and dry. We have a problem with sellouts. We have a problem with sacred honor. We have a problem with corporatocracy, crony capitalism. We have a problem with Marxism all throughout our academic institutions and in much of our nonprofit sector. We have a problem with the security state. the intelligence community- Mike Morrell- in the last 24 to 48 hours has testified that he in fact was the architect of getting 50 former or active intelligence officers, chiefs, various national intelligence committees and groups, so on and so forth, including Brennan, including Hayden, including Panetta and all these other guys to sign a letter saying that the Hunter Biden laptop story was Russian disinformation. And we understand the problem or the tension between us and Russia. It's been going on for a long time, going all the way back to the Cold War. Look, the Cold War never ended, right, That's the reality. The Cold War quieted down, but the Cold War got even colder, you could say, and this is about as cold as it can get- where you just take a contentious presidential culture here in American politics and you throw disinformation on the Russians just for the fun of it, right, Just because who's going to look, who's going to check? No thought of what it could do, no thought of the fact that each little kernel of lies that are thrown on the Russians or any other geopolitical force, any other nation, every little kernel moves us closer to existential demise, right, Moves us closer to a potential nuclear exchange or some catastrophic kinetic war. I wonder, do people like Mike Moore, what do they think in those moments when they go? you know what? we'll throw this on the Russians, that's it. What does a Joe Biden think? Joe Biden doesn't think much of anything these days. I don't believe. but the people around him, you know. What does a Jen Psaki believe? right? What's the girl's name? Jean-Pierre? I forget what her name is, the black bourgeoisie sellout who was the first LGBTQ woman to be the Speaker of the House. I think she is sellout of the year, in my opinion. What do these people think when they fix their mouth, or they fix their pen, or they fix their keyboard or whatever it is that they write these communications? What do they think? what are those moments like when they get ready to throw disinformation onto another nuclear superpower? They think it's all about me. it's just pure ego, pure selfish, pure narcissistic vanity and pride and really corruption and evil. I mean that's pretty. that's just outright evil and it's common practice, right? And I know Mike Morrell is probably sitting there thinking, why is everybody looking at me? like this is some big deal. this is what the CIA always does. haven't you ever heard Alex Jones? right, and you know I put an Alex Jones episode up. I'm not sure if any of you have seen it. it's still on Rumble. if we could pull that interview up on the screen here there in the production room, just so people can see what the episode looks like. it's on Rumble, but YouTube pulled it down right away. couldn't understand it. I text Alex right away after and said: look, I got to get a channel on Bandot Video because obviously you know anybody new who comes into the YouTube arena or you know into the big tech arena who's trying to get information out there- probably not gonna be, you know, able to move very far without some unforeseeable, you know help along the way. And Alex Jones was our most viewed episode to date and it was removed. and it said cyber bullying and harassment and this is what the security state is playing at. this is what they're doing. you know they'll use, you know- a school shooting. they'll use. race. they'll use sex, they'll use whatever they need to to actualize and execute their agendas. So we know what's going on here in our country. that's the skinny of it. that's what's going on here in our country. we're just as corrupt as the day is long, right down to the right, down to the root, but it's mostly based on a lot of independent, independent sellouts At the highest level, though at the highest level, it is tied into a much grander global political scheme, and this was- this was the main impulse for me to run for Congress, because, like it or not, we're gonna need some people in elected offices to fight these people, to fight this corruption. if not, you can kiss your freedom goodbye. you can kiss this nation goodbye. you can kiss the ability to pray in public- goodbye. you can kiss the ability not to have to be drafted into a war, to be sent to some killing field. that's pretty much all for theater. as CIA a former spy, CIA spy, Andrew Bustamante, says, his theory of the case was that the American involvement in Ukraine, for the most part aside from ideological promises that were made between America and Ukraine's leadership as a part of this European progressive, you know, world initiative, aside from that, the Americans are we, we the Americans, not us Americans. but certain Americans are perpetuating this conflict in order to display their military capacity. or, even more recently, in an interview with him and Sean Ryan, he said that this is a way for us to practice transporting practice, logistical practice, our logistics in a potential and future or inevitable war with China. that's what we're doing there in the Ukraine. we're practicing logistics, we're practicing being able to get our equipment to a part of the world that's much, much further than the Middle East and where we've been over the last 20 years and had that battle tested. you know, we were battle tested in that part of the world in terms of in terms of transportation and logistics and all these other things. Now we're starting to fight in a part of the world that's a bit further and we need practice. I mean, imagine that. imagine that being true. Imagine we actually are strategically deciding to perpetuate a war with another nuclear superpower so that we could practice logistical strategy, so that we could practice our logistical workups, or whatever the case may be. Imagine that's really true. Again, Andrew Bustamante, former CIA, nobody ever stops working for the agency, in my opinion, and certainly not guys like him. If we are doing that, then the mainstream media- same mainstream media that, it would appear, is 100% in collaboration- to suppress this judiciary testimony- that the CIA has suppressed the Hunter Biden laptop story in the interest of Joe Biden's candidacy in the last election. The same type of collaboration is happening with the news or the coverage about the war in Ukraine. It's about democracy. It's about democracy. We're trying to protect democracy in the Ukraine. The Ukraine was never a democracy. What are we talking about? The Ukraine has never been a democracy. Give me a break Now. are the Ukrainian people putting up a valiant fight against the Russians? Absolutely, in my opinion. Yeah, they're putting up a valiant fight. They should be, they should. you know. we should all acknowledge the valor and courage of the Ukrainian people, many of the Ukrainian people. But we have the same problem here in America. We have the same problem with our own military and our own war conflicts and our own inability to see beyond the valor and sacrifice of our servicemen and women and the elitist schemes that are being perpetuated through that sacrifice. We have that problem all throughout this country as well. So you have to be able to separate the two. Are there many brave Ukrainian people that are fighting back against Russia? Yeah, yeah. Is their fight legitimate? Is it without corruption? No, no. Those two things should be able to be separated with great ease. The entire effort is corrupt, on face value. And for any of you who don't really understand the history here, I know, in this technocratic tick-tock-ification of our society, it would seem it's kind of hard for people to keep up with real history because, God forbid, your libraries and the schools are closing and they're moving everything to digital iPad learning, in which they try and pretend that they wouldn't be able to delete real history from the curriculum, But we obviously see that they do. Or maybe you boomers were having so much fun with the pill and drugs and whatever else you were getting into, getting your wallet fattened up through the corrupt stock market and the corrupt monetary policy of the Federal Reserve. Maybe you jerk-offs were just so busy that you never actually took the time to learn the real history, And it doesn't really matter. You didn't pass it on down or whatever the case may be. But there seems to be a general, general, obvious lack of real history And in this case it's pretty strange that nobody on CNN, nobody in MSNBC, nobody even on Fox News, nobody will just say that Kyiv used to be the capital of Russia. Kyiv, where all of the Ukrainian rally cry is right: The capital of Ukraine was the capital of the Russian Empire from ancient times. Okay, So I mean you could go through this history where this country or this country or that country or that country became an independent, sovereign nation after the post-World War II democratic liberal order, or the Cold War, or the non-acts of aggression war, the Atlantic Charter or Bretton Woods Conference, or so on and so forth. I mean you can go right on down the line, But the reality is, is Ukraine, is Russia And, by many standards, Taiwan is China. Okay, Then let's just cut through the noise Now. if the Taiwanese people or the Ukrainians would actually like to fight for democracy and freedom because they hold America's foundational values sacred and they believe in them, that's something that we should consider. Maybe we do need to fight for people around the world who want to be free and not fall under the thumb of the tyrannical CCP regime. I would be all for that. As a sitting president, I would be all for that. If you don't want to come under the thumb of this international, totalitarian, anti-God regime known as the CCP, hey, we'll help you, We'll fight for you. You got to be willing to fight for yourselves as well. But we also have to clarify our own will around such endeavors and such a call to moral and ethical high ground. We'd have to clarify our own will And we haven't done that. We are still marred by the stains of allowing our federal government and our political elites and our corporate elites to use America, the brand of America, the name of America, the weight of America, the financial power of America, the innovation of America, the innovation of American citizenship itself. Use that to march around the world and steal people's shit. It's the reality. That's what's going on here. And who did we do it? at the behest of Who were we working? on behalf of The crown? It's very clear. We were working on behalf of the crown. After World War II, we took on the British foreign policy. And what was the British foreign policy at the time? What was Alfred John Mackinder's foreign policy? prevailing foreign policy at the time? The geographical pivot of history. the geographical pivot of history, the world island theory and the heartland. He who controls Eastern Europe controls the heartland. He who controls the heartland controls the world island. And he who controls the world island effectively controls the world. Psyop, Psyop of the highest order. It has some validity to it. Yeah, Yeah, That that part of Europe right there, Eastern Europe, includes the Ukraine and the heartland and connects the world island of the Afro-Eurasia world island. Yeah, there's validity. The person who can dominate and control that and use that as a springboard could, could potentially use it as a springboard for world domination. But it's only 50 percent of the resources in the world. Alfred John Mackinder and the geographical pivot of history, lays that out very clear. He said this: He who can control the Eurasian world island would effectively control 50 percent of the world's resources- 50.. I don't know how good everybody's math is out there. I know you Democrats like to skip math class for gender studies or whatever else you guys are into these days in the scholastic. you know scholastics But Would be about half Half of the world's resources. the other half are here in the Americas, Right, So how we got pulled into this huge ongoing conflict to ensure that Russia would never move west and and collaborate with the Western continental power like Germany to control the Eastern Europe, or that Russia doesn't conquer Eastern Europe or conquer all of Europe, or that a Sino-Japanese empire doesn't conquer Russia and by way of Eastern Europe, in the heartland. how we got pulled into this in the first place is a question for the ages. I mean, it really is a question for the ages. And when you get, when you dig down deep enough to understand the academic and prevailing, the prevailing academic tradition that goes into much of this, this geopolitical foreign policy, you start to realize that it couldn't happen by accident. We didn't get pulled in by accident. Our elites here in America, our political elites, they fancy themselves British, They fancy themselves European, They fancy themselves Atlanticists. You know they say that in Turkey. you know the heart of Turkey- you know it's the eye of Turkey- yearns for Vienna, or the heart of Turkey yearns for Vienna. It's a saying about the people in Turkey, or some people in Turkey, wanting to be European. But the same thing is true of us here in America. We want to be European. so bad, We're not European. We're not an Atlanticist power, We're a Pacific power. That's the reality. We are a Pacific power, We're not an Atlanticist. This whole Atlanticist Atlantic charter thing was a scam from the beginning And I don't know how to make people understand how prevalent this is still today When you see the CIA going disinformation on the Russians. you know willy nilly. you're looking at the remnants of foreign policy that we adopted from the crown. where we're in this war? Why are we at war with Russia? What's the war between us and Russia? We don't have any interests. We don't have any interests that are at odds with the Russians, other than Europe. And let's be quite honest, we say that we're there to make sure that the Russians don't don't strip Europe of its ability to be free and democratic. but where in Europe is it free and democratic? Great Britain isn't a democracy. Cut the BS. Great Britain is not a democracy. Okay, the monarch in Great Britain has the autonomy at any time to tell the Parliament to go take a hike. It's right there. it's right there in the fine print. None of you read it. we all obsess about King Charles and Meghan Merkle or Angela Merkel, whatever name is, and Harry, and you know they're having a wedding or they're having a baby, or you know. I can't tell you how many of these weird neoliberal, neocon, posh, yuppie white liberals are so infatuated with the royal family. We're not European, We're not British and they're not a democracy. The French, yeah, you know their democracy. you could say: wouldn't trust them, can't trust them. Macron, he comes out last week and says we'd be okay with China being we. we'd be, oh, we're okay with a more multi-polar economic hegemony after America's fronted the, the money in the military security for NATO for the last 60 years, okay. and if it wasn't, for America, the French, the, the British and everybody else there in Europe would fall. would could potentially fall under the thumb of Russia, but would they even be falling under? I mean, this is what we have to understand: understand how the crown works, understand how the crown were. go back to the Napoleonic Wars. they fund both sides of the war and they wait to see who's gonna, who has the advantage. they wait to see who they can, who they can latch on to and then co-op to ensure their survival in their elite aristocratic position. and it went from being aristocratic monarchs to aristocratic nation-states that are still run and led by monarchs. we're all carrying water: the American people, the American citizens, American tax money. we're carrying water for a European scam, and it is a scam. this whole English Commonwealth and even the, the whole, the whole, you know, brand of whiteness, Oh, white people. and then now, on the conservative side, you'll get this sympathy for Europe and in the crown, based on whiteness. but there is no whiteness there. that white is an American invention. it's an American invention that came from a Darwin academic tradition. there's, there is no white. what is white? what is black? okay, if you want to go down to the bottom of it- Mongoloid, Negroid, Caucasoid- there's three master races of it. that's Darwin. yeah, you're your Darwinist. you don't believe in God. number one, number two, even if you want to go down to that, that level of it. and I would say, yeah, okay, there's three master race. okay, fine, what does that do with Europe? you know how different the people are in Germany than the people from France, from the to the people, from Italy to the people from. what is whiteness? why are we defending whiteness? this is the scam, this is the, the weaving of a scam that is being waged upon the psychology of a very fragile and stupid three people of the world to perpetuate crimes, to perpetuate corruption, to perpetuate globalism. and they're gonna justify it. and now I mean: look, if Great Britain doesn't want to fall under the, the control of Russia, why would they give their entire, why would they let London's entire surveillance system be, you know, manufactured and installed by the CCP. They're getting played and they're getting desperate because they know they're losing. But they're such cucks they can't even come to the realization that they would lose, that they could potentially lose. So now they've got to try and weasel their way out of it. And in order to weasel their way out of it, they don't want to confront China head on. They don't want to confront the CCP head on. The human rights violation to the CCP, completely fine, no problem. no problem. They don't threaten democracy at all. There's no democracy or freedom for the Uyghurs East Turkestan. no freedom for them. No freedom for Tibet, right? Remember the whole Free Tibet movement? Gone done. Tibet's just a natural part of China. Tibet is just a natural, natural territory of China, But the Ukraine isn't a natural territory of Russia. I mean- I apologize, I have to go out on a limb and talk about it from this vantage point, because I know it sounds pro-Russian and it's not. It's to say, we've got to get clear: if there's a fight to come with Russia, it's not to come anymore. We're in it. But if there's an even bigger fight or a more continued or long-standing fight to come with Russia, we need to be clear about who our allies are. If there's a fight to come with China, we need to be clear about who our allies are, And right now our allies don't live there in Europe. They never have. They were never our allies. They pretended to be our allies. They used us, They leached onto us, They latched onto us and used the innovation and uniqueness and all of the things that made America powerful in the beginning, which wasn't some Atlanticist affectation. That's not what it was. What it was was a land of people who believed in fundamental freedom, who believed they had rights granted to them by an alien, inalienable rights granted to them by a creator. That's what made America strong. That's the foundation of our power, Not some posh, yuppie, neoliberal, neocon, metropolitan omnisexualism. Stay with us to the other side of the break. I want to dig more into the Crown. next. I talk a lot about the great successes InfoWars has had. I don't think anybody can deny it, And it is because of listeners and viewers supporting us. When we talk about the crew at InfoWars, people behind the scenes, the researchers, the writers, they really have been the MVPs in this fight. And when you look at Harrison Smith and Owen Schroer and the hard work they engage in every day- five, six, seven days a week. it's really just incredible. It's really just incredible. So for myself and the whole InfoWars crew, I thank you for your past support. I only encourage you now to realize that InfoWars cannot stay on air if you do not support us. I know you spread the word, I know you pray for us and that's wonderful. keep doing it. But most viewers and listeners never go to InfoWarsStorecom and you never buy great products that enrich and empower your life while at the same time keeping us on air. I know that less than 1% of our listeners actually go buy products at InfoWarsStorecom. If just 1% more of you took action and went to InfoWarsStorecom, our funding problems will be over. Please take action now. This is their big move. So yeah, you say: why doesn't Biden address the disasters in the United States? He doesn't care. That's not his job. He's not the president of the United States, He's a puppet operating for the globalists. Appetites of the autocrat cannot be appeased. They must be opposed. Autocrats only understand one word: no, no, no, Exactly. And that's why we say no to your vaccines. We say no to you shutting down our businesses. We say no to you taking our firearms. We say no to you censoring our free speech. We say no to you selling us out to the World Health Organization. We say no to you getting us into World War III. You're right. We stand against autocrats like you, Joe Biden, And we say no. And we say no to your war.Infowars, Tomorrow's news. today, Society is collapsing around us. every form of crime and degeneracy is exploding off the charts, not just in the United States. worldwide, We are a fallen civilization and it's only going to get worse. Yesterday, as the mass shooting unfolded in Tennessee at a school where darling little children and others were killed, I did not comment on the broadcast other than saying that the shooting had happened because I wanted to give it time to see what unfolded. but Scott, the producer, walked in right when it happened and he said: how much money you want to bet? This is a transgender person and that's because now, about 80% of the time, the school shooters are transgender and the media tries to cover it up. but we've got a bunch of the examples here of this happening and they already take quasi autistic people or mentally ill people and they hop them up on a bunch of wild hormones and then they wonder why they have the highest rates of suicide, one of the highest rates of crime out there. I don't hate transgender people. There are a lot of people that are transgender that are really nice, like Blair White, who's a very sweet, smart, good person, and I think she believes she's a woman and acts like a woman and if she wants to be a woman, she can be a woman. She doesn't want to go compete with women in sports, any of that stuff, but crazed men beating women in sports and women all hopped up on men's hormones now committing mass shootings. I mean, women never commit mass shootings. In fact, it's never been heard of and now it's happening and these people are incredibly lost and it's really a demonic spirit where they feel led to go kill innocent little children. And that's what happened yesterday and it's just hard to believe this stuff actually happens. It's why I've doubted some of these things before. It's just hard to believe people do it, but you know what They really do. do it, ladies and gentlemen, and our hearts and prayers go out to the parents of so many others. I've got four children, some five and a half, and I just could not imagine what type of twisted, sick brain would want to go and kill little elementary school students. But you notice, it's men with guns taking out the crazed woman with the gun and that's why we have guns to protect ourselves. and I tell you, when I go to family school events and things and visit, you know, schools where family have children doing performing arts. I don't feel bad. when I see police there armed, I feel good. They've never had a concealed carry holder go out and do anything like this. Concealed carry holders have the lowest crime rate of any group in the US, just like the police, and these police did a great job while they're being fired at, They didn't play games. They went there and they killed her while she was shooting at them. So that's what police are supposed to do right there, not like Yuvaldi, where they sat there for 76 minutes putting hand sanitizer on in the hallways. People thought Yuvaldi didn't happen. No, Yuvaldi happened, folks. But people find it hard to believe that police would stand down for 76 minutes. That's even more unbelievable than them staging it. I mean, it's just the incompetence and the bureaucracy of some of these police departments. It's like with the tower shooter back in the 60s. Cops didn't wait, They charged up those stairs and they killed that guy while he shot at him. So the answer is: guns in school, especially Christian schools, are targets. Tucker Carlson predicted it on last Friday show- or was it Thursday show- where he said the transgenders are arming up and are probably going to start mass shooting people. And now they're announcing International Day of Rage on April 1st, where they're promising to have a violent uprising And the left, by the way, has been defending the attacker. The fight against the New World Order is now the top story in the world. The globalists are in deep trouble, but they're striking back with all their deep state operatives to shut down Infowars and other truth tellers like James O'Keefe, Tucker, Carlson and countless others. So please pray for us now more than ever. Spread the word about the broadcast and get great products to keep us on air and fund our operation while at the same time enriching your life. Now we've got three new products available at Infowarsstorecom and a bestseller back at stock. We have the amazing Dr Jones Naturals turmeric toothpaste. that's so much more. Find out more at Infowarsstorecom. We have the ashwagandha root pills with black powder extract to accelerate your libido, stamina, testosterone, And we have pure ashwagandha gummies at Infowarsstorecom as well. These are all the highest quality products. The prebiotic is now finally back at stock. They're all there at Infowarsstorecom. So please take action now. Enrich your life, empower your body and keep us on air. Please take action now. Infowarsstorecom Crashing through the lies and disinformation. it's Alex Jones coming to you. live from the front lines of the Infowars. Ladies and gentlemen, transgenderism is a Tabistock Institute, MI6, CIA creation to launch the transhumanist movement. Because if you'll accept a man being a woman, a woman being a man, if you'll accept two men having a baby when it's two women, or a man and a woman, if you will accept that you'll accept chimeric humanoids that are made out of three or four dads or two or three moms, or a mix of other people which they're now producing and making for decades in test tubes, you'll accept the entire globalist agenda. I do not hate people that are trans. I do not think that the average person that is living like that is a mass shooter or a bad person. That said, the entire movement is a synthetic creation for depopulation and to totally confuse society and break up the family. and that's admitted. And the same leftist movement worldwide, funded by the big corporations that force feed this, are openly saying now they want to euthanize children without parental consent. So it's all about killing people. And if you can't sell killing babies out of the womb, well you just call it a transgender surgery and cut their breasts and their genitals off And then you get people caught up in this cult. caught up in this is your identity. this is why you're confused. take these hormones, do this and then, statistically, they are the most unhappy, suicide-prone people everywhere, anywhere. and we're told it's because you're not celebrating them, You're not accepting them, Why they went on this wonderful path at the public school or the system put them on, in some cases when they were two years old. now the trans cult says they know when a child's born at birth that they're trans. Well, it's not the fault of the system creating this nightmare. No, no, it's your fault for not worshipping it and rolling out a red carpet to it. So let's be clear, where I don't blame the average transgender person or say they're a bad person or judge them, the big think tanks, the intelligence agencies, the transhumanist, Julian Huxley combine is the group running this. their fingerprints are all over it, they're the authors of it, they admit they run the whole thing and it's the leading edge of the wedge to bring in transhumanists. humanoid, cyborg future that we're being told is the future and that the future isn't human by all the high priests of the globalist system. Now, that said, we're going to drill into what happened in Tennessee yesterday and the announcements all over Instagram, all over Twitter, all over Facebook, all over everywhere of saying, well, this is what you deserve. I've got the articles and pronounce right here: because you were mean to the transgenders in Tennessee's passing a law saying you can't sterilize little children. So, because there's this horrible abuse, the trans communities being weaponized by the deep state, by the Twittersphere, to now believe that violence is the answer. and you see it everywhere: them calling for the death of JK Rowling, for saying biological women are biological women and women's sports are women's sports. and a bunch of footage I didn't get to yesterday of Alex Stein being physically attacked at one of these cult events that he went to and a big activist who's very well-spoken and non-violent in New Zealand being physically attacked and barely making it out of their lives yesterday or I guess now two days ago. and if there's drag queen story time with little children being taken, we're half naked. men dressed like clowns shake their genitals at children. they're all out there with their AR-15s and they're not just there with their guns. they tell you we're going to kill you, we hope you die. So they are completely whacked out, many of them. and there's a pedophilic vein that runs through the center of the entire mess, because it's bigger than just wanting to sterilize children. it's about the spiritual energy in and around the destruction of a child's future and or a child's life. And this whole thing has a hunger to go out to Christian churches and Christian schools and murder Christians and murder children. So the trans cult is about murdering the future of a child, murdering their fertility, murdering their body parts, having giant fat men dance around naked in front of children- The giant, obscene, disgusting cult at the top with a bunch of brainwashed lemmings at the bottom, in the middle, including- and I've had members of parliament on from the UK about this a decade ago- the majority in the UK of transgender children are autistic And if you cover the drag queen times and the drag queen pedo times, like we have, you notice that the women look like that, are there bringing their children, look like they're mutants- And I'm not trying to be mean, they just all look like they're dying And their children are almost all completely And it's very sad but they're howling, they're barking at the moon, they're chirping, they're flappy-handsing- all the classic autistic stuff. There's even kids there with football helmets on. you know they're bumping their head into the ground and they're just rolling them in like here's where you're loved, here's where you're accepted. here's some fat men dressed like it and a clown, many of them convicted pedophiles. And this is just the army of evil rolling forward. So just six, seven years ago, the big thing was just give us gay marriage and that's all we want. And now they attach to gay marriage and gay men. men dressed up like clowns, sexualizing children, scantily clad and cutting little girls' breasts off, little boys' penises off. I mean, this is a real cult. but they got the bandwagon going, you see. and now it's bestiality, now it's Satanism, now it's a culture that has the bottom falling out of it. And so there's all these calls here for the International Day of Rage of the Trans People, And men that think they're women and women that think they're men, out with sandwich boards, with images of rifles, saying trans rights or else. And the main trans resistance movement came out and said: the shooter's a victim too. you made him do it. When it's a her, Nobody is coming to save us. International Day of Rage and Violence coming up April 1st, and it's an image of a trans person with an AR-15. Nobody's going to save them. Why The state isn't getting access to children to sterilize them. They're putting up a little bit of a fight. So the answer is: let's go out and get violent. Here's a breakdown. Notice a pattern: Colorado Springs shooter identifies as non-binary. Denver shooter identified as trans. The Evaldi shooter was into that too. Aberdeen shooter identifies as trans. Nashville shooter identified as trans. Confused, freaked out, whacked out. people on major, major, major hormones. And you know I've talked to a lot of medical doctors about this over the years and they make the point that you know the group that gets divorces the most often in married couples statistically is people doing hormone therapy to try to get pregnant. A 45 year old woman trying to get pregnant. they have to put them on a bunch of hormones to get them jacked up to do it and they go crazy. And I've known people that tried to get pregnant and did get pregnant. Some one person I know had twins out of it, but they barely maintain their marriage in just the six months they were trying to get pregnant because they were on all these hormones. Man, I mean, wow, I remember being like 13,, being in hardcore puberty, hit when I was about 10, actually, but really virile about 13. And man, I mean I was just vicious. I mean it came in strong, hard and it was super masculine and I was just like meaner than hell And I learned to control it over the years. but imagine giving a woman a bunch of injections of that stuff. Imagine being like an Alex Jones or those guys have been awake for like decades. Alex Jones called this years ago. years ago. Alex Jones never bought the Russia hoax- Not for a second. You are one of the great thinkers of this. You are a martyr to the First Amendment. The government fears Alex Jones. That's why the globalists hate me is because I'm exposing their corporate worldwide tyranny. I'm a huge believer in information. I watch Infowars every day and follow Alex Jones closer. You know why. He can put you ahead of the curve and he's been demonized as a conspiracy theorist. Think about how frustrated we are if you've been awake for a year or two. Imagine being like an Alex Jones or those guys who've been awake for like decades. Alex has been right on for over a decade. This is reality. It just can't be. Truth is stranger than fiction. The revolution of peaceful information is coming and when it comes time, you people are going to be brought to promise. You're lying to the public. It's disgusting. The media continues to misrepresent what I've said. He may be America's best known conspiracy theorist, Alex Jones has the largest audience in the country, bigger than any of the networks, the biggest megaphone in the country. We're going to get fired up about the real things. the things that matter Burn in hell. New World Order. Humanity is in a fight for its very life and Infowars, for decades, has been at the very forefront of the fight for a pro-human future. We can't stay on air without your help and I want to thank you all for your past support. and I want to encourage those of you that have never bought products at Infowarsstorecom to go there and experience how amazing these products really are: Ultimate Bone Broth, finally sold out for over two years, back in stock. Real Red Pill Plus- simply amazing. Nitric Boost- what it does for your heart, cardiovascular critical. All these products, like Ultimate Krill Oil, Ultimate Fish Oil, Supermell Vitality- they're all available and in stock, ready to ship to you right now on Infowarsstorecom. And the final 1,200 signed copies of my book The Great Reset and War for the World- I'm not going to sign any more after that- are exclusively available at Infowarsstorecom as well. In the last month I got a little busy so I didn't sign the books. we didn't have them for sale, but now I sign the last books and get them right now. I talk a lot about the great successes Infowars has had. I don't think anybody can deny it- and it is because of listeners and viewers supporting us. When we talk about the crew at Infowars- people behind the scenes, the researchers, the writers- they really have been the MVPs in this fight. And when you look at Harrison Smith and Owen Schroyer and the hard work they engage in every day- five, six, seven days a week- it's really just incredible. So for myself and the whole Infowars crew, I thank you for your past support. I only encourage you now to realize that Infowars cannot stay on air if you do not support us. I know you spread the word, I know you pray for us and that's wonderful. keep doing it. But most viewers and listeners never go to Infowarsstorecom and you never buy great products that enrich and empower your life while at the same time keep us on air. I know that less than 1% of our listeners actually go buy products at Infowarsstorecom. If just 1% more of you took action and went to Infowarsstorecom, our funding problems will be over. Please take action now, Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order, it's Alex Jones. There is no bigger story in the world than the transhumanist cult And only a small branch of it is the quote trans movement. but it's the leading edge of it And that's in the globalist owned admissions. We played countless clips of Harari and Klaus Schwab and all the rest of them talking about this, and as they put more and more chemicals in the food and water, as they confuse the hormonal systems of humans and animals, we're only going to see these problems intensify. So I want to be clear: the population, or victims we're all being targeted with. forget stuff that sterilizes you. How about 5G and the rest of it that gives you cancer? The fertility's plunged, the cancer rates are exploding. Society is collapsing all around us and it's being done by design in this giant pressure cooker. Now we played the clips many times. I'm not going to play them again. but the different universities rubbing their hands together. the university medical center is going. we make $40,000 cutting a girl's breast off. We make $30,000 cutting a little boy's penis off. It's our biggest growth industry. And they're convincing young children that they're another sex. they put them in a file, they put them on a fast track for destruction. and then now the numbers are exploding everywhere because there's all these alone confused people that play video games all day and are on a bunch of different psychotropic drugs, who don't have an identity because they're not outside hiking, they're not working in the fields, they're not learning things, they're not playing sports- We all know who's being typecast for this- and they take these really abused, hurt little children and they throw them in the deep fryer of the transgender cult and then they're pissed off. Hey man, it's the Christian school I went to. that's why I'm so unhappy. They didn't recognize that I was really a man and so I'm going to go in there with my transgender manifesto. and we now have the comments from Audrey Hale, this totally confused young woman who went by Aiden, all dressed up in her man's outfit and doing what she thinks men do, Why men go and they mass shoot. Never before had a woman do a mass shooting. have we Saying: this is the end of my life? this is not a joke. So basically, this post I made on here about you- this was basically a suicide note. I'm planning to die today. this is not a joke. You'll probably hear about me on the news after I die. This is my last goodbye. I love you. see you again. another life, Audrey, slash, Aiden. Audrey, they go on to say you've got so much to live for, don't kill yourself. and it just goes on from there. Audrey, you have so much more life to live. I pray God keeps you and covers you. I know, but I don't want to live. I'm so sorry. I'm not trying to upset you or get attention, I just need to die. And this person thought the way to die is to go kill little kids. I want to tell you first, because you are the most beautiful person I've ever seen and known my whole life. My family doesn't know what I'm about to do. One day this will make more sense. I've left more than enough evidence behind, but something bad is about to happen And as they hype the mass shootings, they will increase and they will get worse. because mentally ill people are now taught: you don't just become transgender, you go out and you shoot and you kill people. And now the majority of mass shooters that are technically the totally senseless type is the FBI. averages in gang shootings that are at schools then says: well, half of them are black on black or black on Hispanic or Hispanic on Hispanic. But if you take those out, that are gang shootings and you just have raw going to school, shoot a bunch of kids. this is it, And they fight to hide that. But these are the incredibly unhappy, depressed, demonically brainwashed- I mean I don't know what term we should really use to break it down- but we have a lower animal brain that deals with fighting and sex, All of the lower instincts. and people are on so many complex, hardcore drugs now And almost all these mass shooters are on these drugs and the system knows that there's inserts on the Prozac of that whole family of drugs that it causes mass murder. I wanted to show this video last Friday saying: here's the spirit of the new world order, of a young lady. It looks like she's on steroids or something totally crazed, smoking out of a vape pen, acting completely demonically, possessed. But when you see that, ladies and gentlemen, that's the face of the wavelength these people have dialed into And it's a spirit of selfishness, a spirit of hatred, It's a demonic spirit And that's what hardcore drugs does to you. And look at the tattoo on her chest of a big demon. And that, my friends, is why we have guns, So that when these whacked out devils, former humans that fell to Satan come to hurt us and come to hurt our children like a moth to flame. we can protect the children like the police officers did. Let's go ahead and roll the footage again of them taking this young, disturbed, taken over person out and understand it is good people with guns that stopped this monster before she was able to kill even more people And notice we are misgendering her because we misgender on purpose. Now the real gender: she's a woman hopped up on a bunch of hormones and drugs who fell to the dark side. Here's the video. Sounds like it's upstairs. Now our private public schools sound like submarines diving in an emergency dive with depth charges being dropped on them because the schools are now targets of the devil. The officers did their job. They charged in to save the children while the woman fired at them And I got to tell you I'm not glad that the killer's dead. I wish that they would have fallen to Satan, But there's a real sense of satisfaction knowing that she was unable to kill more people And it was the Second Amendment that stopped this monster that planned this out. reportedly, according to the police, for months. It was going to hit another school but didn't hit it because they had too much security. But this is a lesson: Locks on a door are not what protected the children, It was guns, Though Audrey Hale, aka Aiden Hale, was able to kill children. We'll talk about those children coming up. But first Tucker Carlson predicted it last Friday He was attacked for it, And now he's completely vindicated And this cult says they're going to launch massive attacks on April 1 across the world against anyone keeping them away from the truth. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a new toothpaste that my dad, a retired dentist and oral surgeon, developed: Dr Jones Natural's Tumor toothpaste. that just came into stock And I got to tell you. I got samples of this months ago and it is amazing. The way it makes your gums feel. what it does to your mouth is insane. We know turmeric is an antioxidant and anti-inflammatory and does such great things for the body. Then you add that with tea tree oil and a bunch of other essential oils, it is just dynamite. It is so good to detox and attack inflammation in your mouth. I want to challenge everybody to try the new toothpaste at mfootworkstorecom- Dr Jones Natural's Tumor toothpaste. And, while you're at it, check out the new ashwagandha line of products. We have ashwagandha with black pepper, extract your libido, your testosterone, in pill form, And we have the pure ashwagandha root gummies as well, now available at mfootworkstorecom. They're amazing products and they fund the info war. Take action now at mfootworkstorecom. I'm a huge believer in information. I watch info wars every day and follow Alex Jones closely. You know why. He can put you ahead of the curve And he's been demonized as a conspiracy theorist. Think about how frustrated we are. if you've been awake for a year or two, Imagine being like an Alex Jones or those guys who've been awake for like decades. Alex has been right on for over a decade. This is reality. It just can't be. Truth is stranger than fiction. The revolution of peaceful information is coming And when it comes time, you people are going to be brought to punish. You're lying to the public. It's disgusting. The media continues to misrepresent what I've said. He may be America's best known conspiracy theorist. Alex Jones has the largest audience in the country, bigger than any of the networks, the biggest megaphone in the country. We're going to get fired up about the real thing. the things that matter Burn in hell. New World Order. We now have three new game-changing products that are in stock at mfoolworthstorecom And one of our best selling products sold out for over a year. that's now back at stock. Our prebiotic does any introduction to such amazing things: your gut flora, your overall health. What it does is essential to read about it at mfoolworthstorecom. And now the fourth toothpaste is on my dad. Last two were big hits. This one is really special. It's turmeric concentrate with a bunch of other essential oils and so much more to take your mouth's health to the next level. We also have high quality ashwagandha root for your libido, your stamina, your testosterone, with black pepper extract to accelerate it as a pill. And we have ashwagandha root gummies as well. Very strong, very powerful. Now in stock at mfoolworthstorecom. Go there, experience these great products and others, and fund the info war. The only way we fail is not taking action. God bless you Now. please visit mfoolworthstorecom and experience these powerful products for yourself. There is a war for the future happening right now. There is a war that will control my destiny, your destiny, our children's destiny, And that war is something that we can win, but it takes dedication, It takes commitment. That's why I ask- listeners, respectively, to go to mfoolworthstorecom and buy great products that will enrich and empower your life while keeping us on air at the very same time. Infowarstorecom to get a signed or unsigned copy of my book. the great reset to war for the world. ultimate bone broth back in stock. nitric boost- the amazing CBD oil we have. That's the highest quality you're going to find anywhere at more than half off. It's all available at mfoolworthstorecom. Some of the very best products And a lot of. you have never shopped at mfoolworthstore. You've been watching for years, You've been listening for years, but you've never taken the step to go to mfoolworthstore. These are great products that really work and are amazing. Plus, they keep us on air. So again, please take action. Go to mfoolworthstorecom today And I thank you. Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the new world order, It's Alex Jones, From the front lines of the information war. It's Alex Jones. The stated goal of the mega corporations and the giant private foundations that control them is ending the human family as we know it and making us atomized, dependent corporate products that they own. They want to sell us on accepting humanoids, human animal, cross species, all this garbage everywhere that they've been developing in the dark and they're now rolling out, And the first thing to destabilize us was to break up the family, demonize the role of men, attack masculinity, attack true femininity and then bring forward the transgender cult who again are unhappy and depressed and committing suicide because they're in the jaws of this meat grinder. And then the system goes: look, you're unhappy because they're not accepting you. And the more we try to accept, the more we feed our children into this meat grinder. why, the more we've got to do, the more we've got to comply, the more we've got to jump through hoops, Because, after all, you want these people to be happy, don't you? The great society and the letters are public. You can look them up, LBJ's letters in the great society, using the N word He talked about. well, these black people are getting too uppity. use the N word. They got their own hotels, their own businesses- they're wealthy- their own doctors. I'm not for segregation, but that which doesn't kill you makes you stronger. So blacks, on average, had about the same illegitimacy rate as whites, maybe lower in some areas. They were becoming extremely wealthy. on average. They own their own clothiers, they own their own manufacturing facilities. And LBJ said: we're going to pay the black women not to have men in the house. we're going to incentivize them to have a bunch of kids. We're going to have them under our thumb And we'll have those N words voting Democrat for the next 100 years. Now, that's some mid 1960s. Sorry, he said 200 years. That's some 1960s brainwashing right there. So if you think breaking up the black family did some horrible stuff and the other families are all breaking up now too. we have the most illegitimate country in the world when it comes to single parents. not attacking hardworking single parents, I get it. Society's in trouble, But your child's three to five times more likely to end up on drugs, in prison or dead. Why would the system want that? Why would they not want fathers in the home? But because you see what you get, then the state's got to step in with full, absolute control. So this is a planned operation Now. that said, Alex Stein's coming on next hour to talk about this. He just got attacked over the weekend going to one of these events. because these are entitled, hateful people on average. that are the activists that really usually aren't even trans. Their main thing is access to children And there is a always huge pedophilic vibe in the air. Everybody's seen Hollywood movies that cast what pedophiles look like. I always describe Brian Stelter looking about as pedophiles you can get. I'm not saying he's a pedophile. I'm saying if I was going to cast somebody as a pedophile for a movie, I'd cast him, Just like they cast Christian Bale, the American Psycho. Step aside, here comes Governor Newsom, the real deal. Everybody knows what a real silver tongue psycho looks like. Everybody knows what a pedo looks like. Everybody knows these archetypes. You got instincts, you got a soul. you got guts. you got a brain. you know. And all the trans talk about violence. if you keep killing us and making us commit suicide because you don't accept us when we're like, you can do whatever you want, paint your hair however you want, have sex with whoever you want, as long as they're a consenting adult. You think I'm actually running around thinking about trans people all day or hating them? No, I'm not. I'm a live and let live guy. But in the roaring 20s in Germany they had the transgender movement that spread worldwide from there. That picked up later in the 60s by British intelligence And it is the hallmark of a society before it collapses. And the system knows this, so they've accelerated it. In the 60s and 70s they did the famous rat studies, where they would have contained cities of rats and give them all the food and all the water they wanted And within three generations, the males become trans and the females become the bosses And then, within another generation, they all just start eating each other or committing suicide And then, within about eight generations, there are no rats left. We've done whole shows on that. Look up the famous rat colony collapse studies. So they're accelerating colony collapse And that's what this is. And they've greased the skins with the chemicals and the cultural brainwashing. And we have to be smarter than rats and recognize this is being done to us and not just get sucked into hating the victims of this, but reaching out to them and explaining what's been done to them- And some are so far gone. you're not going to reach out to them, But the corporations and the insurance companies and the medical facilities and the intelligence agencies- they are the real culprits in this scenario And they know exactly what they're doing And they are playing mad scientist God. So here's what I want to announce and say: The obvious cause and effect of this is going to be another disturbed but angry, pissed off person is going to go to a drag queen story time or one of these trans rallies they have everywhere, And it's going to shoot a bunch of these people. That is the last thing that needs to happen And we need to upfront say we do not want that. People are going to want to avenge these dead kids and other Christians. Christians are being targeted, But there's a time to turn the other cheek And the trans cult minions and gremlins of the system should not be harmed. They should be arrested if they hurt children or get caught doing pedophilia or any of that. We should pass laws. They can't target children, But we do not need anybody to go attack one of these events or attack any transgender person. And let me go further. I'm not calling for violence, But if you want to know who does all this and who created all this, the history of it's on record. So I want to target those groups by exposing them and call for legal action against them: The big hospitals that push these surgeries, the Tabestock Institute, all the different leftist groups, Hollywood, Disney, that are funding it. withdraw your money from these people. And if you want to know who the enemy is, it's those engineers, the cultural engineers on the top, that are doing all this And they're the ones that are the enemy, Not when you go to one of these pathetic events and there is a bunch of zombie looking crazy people that look like they have been put in a mutation chamber, howling and screaming and running around foaming at the mouth. I mean those are people that we lost to the enemy Doesn't mean we don't protect the children from them, Doesn't mean we don't stay far back from But they are just the zombies that fell to the enemy. It is the dark, globalist alchemist of evil and their science of human destruction that is the fount, the fountain, the heart, the headwater, the progenitor, the general, the commander, the master, the king, the field marshal, the head honcho, the El Jefe that is running all this. We better identify it because the next wave is coming: Government forced suicide on children as a right. All right, we're going to come back with Tucker Carlson predicting it all. And then I got another huge story here that we haven't hit. that is just as big as this is important. It all ties together The TikTok legislation. Wait till you hear this, Ladies and gentlemen. we have a new toothpaste that my dad, a retired dentist and oral surgeon, developed- Dr Jones natural tumor toothpaste. that just came into stock And I got to tell you I got samples of this months ago and it is amazing the way it makes your gums feel. what it does to your mouth is insane. We know turmeric is an antioxidant and anti-inflammatory. It does such great things to the body. Then you add that with tea tree oil and a bunch of other essential oils, It is just dynamite. It is so good to detox and attack inflammation in your mouth. I want to challenge everybody to try the new toothpaste at mfoolworthstorecom: Dr Jones natural turmeric toothpaste. And, while you're at it, check out the new ashwagandha line of products. We have ashwagandha with black pepper extract for your libido, your testosterone, in pill form And we have the pure ashwagandha root gummies as well, Now available at mfoolworthstorecom. They're amazing products and they fund the info war. Take action now at mfoolworthstorecom. Thousands of former Nazis went to work for the United States government. A flying disc has been found and is now in the possession of the army. There is a bulletin from CBS news: President Kennedy has been shot. This is a different kind of war. The USS Liberty had just been attacked by Israeli jets and torpedo boats. The CIA could manipulate the news in the United States. They took the babies out of incubators and left the children to die on a cold bus. It was almost as if there were a plan in place. It just happened. We need to go into the Capitol. You will always have conspiracy theories. They are nothing but distractions. You guys censored Harvard educated doctors. You silenced those voices. What we want to do in Davos is push the reset button. As soon as we start exposing the great reset, the sooner these globalists start going to prison. This is their big move. So yeah, you say: why doesn't Biden address the disasters in the United States? He doesn't care. That's not his job. He's not the president of the United States, He's a puppet operating for the globalists. Appetites of the autocrat cannot be appeased. They must be opposed. And that's only to understand one word: No, no, no, Exactly. And that's why we say no to your vaccines. We say no to you shutting down our businesses. We say no to you taking our firearms. We say no to you censoring our free speech. We say no to you selling us out to the World Health Organization. We say no to you getting us into World War Three. You're right. We stand against autocrats like you, Joe Biden, and we say no. and we say no to your war. Alex has been right on toward over a decade. This is reality, It just pancakes. Truth is stranger than fiction. The revolution of peaceful information is coming And when it comes time, you people are going to be brought to promise You're lying to the public. It's disgusting. The media continues to misrepresent what I've said. He may be America's best known conspiracy theorist. Alex Jones has the largest audience in the country, bigger than any of the networks, the biggest megaphone in the country. We're going to get fired up about the real thing. the things that matter Burn in hell. New World Order Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order, it's Alex Jones. All right, We now have the main legislation that is bipartisan in Congress: Bill 686, the restrict act. that is so incredible When I saw this today and I knew they were trying to pass legislation like this in the past, but this looks like it may actually go through. It's just mind blowing. So we'll hit this more next hour. but it allows the US government to do what they say the Chinese are doing through TikTok to protect you. It allows them, with the smart meters and the 5G, to take over all your devices and basically control everything in your house and surveil and censor everything and shut off any devices they want. So this is beyond the government doing search warrants or ordering big tech to censor people. This is taking control of the devices themselves, which only AI could do, in the name of protecting us from the Chinese who are doing it with their 5G. So, oh, we're not going to let them do this to you, We're going to just take everything over Which has all been part of the plan, all these devices for decades, in all the new refrigerators and dishwashers and thermostats and smart meters and smart TVs. You can't buy anything now, basically, that doesn't already have the Senate, with all the wireless points. And then, by law, all the devices have to give their codes over to the US government before they're even allowed to be manufactured, which, of course, will allow all the hackers to then get access as well. I mean, it's take one problem and make it a thousand times worse, and then take that problem, make it a thousand times worse. It's just a circular firing squad. Tucker Carlson did a 10-minute report on it last night. It was excellent And we told you this was all coming. But it dovetails with the other legislation set to pass the Senate. that's good that Ted Cruz authored. that says companies selling anything smart tech, meaning it has microphones, cameras or reports back to them, have to disclose to you on the package they're doing it and have to have codes and ways for you to disable it and shut it off. Looks like putting on a package of cigarettes doesn't give you lung cancer. I mean, at least it's a start. So they got that legislation to stop this stuff or at least inform you what's going on. And then they got other legislation that like: oh, those Chinese man, they're really bad, spying on you, So we'll just take over everything to make sure you're safe. Oh, criminals might break in your house someday, So we're going to put five armed guards in your house and make you a prisoner. You're going to work for them now. I mean, it's so fantastical and it just shows there is no bridle on what these people do now. It is just. this alone is bigger news than the shooting. The shooting is terrible. The transgender story is integral to the whole new world or takeover. It's all very important, But this tells you where the future is going- And we knew it a long time ago. We talked about it- where there's all these devices in your house controlling your thermostat, controlling you, watching everything you do, carbon taxes reporting back on you, the home assistants watching and listening to you, including a little robot vacuum cleaner. They're not selling you that vacuum cleaner at cost because they like you. They're selling it to you because the data they sell off of it is going to make them 10 times what the purchase of the vacuum cleaner made Like. the big banks are giving free hand scanners and free software to all the different stores and different outlets, not because they love you, but because they want to implement this system. So this is the big rollout and it's beyond amazing. All I can say is: man, this is going to create hell on earth. So if you think they're bad censoring now, you think the congressional hearings about all the censorship and government ordered censorship is bad and the surveillance and the control is illegal, which it is. this is orders of magnitude worse and is so ridiculous. what's in the bill? I mean? it says all this in the bill: Full access to everything in your house, no warrant government systems hardwired in total control. That's what I said a few days ago. This isn't about: oh, let's ban TikTok because they spy on us and jump in your devices. It's that the Chinese are competing with what the globalists are doing. I say: ban it all. But let's get back to Tucker Carlson. Here's Tucker Carlson being criticized last week, on March 24th, all over Rolling Stone, you name it, This one's LGBTQ nation. Tucker Carlson is afraid gun-toting trans people will start political violence. And then a few days later, three days later, his prophecy comes true. So here's Tucker from Friday. and then it happens on Monday. Here's part of the report. So you can imagine our surprise The other day. we're driving through Cambridge in the old hybrid Subaru, adjusting our surgical masks to cover both nose and mouth and listening, needless to say, to National Public Radio, the voice of menopausal liberalism. And as we're listening, we hear this. We're going to play it for you and see if you can understand our total shock. Mass shootings targeting LGBTQ spaces and a rise in anti-trans rhetoric have inspired some queer people to take up arms. New Hampshire's public radio Todd Bookman joined a monthly gathering of a gun group that sees firearms as key to their own self-defense And, as you might imagine, this story does include the sound of gunfire. On a recent Sunday morning, the parking lot of Patuckaway State Park in southeastern New Hampshire is filling up with hikers. There's also a different crew packing up warm clothes and weapons. Thank you all for coming to. Rainbow Reload. Your anti-trans rhetoric makes the trans community carry guns. Rainbow Reload. They're packing heat. They'll be appendix carrying in more ways than one. Watch out, Wait a second. we thought This is NPR, National Public Radio- suddenly telling you that actually guns are good, They're valuable tools of self-defense. really against you. The Biden administration hired a kid to oversee nuclear waste disposal whose only qualification was his sexual fetishes. So no, there's not genocide going on. There's some weird affirmative action program going on. But if you listen to NPR, you wouldn't know that. And that kind of talk might scare the heck out of you. And if they encourage you to go get a gun and arm yourself because Nazis are taking over Vermont, you might do it Again. we're as for guns, as you could possibly be, But this seems like an incitement. This seems like an incitement, and it's everywhere. Oh, the LGBTQ XYZ is under attack. Oh, they're mass shooting us. None of it's true. Well, let's just go out and kill some little kids in an elementary school, That'll fix it. And then you look at the last few shootings at LBGT XYZ events and it was transgender people- I showed you the articles earlier- who were mad at their boyfriend or girlfriend or something, And they're just whacked out on psychotropics and Xanax and hormones. And you look at them. you know green hair all wild out And you're like this is what you do to people, This is what you offer, This is your wonderful new religion for us to all bow down to. And you want our guns. And I've talked to some of the big gun shops here in town that I visit, like the local shooting ranges, and they tell me the majority of their customers now are liberals, since Trump preparing for civil war. So we can't have guns to protect ourselves in our house, but you're going to have your gun to fight us because we're Nazis, right? And then your grand poobah, your omnibudsman, your leader, your fuhrer, is George Soros, who actually worked for the Nazis and said it was the best time of his life and invigorating and happy making. Those are all quotes And I'm just like in a Twilight Zone episode. I don't want to kill you. I don't want you to kill me. I want to have a good life here, but got to be honest about what's going on. So all this and more- S686 and more next hour. Remember, we are funded by you. We have great products. you need Infowarsstorecom. We have the highest quality water filtration and air filtration. Now back in stock, the lowest price. you're going to find Anti-quality, durable food for 5% off, Even what my Patriot sells it for it drops ships from them. You can't get a better deal. Infowarsstorecom- The turmeric toothpaste- that's amazing- is selling out The very best CBD oil for your bones and joints and brain and neurological system- 50% off when it's sold in stores. Infowarsstorecom, and so much more. I'm going to copy my book The Great Reset in the War of the World while you're at Infowarsstorecom. I appreciate all of your support. We'll be right back with our number two, with Alex Stein, who got attacked by some of these cult members over the weekend, and more Hour number two straight ahead. The fight against the New World Order is now the top story in the world. The globalists are in deep trouble, but they're striking back with all their deep state operatives to shut down Infowars and other truth tellers like James O'Keefe and Tucker Carlson and countless others. So please pray for us now more than ever. Spread the word about the broadcast and get great products to keep us on air and fund our operation while at the same time enriching your life. Now we've got three new products available at Infowarsstorecom and a best seller back in stock. We have the amazing Dr Jones Naturals turmeric toothpaste. that's so much more. Find out more at Infowarsstorecom. We have the ashwagandha root pills with black powder extract to accelerate your libido, stamina, testosterone. We have pure ashwagandha gummies at Infowarsstorecom as well. These are all the highest quality products. The prebiotic is now finally back in stock. They're all there at Infowarsstorecom. so please take action now. Enrich your life, empower your body and keep us on air. Please take action now. Infowarsstorecom. Ladies and gentlemen, Infowars has proven itself the last 28 years to be over the globalist target and having the biggest effect out there against those tyrants, And we fund our operation with viewers and listeners support, while selling you great products at the same time. So on it. thank all the viewers and listeners who have supported us over the years by spreading the word, praying for the broadcast and buying product. But I really want to encourage those of you that have been on the fence and have never actually gone to Infowarsstorecom to go there and get the great books and films and supplements and survival gear that's there that won't just empower you and enrich your life but again, will keep this broadcast transmitting. So, whether it's Real Red Pill Plus, or our super high quality CBD oil, or the 50% Off, or a great fizzy magnesium product, or whether it's Downton Out or a Sleep Basis back in stock. it's all there. Our turmeric 95%- humanoid- strongest out there- turmeric 95, it's all available at Infowarsstorecom and it keeps it on the air. So make the decision to enrich your life and keep us on air. Infowarsstorecom. Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the new world order. it's Alex Jones. All right, Alex Stein's coming up the next segment to talk about the trans cult that attacked him over the weekend and all the latest developments, but I wanted to air part of this. Never Stein leaves us. I'm gonna get to the bill itself. It's something else we're going through at S686.. The supposed counter to TikTok is a total, not internet takeover, but takeover of all the devices in your house. so the Chinese don't do it, Don't worry, big Uncle Sam brother's gonna do it. Here's part of Tucker Carlson's report. the full 10 minute report's up on Infowarscom. Every day, more than 2 billion people use the social media app called TikTok. Many of them are young people under the age of 24.. If you had kids, you probably know already how TikTok works. TikTok lets users upload short videos. Usually they're under 30 seconds. What's interesting is that the content of these videos varies a lot depending upon what country you're in. If you're in China, where TikTok is headquartered, you tend to get more educational content, But if you live in this country, you get an awful lot of filth and propaganda tailored for kids. I'm not guessing about this. We ran an experiment to prove it last summer. Watch The TikTok that Chinese residents, children in China, get to see is very different from the one your kids are looking at here Now. in China, where TikTok is known under a different name, videos like these are very common. Watch You know what American kids, your kids, are watching on TikTok stuff like this. Well, that's kind of weird. Can you see what's going on here? Well, China does. They run TikTok and China knows. if you want a productive society that extends beyond, say, next week, you teach your kids about hard work and creativity and personal responsibility, respect for authority. But if you want to destroy a society, you funnel a ton of garbage to kids about gender, ideology and twerking, As the account lives of TikTok is documented extensively. That's exactly what TikTok is doing here. There's a whole genre of videos of teachers boasting about indoctrinating kids. I have had multiple students come out to me not just with their sexuality, but also with their gender identity. It's one of the reasons I think it's so important to be out and loud and proud. I teach my elementary school students about gender identity. Some people are girls, some are boys, some are both, some are neither. So it goes without saying that- net net as they say- TikTok is not a positive influence on American society. And right now, in response to criticism of TikTok, China's government and the company itself are doing the same thing they did when they responded to allegations of a lab leak in Wuhan. They're saying: anyone who raises questions is a racist. And they're doing that everywhere across the media. And they can because a lot of the news that you consume is paid for by TikTok. Politico, a completely, completely ideologically corrupt organization on Northern Virginia, has a so-called playbook that is sponsored by TikTok every other week. CNN, meanwhile, just put its tech reporter on the air to inform you that criticizing TikTok opens up Chinese-Americans to quote hate and violence. If you criticize TikTok, you're killing Asian people. So, confronted with all this, you might support efforts in the Congress right now to ban TikTok altogether- And a lot of people do, not just on the right, but also on the left, which is kind of interesting. This is one of those weird moments where there's, or appears to be, some kind of bipartisan consensus, And that alone might want to make you pause for a second. If everyone in power is saying the same thing, is it really a good idea? Let's take a closer look. And again, this is not a defensive TikTok, merely an acknowledgement of what's actually happening in Washington right now. So one of the bills that would ban TikTok is being pushed, as we said, by senators in both parties. It's called the restrict act. Mark Warner of Virginia and John Thune of South. Most banned man in America, Alex Jones. I want you all to know something: Alex Jones was right. Alex is right about far more than is wrong. Alex has been right on for over a decade. I don't care how you slice it, dice it, flip it up or rub it down. Alex Jones was right. Think about how frustrated we are. if you've been awake for a year or two. Imagine being like an Alex Jones or those guys who've been awake for like decades. Alex Jones called this years ago, years ago. Alex Jones never bought the Russia hoax- not for a second. You are one of the great thinkers of this. You are a martyr to the first amendment. The government fears Alex Jones. That's why the globalists hate me is because I'm exposing their corporate worldwide tyranny From the front lines of the information war. it's Alex Jones. Well, even before the tragic mass shooting at a Christian elementary school in Tennessee yesterday, I was wanting to get Alex Stein on. I appreciate him coming on on short notice because over the weekend I saw one of the latest videos of his going viral, Millions and millions of years of him out in a trans probe, trans protest event And they began to dump coffee on him, physically attacking him, threatening him, saying he hopes he dies, hopes he commits suicide. And now we've had this latest event that's taken place. You have the big trans community groups who covered it last hour saying: oh yeah, we have a day of rage coming, a day of violence on April 1st. I don't know if that's going to materialize. I hope it doesn't, because we're being genocided, We're committing suicide. Well, because you're in a cult the globalist set up that statistically is incredibly destructive for people. So Audrey Hale thought that she thought she was a man, was being targeted And there's a manifesto they're trying to keep from us. but we're told and we can see on posts she made that it was she was mad at transphobics. The way you get back at those is you shoot some eight, nine year old children to death with a rifle. So this is definitely a new thing to have women who think they're men out doing what the media advertises- mass shootings. And we know the copycat effect that when somebody jumps off the Brooklyn Bridge they go to post cops there for about a week as a bunch of others will start doing it And it causes like a stampede of lemmings. So now it's kind of out there in the mind of these folks on all these psychotropic drugs and hormones that well the way you protest is you just go to a Christian school. you know in a state that's passing a law that you can't mutilate children surgically And you mutilate kids with high powered rifle rounds. So I want to play a few minutes. We had to bleep it quite a bit because every other word is a cuss word of some of the frothing mob And Alex will tell us where this took place when it unfolded just a few days ago. I know we covered events in Austin as well. They were in all 50 states, with the trans crowd out wanting to protect children by having access to them surgically. Here it is. I want you to see these white races. Oh, this is San Francisco. These are disgusting. They want to cut and mutilate children's genitals. Look, they want to cut children's waders off And they start shoving him and pushing him out of the crowd over and over again, Or even trying to film it. They're also anti-free speech. that goes without saying. How are you going to protect a kid by cutting off his genitals? These people don't want to protect kids. They don't want to protect kids by what? By cutting their genitals off, Guys, you're not protecting a kid by cutting his wiener off. You kids, You should not have your feet cut. Yes, Get off me, Get off me, Get off me, Get off me. Hey, hey, hey, hey, No, no, no. Look at this, Guys, this is where these people come from. Get off me, Get off me, Get off me. And they feel entitled to be violent. You guys should be ashamed of yourself, And I've got the articles right here with major trans organizations saying: well, you know, the killer's a victim too, Because you were mean to him- her. So let's go to Alex Stein now to talk about this. Couldn't be a more timely time to have him on. We've got Minnesota lawmakers advanced transgender reps legislation that could strip custody from parents who don't support child's transition. Canada's trying to take kids from parents that don't want them to commit suicide. I mean, this is a death cult. I'm wondering how much more obvious it's got to get Alex Stein. thank you for joining us. Of course Alex Stein needs no introduction. Alexstein99 on Twitter. Alexstein99 on YouTube, Also doing a very popular, very entertaining, informative show with The Blaze as well. Love the set, Love what he does, Love the fact that he's just reaching more and more people. Alex, good to have you here with us. Well, it's a pleasure. but let me talk about the real elephant in the room, Alex, that nobody's talking about. So we see levels of autism today from an MMR vaccine, measles, mumps, rubella, that the pharmaceutical companies will even say that correlation does not equal causation, when the alarming rates of autism. And now, if you actually look, and you actually look at the mental health studies, a lot of these people that identify as non-binary or transgender are high functioning autists. You'll see now in the media they're talking about Aubrey Hale is a high functioning autist. So that is the crux of this problem is that we're basically enabling people that are actually mentally challenged. It's even stronger than gender dysphoria. They're actually suffering from autism And that is why this society is getting so bad, because the increased rate of autism is going to only increase the rate of transgenderism. You just hit the nail on the board. a decade ago I had a liberal member of parliament on who found over half the kids they were having transition were autistic. They know, once you get an autistic kid to obsess on something and give them attention, when they're like six or seven or even younger, they then tell them: you're a boy, you're a girl, they're really the other. That becomes their identity. They become obsessed with it And if you criticize them or warn them, they think you're attacking them And absolutely you go to these events. almost all these people are completely autistic. They're victims. No, and you really. you look at the kids and the kids you can tell are slightly autistic And for a parent, there's nothing more evil than you have a kid that is suffering from a form of mental retardation. I'm not even saying that to be funny. You know, we call a spade a spade, And now you're enabling them to not only change their sex, but to actually get gender reassignment surgery. See, this rally, Alex, was not just for trans awareness. This was actually youth for trans. This is a rally in order to fight legislation that is preventing in states like Florida and Idaho and they're trying to do in Texas, preventing gender reassignment surgery for children. So these people, they have all the rights that you and I have. They're not missing any rights. What they're fighting for is that children can have state sponsored gender mutilation surgery, And for me, that is why I'm out there in that crowd fighting against it. If you want to be trans, go ahead. If you're an adult, that's fine, But to enable these kids and to trick these kids that are, you know, mentally ill, there's nothing more disgusting, in my opinion. Alex, You're absolutely right And while you were just talking, the crew just searched what you said for new viewers. We're not making this up. They found a bunch of mainline articles admitting: oh yes, most of the trans kids are autistic. So they're just confusing autistic children and saying: you're confused not because we fried your brain with drugs or chemicals or GMO or poison shots. No, no, no, no, no, no. You're not a boy, You're not a girl. You're a space alien. You're a free spirit, You're a. there's hundreds of these new genders. It's like telling kids: oh, take the shot, You're like a superhero. They're like: oh, become a new, a new thing, Just pick your identity. These little kids that are autistic think they're like picking a superhero they want to be. They're really being inducted into a deep state operation to finally sterilize them. No, and that's actually what's happening, And people are going to get mad at us for talking about this, And it's a subject that's not talked about in the mainstream media whatsoever. And it's something that really should be covered is the rates of autism and the rates of children that identify as this. And once again, it's the attack on the children That is the problem, And you've been exposing this for a long time. But, man, with the massive amounts of pornography, and then you look at, like you said earlier, with the psychotropic drugs, when you get a kid on dissociative properties in their brain, I mean literally medicine that makes him antisocial, that doesn't help their mood. I mean, whose mood is supposed to be stabilized, Alex? That doesn't even make sense. The idea of giving somebody a mood stabilizer. that's not life. You're supposed to have ups and downs, happy and sad, But they literally want to turn these people into zombies that have no connection with reality and that they actually probably fantasize about shooting kids. And when they do it- when this person does it once again- the trans community doesn't even take any onus of it. As a matter of fact, USA Today apologized for misgendering the school shooter Alex. So that's where we're at. They care more about the feelings of a dead school shooter and offending a community than actually telling the truth- Absolutely right. And they go further. when their own people commit suicide or kill others, They say: oh, you were mean to them, That's why they did it, Not because they're caught in this cult. Alex Stein is always on target. He's going to continue with us on the other side and talk about where we go next. If Alex Jones runs for president in the Republican Party, he has a chance of winning. If you just tuned in, you may be noticing I'm wearing an Alex Jones for president 2024 shirt. I am not seriously planning to run for president. This is an idea. the crew had to have a triggering shirt, Kind of next level. Alex Jones was right. There's Infowarscom in the back, Alex Jones for president 2024 on the front. It's a fundraiser shirt. It's made out of really nice fabric, It's high quality And it is a exclusive shirt to Infowarsstorecom. And when the shirts are gone, they're gone. We're doing one run of Alex Jones for president: 2024 shirts And we'll have a historic memento: be able to spread the word, meet a lot of like minded people and you will be able to keep us on the air. No way, No way, That's a bridge too far, That's no, it can't be. And I said on national television that he was going to win At Infowarsstorecom. We now have three new game changing products that are in stock at Infowarsstorecom And one of our best selling products sold out for over a year, that's now back in stock. Our prebiotic. does any introduction to such amazing things: your gut flora, your overall health, what it does is essential, but read about it at Infowarsstorecom. And now the fourth: toothpaste is on my dad. The last two were big hits. This one is really special. It's turmeric concentrate with a bunch of other essential oils and so much more to take your mouth's health to the next level. We also have high quality ashwagandha root for your libido, your stamina, your testosterone, with black pepper extract to accelerate it as a pill. And we have ashwagandha root gummies as well- Very strong, very powerful- Now in stock at Infowarsstorecom. Go there, experience these great products and others and fund the Infowars. The only way we fail is not taking action. God bless you. Now, please visit Infowarsstorecom and experience these powerful products for yourself. We now have three new game changing products that are in stock at Infowarsstorecom, And one of our best selling products sold out for over a year that's now back in stock. Our prebiotic does any introduction with such amazing things: your gut flora, your overall health, What it does is essential. Go read about it at Infowarsstorecom. And now the fourth toothpaste is on my dad. The last two were big hits. This one is really special. It's turmeric concentrate with a bunch of other essential oils and so much more to take your mouth's health to the next level. We also have high quality ashwagandha root for your libido, your stamina, your testosterone, with black pepper extract to accelerate it as a pill. And we have ashwagandha root gummies as well- Very strong, very powerful- Now in stock at Infowarsstorecom. Go there, experience these great products and others and fund the Infowars. The only way we fail is not taking action. God bless you. Now, please visit Infowarsstorecom and experience these powerful products for yourself. I've got some good news: Our high quality supplements really work And we have about an 80% reorder rate with customers. That's the good news. They're amazing. The bad news is around 1% or a little less of our actual viewers and listeners ever go to Infowarsstorecom and ever actually buy the products. So you're missing out on these products. Plus, it funds the Infowars. Think of what we've done with just 1% of our massive audience actually buying products. Think what would happen if those of you on the fence actually went to Infowarsstorecom and got some of these amazing products. I would recommend Tumorink 95 for your joints, your bones, inflammation, to get one of the biggest effects. So you reorder it and see how great it is. Also, we've got the super high quality full spectrum CBD oil that's so good for your neurological systems, your brain, your joints, your bones as well, Or Real Red Pill Plus. Just go try the product, fund the Infowars and help us defeat the New World War together. Infowarsstorecom Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. It's Alex Jones. I thought the devil got down on his level, But I never get in. so you hear me, I'm a stranger to the rain. I don't spot bad weapons And the police have got a lot of problems, but they have been thrown in the middle of this meat grinder and they have withstood the pain and we salute the officers that took out this psychotic demon. Alex Stein, how do we counter a system that knowingly has put pesticides and chemicals and mercury in the injections that all the real studies show have caused from 1 in 15,000 60 years ago, with autism, to 1 in 33 today, even worse, in places like South Korea? The more the shots, the more it happens. Then they tailor it to target these children for sterilization. You can see this program of evil. How do we stop it? Well, I mean, I would want to say, like you always talk about the information war, and I say that kind of with trepidation, because no amount of information can convince an idiot. And that's the problem is that I'm not very smart, Society is not very smart. They just want to follow the leader and be told that everything is safe and effective. So, like you said, I mean, from what they spray in the skies to what they put in our tap water, to the vaccines that they give us when we're an infant, I don't know. It's a very, very challenging, tough question that I don't know if I have the answers to, because it's more than the new world order. It's some sort of satanic agenda that is anti-human, for lack of a better word. I totally agree with you All this talk in the media that the trans community is being targeted, when they're being targeted by the globalist, but not by us. they've been created by the globalist And now the creation is mad at those of us because it's miserable. We're trying to help them, But what are you expecting to see? Because I know you go out and interface these folks more than anybody else around the country. They always attack you with the drag queen, pedo times, all of it. So you know these folks as good as anybody out there. They're really talking about battle of the gods, good or done or wrong, Armageddon type stuff. What do you expect to see out of them? now? I hope nobody goes out and attacks them back. No, nobody should retaliate. That's exactly the opposite of what we should do is any sort of retaliation. But you have guys like Scott Wiener, who's a state senator in California, Alex and everybody's familiar with him, And he has pictures where he's at gay pride event with leather BDSM gear. For me, he's a legislator that is literally trying to make accessible gender reassignment surgery for children of all age. We have people that are in the highest power, the highest positions, that are writing the bills. He said he wants to legalize pedophilia. Literally. that's like literally. I mean, you know, obviously I don't want to say anything that I haven't seen. I don't want to accuse him of being a pedophile, but every tweet, every legislation, everything he signed, has groomer, pedophilia vibes. Well, I mean, no, I mean I mean he's gotten laws passed to not have criminal charges on pedophiles. Yeah, It's like the guy. what's the guy? I can't remember the Twitter guy's name. He wrote the book on gay grinder and in that same book he said that kids should have access to gay dating apps. And this is the person that said, you know, the head of the biggest social media platform on the internet, arguably, I guess, other than Facebook. So I mean, it's just, I don't know. there's a sick, evil agenda, Alex, and you know this and I know this. there's only a few people that really are calling the shots and it's guys like you know, the Jeffrey Epstein's, the top dogs. these people do not care about children. They've abused children at the highest levels. You look at John Luke Brunell- actually one of the most disgusting things that Jeffrey Epstein would talk about and brag about- and this is an open thing- is, for Jeffrey Epstein's birthday, Jean-Luc Brunell gave him three 11 year old triplets And that was, you know, his- you know his- best sexual experience that he would describe. So he's best friends with a guy named Bill Clinton who is literally getting BJs from Monica Lewinsky. So what I'm saying when I look at this whole agenda- and it goes to the top, guys like Dennis Hastert, Speaker of the House, was a pedophile. So this is a pedophile grooming agenda, Alex, and it's satanic, it's demonic. We talk about this in the culture where all the time. but it's this anti-God. it's bigger than you and I, It's bigger than FO Wars And sadly I have this kind of black pill mindset where I don't want to feel hopeless because I don't want to be a victim. You don't want to be a victim, But sadly we taught every single kid that that's how you gain social points in societies: by being the biggest victim. So until we change the whole mindset of teaching kids that they're not a victim because their ancestors were slaves or you know, or we don't poison them and cause them to have autism, we don't stop this. The movie Idiocracy is going to come to life And it's, I feel, like we're on a trajectory that's almost unstoppable at this point. Well, that's it. You know we're vindicated that the New World Order is out in the open, but who cares? We're now here in it And I have that same feeling of not even depression, It's more just like my mouth's hanging open, And by the day it gets more insane. Where do you see this going? Is there any bottom to it? Well, I mean, I was. it's funny. I was actually just watching the Obama deception, one of the best movies ever, And you know that kind of laid the groundwork and obviously a lot of your documentaries. But I'm watching that and this is why I'm having an existential crisis And I'm like Barack Obama is still in power. He is obviously still the shadow president. So we have this deep state And you know, you look at Joe Biden and the business dealings with Hunter Biden. everybody knows about the illegal deals. I don't even care about that, I mean. I mean, obviously I take that back. I do care about that, But what I care about more is the New World Order. is that these elites that are trying to destabilize America and make us incredibly weak. I'm not surprised that a politician trying to make money. I'm just sad that a poll that these politicians are trying to ruin America put a stain on America by potentially arresting Donald Trump for a misdemeanor crime And the problem is that puts a stain on the whole entire country, Alex, That makes us look bad. So we're shooting ourselves in the foot And I don't know we're going to keep shooting ourselves in the foot until we run out of metaphorical bullets. at this point I want to talk about a young turds clip. when we come back. It's up on Infowarscom Just days before the shooting in Tennessee. he told trans people get guns because the right wing is coming to kill you And we're not killing any of these people. And I mean the point is, is that they're literally being told they're under attack. So they come out, attack us. It's just, it's so sad And you know people are getting mad at me. They want me to press charges out. But you know, and I probably should have, because these people don't face any consequences when they do this stuff. They don't face any consequences in the media, As a matter of fact, in all their groups they're probably applauded. They're probably said: oh, that's good. You have to fight the patriarchy You have to fight. I mean describe as we see in the video. they're hitting you, they're pouring things on you, they're threatening you, But obviously the camera can't catch it all. You need a few extra camera people with you, not just by yourself, a lot of courage marching into these groups. They always attack you As soon as they're getting more bold. what they do to you in San Francisco, Well, I mean, I was getting punched out. You know the hot coffee, Alex, when they poured a big jug of cold water on me. that was actually kind of nice. I mean, that wasn't a big deal. But the hot coffee was weird because I wasn't expecting it. It was about six inches from my face. Luckily I had sunglasses on, but it was just. it felt like I got sprayed with urine. at first I had like an Andy No flashback. I'm like what did I? just because it was a warm liquid is very unpleasant. when it wasn't burning hot, They'd been standing outside for a little while, But when I get hit with this hot liquid, it was just very unusual. I never felt out of control, because they're a bunch of wimps, Alex. I could have literally fought them myself. You and I, Alex, we could have taken them out by ourselves. They're a bunch of soy, very weak people. They feel entitled to attack whoever they want. But yeah, when I was in Seattle the guy had a boiling hot thermos but luckily it cooled off in a few seconds but dumped it right on my face. We'll be right back. Stay with us. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a new toothpaste that my dad, a retired dentist and oral surgeon, developed: Dr Jones natural tumor toothpaste. that just came into stock And I got to tell you I got samples of this months ago and it is amazing. the way it makes your gums feel. What it does to your mouth is insane. We know turmeric is an antioxidant and anti-inflammatory. it does such great things to the body. Then you add that with tea tree oil and a bunch of other essential oils, it is just dynamite. It is so good to detox and attack inflammation in your mouth. I want to challenge everybody to try the new toothpaste at mfoolworthstorecom: Dr Jones natural turmeric toothpaste. And, while you're at it, check out the new ashwagandha line of products. We have ashwagandha with black pepper extract for your libido, your testosterone, in pill form, and we have the pure ashwagandha root gummies as well, now available at mfoolworthstorecom. They're amazing products and they fund the mfoolworthstore. Take action now at mfoolworthstorecom. The fight against the new world order is now the top story in the world. The globalists are in deep trouble, but they're striking back with all their deep state operatives to shut down mfoolworths and other truth tellers like James O'Keefe and Tucker Carlson and countless others. So please pray for us now more than ever. spread the word about the broadcast and get great products to keep us on air and fund our operation while at the same time enriching your life. Now we've got three new products available at mfoolworthstorecom and a best seller back at stock. We have the amazing Dr Jones naturals turmeric toothpaste and so much more. Find out more at mfoolworthstorecom. We have the ashwagandha root pills with black powder extract to accelerate your libido, stamina, testosterone. We have pure ashwagandha gummies at mfoolworthstorecom as well. These are all the highest quality products. The prebiotic is now finally back at stock. They're all there at mfoolworthstorecom. so please take action now. Enrich your life, empower your body and keep us on air. Please take action now. mfoolworthstorecom- Right now. I'm not talking to the viewers and listeners that have gone to mfoolworthstorecom and gotten the great products that enrich your life, that empower your immune system and your body and keep us on air. I am humbly, hand in hand, talking to the viewers and listeners that have tuned in, many of you for years and never gone to mfoolworthstorecom. We know the vast, vast, vast, vast majority of you never actually go to mfoolworthstorecom and never experience these great products and never find the operation. Whether you share a link, you share an article, you tell folks about the show, that's great and I thank you. But we need funds to operate. plus, we've got really great products that do amazing things for people, like our CBD oil and our fizzy magnesium and our sleep aid and our nitric oxide and our real red pill. plus. all of these are really great products that keep us on air. plus, you're missing out on having these products. So get off the bench, get in the game, step to the plate and go to mfoolworthstorecom right now and get these great mfoolworths products at mfoolworthstorecom five, six, seven days a week. It's really just incredible. So for myself, the whole mfoolworths crew, I thank you for your past support and only encourage you now to realize that mfoolworths cannot stay on air if you do not support us. I know you spread the word, I know you pray for us and that's wonderful. Keep doing it. But most viewers and listeners never go to mfoolworthstorecom and you never buy great products that enrich and empower your life all at the same time. keep us on air. I know that less than 1% of our listeners actually go buy products at mfoolworthstorecom. If just 1% more of you took action and went to mfoolworthstorecom, our funding problems will be over. Please take action now, Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones. So we hear from the January 6th propaganda that right wingers are planting violence everywhere, but really it's the left with antifund BLM and all the rest of that we see engaging in violence statistically off the charts. And I don't bring up this article because it's about me, but it's illustrative of what's going on. This is all over Twitter, all over Facebook, without me even looking. It's been sent to me like a hundred times, not just this article. This article is about the trend and you read the article and it says why Jane Fonda is being compared to Alex Jones after Nashville shooting. And it says Jane Fonda said it's time to start killing Christians because they're trying to restrict abortion. And that's just like Alex Jones saying: attack schools. When did I ever see they know the general public doesn't know about Adam Lanza that did the shooting at Sandy Hook. You hear the word Sandy Hook, you think Alex Jones. So now it's a whole article about: just like Alex Jones wants violence, Jane Fonda wants violence. What, What, What? I thought I was bad for saying maybe something was staged. I wasn't even the first person to say it, I just covered a news item. But see, that's how they're blurring the lines, with people not paying attention. And then I've got countless articles like this one Video: leftist professor suspended after calling for murder of conservative speakers. That's on Infowarscom. So that's the backdrop. but here's Sink Uyghur urges trans Americans to get guns just days before Nashville mass shootings. So did NPR just on Thursday, Tucker Crobert on Friday. So the talking point is: the right wing's coming to kill you, get your guns, and then they go out and shoot people. And the last five mass shooters that just randomly targeted people were trans. So these people are brainwashed, they're autistic And this is mind control on a mass scale. folks, Because they listen to the media, they believe it, they're obsessed and they go out. So it's just insane, ladies and gentlemen, how all this works. So let's play a quick Young Turds Club And then let's play the one about. if he's a world dictator, he wants to legalize pleasuring donkeys. Here it is. I'll be a little bit of a hypocrite here, but it's not. I'll explain why I'm saying it. I don't like guns. I would ban assault weapons in a second. We can go on and on about the gun control that we need in this country, And I always tell people: don't get guns, it'll make you less safe. I'm gonna make you an exception here for trans people. They are actually in danger. They have had hundreds of laws passed against them. They have right wing media ginning up fear against them- 24: seven. They are targeted more than any other group in America And if anyone should get guns, it should be trans Americans. okay, Because I'm worried for them. I'm worried that the right wing lunatics are going to attack them as they have over and over again. And, by the way, it's not just right wing lunatics. other people attack trans folks as well. I believe that I am going. I, if I were the rule of the benevolent dictator of the world, I would legalize bestiality where you are giving, where you are pleasuring animal. You see what I'm saying. Okay, Okay, What, what now? Why? Why did that happen Is the dumbest thing you said. It really is the dumbest thing. you said No, no, I'll tell you why. I'll tell you why It was the case that we covered where there was like a guy or a girl or something that was pleasuring a horse, and the horse came to a conclusion, right. So who got harmed? You know that people who are okay- look not to be a downer, I don't want to hear more of- the point is that guy's a pervert and they know exactly what they're doing and they know exactly what they're selling, And so we see the agenda really on display here. Alex Stein, Well, you know, I don't want to be too black filled. Let's talk about the actual incredible response by the national SWAT team. They went in there and they, you know, stabilized the situation and took out the school shooter. And the reason why that's a big deal is because you look at you, I think they could have done the same thing with a similar shooter that had some sort of gender dysphoria. So it's the response of the police department. I think that saved a lot of lives. So that's the one positive thing about this and just trying to find something so we don't just sit here and, you know, make everybody so sad. like you know, all these guys are actual heroes for walking in there And you know that's not an easy thing to pull. They were getting shot at when the killer- I mean they're getting- they walked right into the car And they weren't scared. I mean, then you see the videos of Uvalde, you know SWAT team, where they're using hand sanitizer, They're kind of smirking, They're taking their time, They're not running in there. I mean those guys are real heroes. So those guys definitely deserve, you know, some kudos for that. And, by the way, 20 years ago you never saw cops stand down and act like cowards. I'm ashamed. actually, that happened in Texas. Cops always acted like the police in Tennessee. What the hell's happening? I guess this is an example of it. They're becoming bureaucrats, not warriors. Yeah, because, listen, you're in Texas, I'm in Texas, I talk to these sheriffs all the time. I'm in the bail bond business. You know these cops are afraid to do their job because now everything is so litigious and being a cop now you're basically kind of like a hall monitor. So the idea that these guys are like solving crimes are really and truly. they're going to domestic violence situations, and oftentimes in bad situations and domestic violence. that's one of the worst calls that cops respond to, and they actually get hurt, oftentimes in domestic violence. So I don't know that they have a very uphill battle, But I know by taking away my guns or your guns, the cops are still going to have them. The military is still going to have them. So with all this, this is the biggest key, I think, for us talking that we are the counterculture, We have to talk about how this is a mental health problem. This is not a gun problem. It was the guns that took the killer out. We need more guns, And that's, you know, Sank Uyghur or whatever, talking about, you know, fellatio on the horse. That's disgusting, But at least he was kind of right in saying we need more guns. I believe guns actually protect us. So not just the bad guys should have guns. Good guys should have them as well, Absolutely. But you know we talked about this earlier. We're not being blackpilled. being honest about this. The good news is we know what's going on, And the good news is we know it's an engineered, globalist operation, And so that means we can stop it, We can cut it off. I mean, look at how they were pushing the poison shot in the lockdowns. We stopped that. Now the globalists are in trouble on that front. So, as negative as it is, I want listeners to realize that we don't have a choice. We've got to stand up, We've got to fight. This is all coming out of an organized evil plan that's even beyond humans. There's humans that organize it, but there's an evil force that thought all this up. I think you hit the nail on the head earlier. Well, and you know, Alex, this is a real thing And I really actually want to make this point, especially on your program. There's a lot of people on the alt right that want to blame Israel or blame a certain religion for all of their problems. because, no, do not blame anybody else for your own problems. We're the author of our own autobiography. We could be a victim for a million different reasons. The medical industrial complex killed my mom. I could lay down and die and be a little baby back, little girl about it and, you know, whine and make people feel sorry for me, But that's the opposite of what I want to do. So that's the that's the big problem in the society, Alex, is it's just that I keep talking about this, but you are in control of your own life. It is not the Illuminati, It's not the New World Order- All that stuff is happening, But you can create a family, You can create happiness, You can have a job or something you're passionate about and create art, create a podcast, create anything, create a family. You are in control, Not these people. They trick us into thinking that they have all the power, but we outnumber them. But that's really what I want to try to get to people. you know whether you want you when you watch this. just realize we have all the power, not them, Alex. So we shouldn't be victims. I 100 percent agree with you about that. I want to come back and talk to you about this new legislation. Have you seen S, six, eight, six. yet Which one is that? I saw that they're protesting about all that trans stuff at the Capitol. but is this the tech one? Is this a tick tock one? This is the tick tock one, And what I'm saying is: this is the holy grail of control. It's everything we knew was coming: Total weaponized AI of civilization, AI running everything. They say, well, the Chinese are taking over the AI. So our AI is to take over all your devices and watch you and protect you in a lifetime. It is. It is so crazy. I feel like I'm hallucinating when I read the bill. We'll look at it with Alex Stein primetime ninety nine straight ahead. We love him to death And we love you. We appreciate everybody. Alex Stein, Ninety nine- Stay with us. I'm a huge believer in information. I watch him for wars every day and follow Alex Jones closely. You know why. He can put you ahead of the curve And he's been demonized as a conspiracy theorist. Think about how frustrated we are. if you've been awake for a year or two, Imagine being like an Alex Jones or those guys who've been awake for like decades. Alex has been right on for over a decade. This is reality. It just can't be. Truth is stranger than fiction. The revolution of peaceful information is coming And when it comes time, you people are going to be brought to punishment. You're lying to the public. It's disgusting. The media continues to misrepresent what I've said. He may be America's best known conspiracy theorist. Alex Jones has the largest audience in the country, bigger than any of the networks, the biggest megaphone in the country. We're going to get fired up about the real things, the things that matter. Burn in hell. New World Order Every time I talk to you, you're either like on the border exposing the cartels and like coming under fire, or you're on the streets of some American city hanging out with drug addicts and criminals. And now you've gone to ground zero of a massive chemical spill. Are you addicted to the danger, Savannah? Have you ever considered that for a second? No, I'm addicted to helping my fellow Americans. I'm addicted to spreading the truth And again, you know, I have info wars to thank for that. Looking back on the day I was able to ask President Donald Trump two questions. I was so grateful because, you know, I truly was classically trained under Alex Jones and under the info wars team. I really do credit that as to why I'm able to, you know, get these types of clips, because Alex's whole mentality was, you know, go where the story is, go where the mainstream media refuses to. So it's not that I'm addicted to the insanity, I'm just addicted to telling the truth and helping the American people And I really do credit Alex for, you know, really instilling that within me. early on in my career, Thousands of former Nazis went to work for the United States government. A flying disk has been found and is now in the possession of the army. Here is a bulletin from CBS News: President Kennedy has been shot. This is a different kind of war. The USS Liberty had just been attacked by Israeli jets and competitors. The CIA could manipulate the news in the United States. They took the babies out of incubators and left the children to die on the cold floor. It was almost as if it were a plan in full. It just tanked him. We need to go into the Capitol. Yes, yes, yes. We will always have conspiracy theories. They are nothing but distractions. You guys censored Harvard educated doctors. You silenced those voices. What we want to do in Davos is push the reset button. As soon as we start exposing the great reset, the sooner these globalists start going to prison. Ladies and gentlemen, this book, The Great Reset in the War for the World, is a historic book that documents the globalists, in their own words, plan for our future. that is a hellish future. Now you will always- while they still allow books- I guess they are starting to ban them- be able to get an unsigned copy of The Great Reset in the War for the World at bookstores, Amazon or Infowarswarcom, But you will never be able to get another signed copy of the book after the signed copies we got run out And there's about a thousand left of them right now. So get your copy of The Great Reset and The War for the World, a signed copy, at Infowarswarcom- And there is a markup there because this is a fundraiser to keep us on the air- So you won't just have this historic memento and this powerful book, you'll also know that you help keep Infowars on the air. I'm going to thank those of you that have gotten signed copies of the book or unsigned copies, but I want to encourage all of you who haven't yet to go to Infowarswarcom and get a signed copy and buy a couple of unsigned copies and donate them to the library or give them to the local school. This is an Infowar. I'm counting on you and thank you for your support. Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones. You know, Alex, I want to talk about solutions here with you, and then some other news items And this big AI takeover bill. I mean that's folks. you cannot exaggerate how bad this is. It is the holy grail of total control. It's so stunning I can hardly even talk about it because during the breaks I'm trying to read the legislation. It's worse than Tucker Carlson said last night. I'll be honest. Usually we break this. Tucker broke this last night. I knew the tick tock bill was bad, but I hadn't read it. It's just insane. When I say insane, folks, the government, without warrants, takes control of all devices everywhere in live time to protect you from the Chinese and surveil you. I mean it's just with AI. only AI can do this. It says AI And it lists everything. Like if you question an election, the government bans your devices where your home computer doesn't work. Remember, like 15 years ago they were mad at Napster and McCain introduced a bill and he went on TV and he said: we've got a bill that just blows up your computer. That doesn't physically blow it up, It fries it. That's what this is on steroids. OK. so I mean right now I am just flabbergasted. But I was talking here in the break. You want to get back into the Tennessee response versus the Texas response in Uvalde and how you talk about solutions. This is the action. not politically correct police, not cowards, not bureaucrats, but taking action. And sure the cops are saying we just did our job. but in a world of cowards and people sitting on their ass, this is what the system fears is men of action. Alex Stein, Well, I sent your producer, Scott, a great guy. I sent him a picture of the Uvalde SWAT team. If you look at them, they look like a dictionary definition of intersectionalism. You know it's, everybody is. you know, some sort of ethnicity, you know marginalized ethnicity, And that's. the problem is that we don't have a meritocracy. But, Alex, I actually want to talk about the AI real quick. You made a good point is that that's how they surveil us. But this is why the AI is even getting scarier. I'm not really necessarily worried about the AI becoming sentient- Not anytime soon. But we talk about the kids. I think it's like 85 percent of kids or students in colleges have used chat, GPT in order to cheat or in order to, you know, help them study, which it seems OK, Right, In essence, that seems like it might be a good thing. They're trying to use technology to become- quote unquote- smarter. But that's what's happening now. They're having to create this counter artificial intelligence to catch the kids cheating. So now these kids can use artificial intelligence. They don't have to learn anything else. At least we just have to read a book. We had to actually write something, do something. Now. with chat, GPT and artificial intelligence, you can actually have a computer do it for you. And this picture is great. I just really want to say- this picture is posted in 2020- of the Uvaldi SWAT team And maybe- I'm going to be honest- the only thing scarier than Uvaldi SWAT team would be if you walk into an airplane and you see two non-binary pilots. That's about the only thing more scary than this SWAT team, in my opinion. Alex, Well, all I know- and I'm not Mr Hero or anything- but if I knew there was a bunch of kids getting shot in the building- whether the cops are there or not- I got a gun. I'm going to go try to kill the person. I don't think of that as heroic. I have an instinct to want to protect children because I see somebody else's children like their mind. That's what empathy is. It's not some wimpy thing that we're taught. God gave it to us that if I see thugs beating up an old lady, I'm going to try to beat the hell out of them And I'm not going to play games because I'm going to pick a metal sign up and smash it over their head because that's my grandma. I don't understand how people don't have an instinct. People ask: why do you fight? Why do you get involved? Well, I mean, it's because it's just what you're supposed to do. I don't even know how, I don't even see it as heroic, It's a default. No, I think you're exactly right. And you look at the word parents that tried to run in Uvaldi and they were stopped. They actually stopped parents from going in and protecting their own kids. I mean, it really is nonsensical. We live in the upside-down world and I guess that becomes a clich at this point. But when you see that response and then you watch the body cam footage of Nashville, it's just a night and day difference Why they're taking on fire from an open window that the trans shooter shot out. So that's not an easy thing to run in there where you're getting shot at. So that response. we need more responses like that in the future when it comes to school shootings. And you notice, this woman wanted to attack another school she'd gone to later in life but cased the place and it had armed men at it, So she didn't go. Well, Alex, they always say this: There's no really defense to a suicide bomber. They told us that after 9-11.. There's not much defense to a suicide shooter, Because if a person's willing to die for their cause, then they can usually take people out with them. And why would you want to go shoot little children? That's what I said, Alex. I'm yelling and screaming because when I got into work this morning I was trying to think of the motivation Why a child I would have got it. Maybe she went to her ex-boyfriend, ex-girlfriend or something. Not that that's justified, but at least there's some sort of motivation. You hate somebody, a random kid, a random child of a pastor. I mean, there's nothing more evil and disgusting. I would hate to ever, when I die, my legacy be that I murdered a child, But because of this abortion, because they don't care about babies. you know, we catch people from Planned Parenthood literally taking home a fetus And we're so desensitized to child death People don't even care. And so I'm just so astonished- And, by the way, before we end this, I forgot to tell the crew. I just so happened Saturday to be in the car with my wife listening to Mark Passio's new podcast, like last week, And he was saying: Mark, my words, mass shootings are imminent. because this is a satanic energy running this. It doesn't even need to have orders from headquarters. The spring is the time of satanic sacrifice. There will be mass shootings. And he said these people are basically spiritually controlled to go do this and predicted it. And you know, it's really true. I mean, this is a spiritual force that drives these people to want to hurt children. Well, Alex, I mean it really comes down to what they teach kids in school is that they evolved from pond scum that were some sort of cosmic accident that there is no creator. So once you have every kid, they're either, you know, autistic from you know horrible medications, And then, if they're not autistic, they're taught that their life is meaningless and that there's no consequences for their actions. So when they hurt people, it doesn't matter because it was all just you know funny joke, It was all just a meaningless experience. when that's not the case And we know that God created this earth that we're on, I mean this world that we live in, there is a creator. But because they hide the creator, that is demonic, That is satanic, And that's why these people are so confused And that's why they think: oh well, if I worship the devil like Sam Smith and I listen to Lil Nas X, I'm cool, I'm edgy. And that's where the brainwashing starts, And it's just like saying safe and effective. Once you just use repetition enough, you can convince and trick a person to do anything or morally think that they are in the right when they're actually shooting children. Because I don't know how Aubrey felt, but Aubrey was planning this. They had a manifesto. So this is not just a random attack. They wanted to go hurt children with a calculated plan to do so. Nothing is more evil or demonic or satanic than that. Alex Stein, we want to thank you so much for joining us. just briefly, And when you start the next segment, I'm going to play a little bit more Tucker Carlson's breakdown of Senate Bill 686, the RESTRICT Act, And then Dr Stella Emanuel is going to be in studio with us with a wonderful lady coming up with- a great supporter of the broadcast, by the way. So she's going to be in here with us to cover the waterfront in the next hour, And then, obviously, the war room, 3 pm Central. Today I'll have open phones. I tend to have open phones today but have a bunch of guests on. Tomorrow we'll be taking open phones as well. But this bill, you've got to get on this, And I'm saying that because I'm just now getting on it. It literally says in here: any questioning of elections. we take over the devices in your house, the government, without a warrant, so you can't say it. So forget Internet passwords, forget Internet IDs, forget that level of censorship that we thought was the coup de grace for them. This is the control of all the devices in the name of stopping the Chinese. Oh, the Chinese might be able to break into your computer. So we're just going to break into everything by law, so that we're going to be your guardian. We're going to totally put you in chains and lock you up and enslave you for your own good. I mean, this is the definition of insane. Yeah, Alex, they're going to take away your privacy under the guise of safety. So you're going to keep you safe by you having no privacy. And we signed the Patriot Act, you know, 21 years ago, or however long ago. that was 22 years ago when we signed that. That gives the government warrantless search and seizure of our phones. Now these Chinese apps- of course they're just mad, Alex, because TikTok is dominating and probably because TikTok wasn't created by the CIA, like Facebook or Twitter or all the social media platforms that we use. So I think now they're just having to put in this legislation as basically a safety net, because China created a app that we get incredibly addicted to because it's like a slot machine. It gives you the likes, So then you have the dope, You have the dopamine hormonal response, You get the likes- And TikTok is better than any other platform- by organically having other people see your content. So you can be just Joe Blow working at a diner. You post a video of your sandwich. Next thing you know you're viral And that is addicting And that is a form of hypnosis. So people are looking at the screen, This black mirror, Alex, until we defeat the black mirror- that's my cat Skybear, but let me close it. I'm saying until we stop the black mirror, Alex, we're going to be constantly just looking at the reflection of our demonic soul, And that's what this screen is. It's just, it's basically a representation of the dark side every time we look at it. Well said, Alex Stein. Everybody can find you on the Blaze weeknights. You gotta cover my show. You gotta cover my show, Alex. I gotta have you on, Please, please. I was on Crowder in Dallas last week. You name the time. All right, Another great guest in studio, But first, more Tucker Carlson. Alex Jones was right. Think about how frustrated we are. if you've been awake for a year or two. Imagine being like an Alex Jones or those guys who've been awake for like decades. Alex Jones called this years ago, years ago. Alex Jones never bought the Russia hoax- not for a second. You are one of the great thinkers of this. You are a martyr to the First Amendment. The government fears Alex Jones. That's why the globalists hate me is because I'm exposing their corporate worldwide tyranny. And now the fourth toothpaste that's on my dad. the last two were big hits. This one is really special. It's turmeric concentrate with a bunch of other essential oils and so much more to take your mouth's health to the next level. We also have high quality ashwagandha root for your libido, your stamina, your testosterone, with black pepper extract to accelerate it as a pill. And we have ashwagandha root gummies as well- Very strong, very powerful- Now in stock at Infowarsstorecom. Go there, experience these great products and others, and fund the Infowars. The only way we fail is not taking action. God bless you. Now please visit Infowarsstorecom and experience these powerful products for yourself. If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance. Let's take a closer look. And again, this is not a defensive TikTok, merely an acknowledgement of what's actually happening in Washington right now. So one of the bills that would ban TikTok is being pushed, as we said, by senators in both parties. It's called the RESTRICT Act. Mark Warner of Virginia and John Thune of South Dakota, Democrat and Republican, introduced this legislation. Now the bill is extensively protecting American national security and ending- quote- foreign adversaries from interfering in our election through apps like TikTok, Because, of course, election interference by Twitter and Facebook is no problem at all, But election interference from TikTok is totally unacceptable. OK, But in reality- and you should know this if you're opposed to TikTok, as we are- this bill isn't really about banning TikTok. It's never about what they say it is. Instead, this bill would give enormous and terrifying new powers to the federal government to punish American citizens and regulate how they communicate with one another. For example, the bill would regulate- quote- certain- transactions between persons in the United States and foreign adversaries. Now what's a foreign adversary and who gets to decide? Oh well, the secretary of commerce and the department in the DNI, not the Congress, get to decide what foreign adversaries are. Well, that ought to trip a switch in your brain. And then the transactions with foreign adversaries would include: quote any acquisition, importation, transfer, installation, dealing in or use of any information and communications technology product or service, including ongoing activities such as mandated services, data transmission, software updates, repairs or the provision of data hosting services. Well, that's pretty broad Under this bill. if you engage in any of that with a so-called foreign adversary, as determined by, in this case, the Biden administration, that would allow the secretary of commerce, Gina Raimondo, and the director of national intelligence, Avril Haines, to decide whether you're acting in the quote interest of a foreign adversary. Again, that's another term that the executive branch of secretary of commerce gets to define without the interference of Congress. So if the Biden administration decides that you're doing this, then the secretary of commerce can then enforce quote any mitigation measure to address any risk arising from any covered transaction with any person or with respect to any property subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. These covered transactions can involve quote current, past or potential future transactions, And the mitigation member measures include, but are not limited to, throwing American citizens in prison for 20 years. Think about that for a minute. So you would be allowing the executive branch, the Biden administration, to regulate speech on the Internet And if you are somehow involved with a quote foreign adversary or, let's say, you oppose the war against Russia, you go to prison for 20 years. So this isn't about banning TikTok. This is about introducing flat out totalitarianism into our system. Now, just because TikTok is so unappealing- because it's a creepy, low IQ Chinese plot designed to make our kids trans And it is- That does not mean that the people trying to ban TikTok have your interests in mind- Oh, it definitely doesn't. Or America's. Keep in mind. these are exactly the same people who drained our strategic petroleum reserve and, in fact, promote China at every turn. Now they're telling you they're against China. They're not. This is not an effort to push back against China. It's part of a strategy to make America much more like China, with the government in charge of what you read and see and with terrifying punitive powers at their fingertips. Now we've seen this before from the national security state again and again confronted with a foreign adversary, for example after 9-11. The federal government uses the opportunity to expand their police powers over the American population, and they do it under false pretext, and they do it quickly, by whipping people into a panic. Now, in a country that's rooted in some truth. TikTok is bad. Sure, Al Qaeda was terrible, Of course, But these measures are not aimed at stopping the foreign threat. They're aimed at controlling the American population. They rush it through, And they do it so quickly that no one ever explains how exactly this has preserved American national security. Now, according to Sandy Cortez- we really quote her- Congress has not even been briefed on any of this Watch. Usually, when the United States is proposing a very major move that has something to do with significant risk to national security, one of the first things that happens is that Congress receives a classified briefing. And I can tell you that Congress has not received a classified briefing. All right, folks, We'll be talking more about this. legislation S-686.. Dr Stella Emanuel's in studio with us. Please stay with us. This is going to be a powerful interview. If Alex Jones runs for president in the Republican Party, he has a chance of winning. If you just tuned in, you may be noticing I'm wearing an Alex Jones for president 2024 shirt. I am not seriously planning to run for president. This is an idea the crew had. I have a triggering shirt, kind of next level. Alex Jones is right. There's Infowarscom in the back. Alex Jones for president 2024 on the front. It's a fundraiser shirt. It's made out of really nice fabric, It's high quality And it is an exclusive shirt to Infowarsstorecom. And when the shirts are gone, they're gone. We're doing one run of Alex Jones for president 2024 shirts And we'll have a historic memento: be able to spread the word, meet a lot of like-minded people and he will be able to keep us on the air. No way, No way. That's a bridge too far. No, it can't be. And I said on national television that he was going to win At Infowarsstorecom. Well, that was an amazing interview with Alex Stein last hour And I think we may top it with Dr Stella Emanuel Drstellamdcom. What an amazing lady, a fellow Texan, And she was one of the first and most outspoken doctors with the different alternative treatments that have saved millions of people. She helped educate President Trump and so many others. Stella Emanuel MD's, successful physician with an active practice in the Houston, as well as the founder of Firepower Ministries in Katy, Texas. She devotes her life and resources to teaching believers everywhere to identify the sources of spiritual weakness, deception and defeat, To learn strategies of warfare to enable them to get and maintain their freedom. Drstellamdcom, And she talks about the spiritual war we're in. She gets made fun of that, But let me tell you, the people running things know that this is a spiritual war And I agree with her that we're entering the end times, world governments being announced global digital currency. They're now announcing AI of mainstream articles to interface with all our computers outside of law to control everything we do. I mean, it is all moving quick. The dam is collapsed. We've gone from beta to operational And I got to tell you behind the scenes- people don't know this- She's been a huge supporter of Infowars. We would not be on air without her. She's been one of those very quiet people behind the scenes That has been an incredible supporter And she is a dynamo treating hundreds of thousands of people and putting them in contact with folks to get treatment during COVID. And her main mission is- I've been asking her for months, she finally had time- is that they're planning a new pandemic, a new fear, a new control. We've got to be ready this time or they can take over using it. So, doctor, I salute you. It's great to see you and your family here. God bless you And just take it away. I'm so honored to be here. I'm very honored to be here. Alex, you've been at this battle. years ago, when you would speak, People thought it was You, were conspiracy theories, but everything has come to pass. Sometimes we don't want to be right, but we end up being right And it's really sad. You know, one of the things I will say is that we are in a battle, we're in a spiritual battle And that is being done physically or medically or politically or anything. And then there's a divide, There's a dichotomy- like the church that know how to fight spiritual battle, They don't have information. And then the patriots that are fighting the battle and know and understand the evil, most of them don't understand warfare. So there has to be a merging of what the church knows in warfare and what the patriots know in information and what's happening. So that's just part of the stuff that we do right now and getting people to be prepared, because these people are not going to stop. They're going to make sure that they're not stopping. They're just bringing one after another. Right now people are still focused on COVID and focused on the job and focused on those that are sick, focused on those that are shedding on other people, But they've moved the battle line We're right now they're looking at. we're looking at FED now, CBDCs- That's where we are right now And people are not ready. We're looking at famine coming- We're in Revelation 6- and people are not ready. So I'm here to tell people: get ready. We cannot wait. We cannot be captured again just without thinking, you know. So people need to be ready physically, They need to be ready spiritually. They need to have food and water, They need to have the medications that they need, They need to be ready for COVID or any other pandemic. So that's kind of what we do. I totally agree, because people think, OK, we had three years of hell, Now let's go out and have some fun. We're just getting a short respite, almost like when you get sucked under by a riptide and you pop back up and get one second of air, where you get sucked back down. I mean you can see them. the UN, the globalists admit: ha ha ha. Our new super virus is about to come out. We'll get control. We'll lock them down again. I mean they are licking their lips. Why is the devil moving so quick right now? The Bible says that he has a short time. It's like he's throwing. he's throwing just about everything at humanity because he has a short time. But, Alex, I do believe that initially they thought they were going to hit us in 2020 and within a few months everybody will be like: get ready to get jabbed and get overtaken. But God, in his infinite mercy, called us out to speak out. like that day on 2020, when I stood in front of the Supreme Court with the American front line doctors, something happened. Out of all the great daughters, you were the very first up there. Yeah, something broke. It was like poof, something broke in the spirit. Humanity ran out. God just showed us mercy and used my voice. that day, When I got up from home- I live in Houston- when I got up, going to DC, I called my family. I said I cannot allow people to die. I cannot see a disease that is treatable- and we treated over 350 patients at that time and just allowed people to die. So I went, I called them, I sat them down, I said I'm going to DC. I might not make it back. If they kill me, so be it. If I perish, I perish. So at the time I stood in front of that day. I was ready to perish if I had to. But God, in his infinite mercy, just wanted to give us a little respite or a little fighting chance. So, because I wasn't afraid, I just went off, crazy off, And of course the Lord took it and spread it all over the world. And I forget, though I saw him in the news about you- The number of people you helped is just astronomical. Yes, we've sent over 100 and something thousand patients now, but people have influenced places that we've sent our protocols all over the world. We've sent our protocols to doctors, like all over the world. You know, recently Medscape did a hit piece on me saying: oh, I have prescribed hundreds and over 100,000 hydroxychloroquine and over 80,000 or so ivermectin. And I just told him I said we have a doctor team that is working and we're not just going to let the American people die. So it's only eternity. that would give a whole idea of what God used us to do. And we're still here making sure. Till today, Alex, people are still dying from COVID, which doesn't make any sense. Every time I hear They're still sending them home, giving them treatment. And I want to speak to that because I see numbers out of Australia, the UK. the numbers are higher than they were two years ago So, and people that are jabbed are getting COVID, two, three, four times, getting it over and over, And it just it's annoying and it just hurts. People are talking, talking, but there's something that we're actually just COVID in particular, We're ignoring early treatment. I tell everybody: get hydroxychloroquine and ivermectin in your medicine cabinet. Don't wait till you're sick, Don't wait till you can't breathe, Don't wait till you're in front of the hospital and then you call me to come and get you. People call me at 3 am. Don't pay money. Can you go? get my father out of the hospital? I can't Sure. Well, I raised this with everybody I have on Dr Peter McCullough, you name it, But I know that you've done a lot of research. Why does Africa have the lowest COVID death rate and the lowest vaccine rate? What was different in Africa? Because even Associated Press admits, why didn't Africa really have COVID? Or what was the difference? Because, I was reading, Africa already knew about hydroxychloroquine and the so-called horse pace. Yes, I guess horse pace. So what happened in Africa when? when the people left Wuhan and seeded COVID all over the world, COVID was seeded into Nigeria at the same time. It's just that when you travel out of any country and you're going to sub-Saharan Africa, they tell you to take anti-malarias. So they are taking anti-malarias, kind of knock the COVID out of their system. And there's a culture we have back home because we live in a malaria endemic area: Once somebody gets a fever, a cough and a cold, they go over the counter, they get malaria medicine. If it's mefloquine, camoquin, flavoquin, any of the queens- And they get anti-malarias and they take it. So they were not trying to treat COVID, They were just trying to treat malaria like everybody does. You get a little fever, you get a little cold, you go get anti-malarias. So that is why the numbers were very But that place sank into those cells, Yes, So that just kind of stopped the thing from spreading like it should, And it just stopped it. You see, most of the deaths that happen in Africa happen in South Africa Because two things: South Africa is not malaria endemic. Number two, you need a prescription to get hydroxychloroquine or ivermectin so people could not get it over the counter. Most of the other parts of Africa, especially in the equatorial area, they have malaria. So of all the therapeutics you promoted, which one is the most powerful in your view? I use hydroxychloroquine and ivermectin. They are equally powerful, They work well both of them And ivermectin on those being all over the world, not just Africa. Yes, it's used. Ivermectin is one of the medicines that WHO called a great medicine for every Miracle, A miracle drug, But suddenly it's no good, Suddenly it's bad and it can kill you. So it's hospice. So there are a lot of People need to understand. I ask doctors and I ask people: if you think these people are not evil, why would they refuse a medicine that can treat people? Well, look at them making fun of it, saying it's a belief system. When didn't the guy that invented ivermectin win the Nobel Prize? Yes, So real. briefly, we're going to break here, Doc, but can we come back? What does ivermectin do? What does hydroxychloroquine do? And then you're telling people: get ready now, Now, get it now. Go to our website, DrStellarMDcom. Get it now. Don't wait until you are sick. I got to tell you my dad was going to die And as soon as I got him ivermectin and stuff, it turned around in hours. Amen, Of course my dad's a tough guy. He didn't tell me He was sick, in bed, about to die for a week. By the time I got there, he was almost dead. His oxygen was down at 90% or even lower. We'll be right back. Stay with us, Dr Stella Emanuel. Alex has been right on for over a decade. This is reality. It just can't help. Truth is stranger than fiction. The revolution of peaceful information is coming and when it comes time, you people are going to be brought into punishment. You're lying to the public. It's disgusting. The media continues to misrepresent what I've said. He may be America's best known conspiracy theorist. Alex Jones has the largest audience in the country, bigger than any of the networks, the biggest megaphone in the country. We're going to get fired up about the real things, the things that matter. Burn in hell. New World Order. I talk a lot about the great successes InfoWars has had. I don't think anybody can deny it, And it is because of listeners and viewers supporting us. When we talk about the crew at InfoWars- people behind the scenes, the researchers, the writers- they really have been the MVPs in this fight. And when you look at Harrison Smith and Owen Schroyer and the hard work they engage in every day- five, six, seven days a week- it's really just incredible. So for myself and the whole InfoWars crew, I thank you for your past support And I want to encourage you now to realize that InfoWars cannot stay on air if you do not support us. I know you spread the word. I know you pray for us. That's wonderful, Keep doing it. But most viewers and listeners never go to infoarsetourcom and you never buy great products that enrich and empower your life All at the same time. keep us on air. I know that less than 1% of our listeners actually go buy products at infoarsetourcom. If just 1% more of you took action and went to infoarsetourcom, our funding problems will be over. Please take action now. There is a war for the future happening right now. There is a war that will control my destiny, your destiny, our children's destiny, And that war is something that we can win, but it takes dedication, It takes commitment. That's why I ask listeners respectfully to go to infoarsetourcom and buy great products that will enrich and empower your life while keeping us on air at the very same time. Go to infoarsetourcom to get a signed or unsigned copy of my book, The Great Reset in the War for the World: Ultimate Bone Broth Back in Stock. Nitric Boost- the amazing CBD oil we have. that's the highest quality you're going to find anywhere at more than half off. It's all available at infoarsetourcom: some of the very best products And a lot of you have never shopped at Infowarsetour. You've been watching for years, you've been listening for years, but you've never taken the step to go to Infowarsetour. These are great products that really work and are amazing. Plus, they keep us on air. So again, please take action. Go to infoarsetourcom today. I thank you. It's hard to believe that we're already going into March 2023 and the world is an insane place. World War Three has already started. Biden is a puppet and is dissolving our borders. There's mass censorship, James O'Keefe has been removed from Project Veritas. The list goes on and on of the bad things that are happening. But the good things that are happening is humanity is really accelerating its awakening, But those of us on the forefront are under more attack by the establishment than ever. That's why I'm counting on you to spread the word about the broadcast, to pray for the broadcast and to keep the broadcast on the air by getting great products at infoarsetourcom- And whether it's a final signed copy- they're almost all sold out- or the great reset in the world for the world, or ultimate bone broth finally back in stock for over two years- it's all available at infoarsetourcom. These are truly amazing products. So get your Info Wars products at infoarsetourcom and enrich your life while keeping the broadcast on the air. It is your decision on whether or not we stay on air, so please take action now. at Info Wars Tour, Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order, it's Alex Jones. Well, she didn't want to talk about this today, but I've been trying to get her on since she was on a few months ago. This lady, without asking behind the scenes, has really been a big supporter and made some big donations to Info Wars, And I know so many people personally that she's helped. She is a prolific medical doctor and you all saw her in the first wave of doctors before all the other big doctors came out, who we love as well, And she devastated them and dominated those press conferences and has served over 100,000 people with what happened when they tried to block the therapeutics, these mass murdering criminals, And so I want you to bring this up, because I get so many calls. we promote a lot of other groups and people will be able to support themselves and be healthy. but I totally agree with you: I can't tell you how many people don't know how to get help, and so I've stockpiled the ivermectin and hydroxychloroquine We're talking. I've probably given out hundreds of bottles of each and I've got them from you and other great folks because if you get them from you it's very inexpensive and high quality. But everybody should go to DrStellaMDcom and, just like you have a fire extinguisher, just like you have a firearm in your house, just like you have gas in your car, food in the refrigerator- everybody needs these things for what's coming, because in the next wave we know there's already shortages of all the major medicines. they are going to try to restrict these, to control us. You just saw the beta test, so spend some time on the literature I asked you to bring here. We can do an overhead shot for TV viewers. What do people need to go to DrStellaMDcom and stock up on so they know it's in their emergency supply, so they can help not just themselves but others. Yeah, we put together. there are several things that we've done. We have the medical and the supplements. We put together because, remember, if something crazy happens and you can't get your medicine- maybe you're on high blood pressure medicine And you know it's coming- you can feel it, you can see it. If you cannot get your medicine, we have put together a bunch of doctors that will give you your basic medical prescriptions. They will give you three months' supply of your medicine and four refills which you can work with your pharmacy to get a year's supply of your medicines, whether it's high blood pressure medicine, diabetes or whatever you're taking. The second thing that we did is that we put together what we call five antibiotics you will need in an emergency. So we work with our doctors. They will look at you, call you will go in and get a telehealth appointment. They will look at your prescriptions, they will look at your drug interactions. We make sure that it's legit, it is legal medically, and then they will look at everything that you have and then they will decide which antibiotics you need. This is not for you to use on a daily basis. So we put five antibiotics: One we put amoxicillin and augmentin- that will treat upper respiratory tract infections. One will treat chest infections. one will treat skin infections, UTI and, of course, GI infections or urinary tract infections. And people- always that aren't doctors- call me and they say: why are you promoting antibiotics for viruses? But then all the top scientists we have on explain: bacteria create the infections and carry the viruses in, right. Yes, and apart from that, even when you get a viral infection, there are usually opportunistic bacteria that come in. For example, if things get crazy, can you get a toothache? What are you going to do? The dentist is not available. there's no way. So what we want to do is, like I said, we look at all the logistics and we look at it legitimately in medicine. So, okay, we can give you five antibiotics you will need in an emergency in your medicine cabinet- It's not for you to take- And it will give you instructions on this antibiotic and how to take it if something crazy happens. The other thing we want to do is COVID complete kit. COVID complete care kit. What will give you? the hydroxychloroquine, ivermectin, Z-Pak, budesonite and a nebulizer. And we give you that COVID complete kit. By the way, I got one of the units for you for like nothing And then friends of mine in North Carolina got paid 10 times more for it. They got gouged by one of the big pharmacies. They paid like $1,000 for a nebulizer when they were all sold out. Oh, our nebulizers are $55.. And guess what You can? actually, we did one that you can use if there's no electricity. you can pluck it to your power bank and be able to use it, So you can use it if there's no electricity, if the grid goes down- And I'm sorry I'm interrupting, please continue. The past year I've just really been working and thinking if things get crazy. I read Revelation. I'm a minister of the gospel and I know what is coming. So I'm like people: get ready, get food, get everything, get your prescription drugs, get your COVID pack, get antibiotics you will need in an emergency. You have to make a doctor's appointment, talk with a doctor, look at your medicines or look at the interactions of the medicines that you're on, and take care of you to suit what it is that you're doing. So they go to the website, they call, they have a consultation, they find out, you get them prepared. Yes, the second thing that we did: we have something on our website: the respiratory care kit. We have a respiratory care kit where you have an oximeter, where you can check your oxygen. You have the nebulizer- that's the one that I said you can use. You can pluck it to a USB port and use it, And then, of course, you can exercise your lungs and even to check your temperature. we have the respiratory care kit And then we have another kit called a pandemic prep kit where we put together supplements that can help you to build your immunity. when you're having COVID, to build your immunity on different viruses. Even when they went crazy about monkey pox, we did what we call sericinia purpure. I don't know what you know about it. It's a supplement that was used by Indians in the days of smallpox and it worked. It's actually- I take all this information on the NIH website. You know what I'm saying. And then we put together another supplement in case we have Ebola and Marburg and stuff like that, And we know they're gearing up Marburg, polio, all of it- And you're just saying: this is real insurance. you better be ready. Yes, we want to give you stuff that you can use to build your immunity. I know you have it. I hope you have it. We also make sure that if we get nuked, you have potassium iodide to protect your thyroid. So we're basically trying to make sure that if something crazy happens and you have to be stuck in your house, you have food, you have water, you have medicine. you have everything that you need to be stuck in your house And it's going to happen. Right now we're dealing with the calm before the storm and I'm just screaming at people. be prepared, be ready. You know about FedNow. they're already working on when they start CBDCs and they said: you cannot buy or sell without a mark. what are you going to do When they crash all your bank accounts and then they hold all your money? what are you going to do? It happened in Nigeria. You know what's happening in Nigeria. For those that don't know, they did an India, Nigeria or the test case for the central bank- digital currencies, cell phones In Nigeria in 2021,. the first thing they did in Nigeria is that they got everybody's phone and said that if you don't go and register your phone, they'll turn off your phone. So everybody had to go register their phone and get an NI number. A few months ago, they told Nigerians that they are changing the naira currency. that election is coming. they don't want people to bribe people and get fraud and everything, so they're changing the color of their naira. So, people, they swept trillions of naira out of the system and when they were done, they printed like one billion naira and everybody in Nigeria right now doesn't have money. They can't access their money. So people are busy And the good news is Nigeria is fighting back though. Yes, even old parents are busy trying to transfer money through the phone. Alex, they destroyed small businesses, people that are just struggling. There are people in Nigeria that would spend $20 and buy something and go sell it for maybe $25 and make a little bit of money. So if you think the tyranny was bad, they admit as soon as the central bank digital currency goes in. they did it in India and Nigeria as a test. Yes, and Nigerians are fighting back, but I don't think the Nigerians truly realize what the battle is. Do you know what I'm saying? Like right now, the vice president. they had an election. of course, The person that won the election, the other one they just installed, or they just declared somebody else a winner, somebody that is old and you know. Hold on, stay there, Doc, because I'm telling you I can feel the Holy Spirit on you, and I'm not just saying that, folks. So some of the gifts we have, I can feel the Holy Spirit. I feel it's so strong. this lady, Amen. Oh, yeah, I can feel it. Love you, We'll be right back. Stay with us. folks, Don't care how you slice it, dice it, flip it up or rub it down. Alex Jones was right. Think about how frustrated we are if you've been awake for a year or two. Imagine being like an Alex Jones or those guys who've been awake for like decades. Alex Jones called this years ago. years ago, Alex Jones never bought the Russia hoax- not for a second. You are one of the great thinkers of this. You are a martyr to the First Amendment. The government fears Alex Jones. That's why the globalists hate me is because I'm exposing their corporate worldwide tyranny. I've got some good news: Our high quality supplements really work and we have about an 80% reorder rate with customers. That's the good news. They're amazing. The bad news is around 1% or a little less of our actual viewers and listeners ever go to Infowarsstorecom and ever actually buy the products. So you're missing out on these products. plus, it funds the Infowar. Think of what we've done with just 1% of our massive audience actually buying products. Think what would happen if those of you on the fence actually went to Infowarsstorecom and got some of these amazing products. I would recommend Turmeric 95 for your joints, your bones, inflammation, to get one of the biggest effects. so you reorder it and see how great it is. Also, we've got the super high quality full spectrum CBD oil that's so good for your neurological systems, your brain, your joints, your bones as well- Or Real Red Pill Plus. Just go, try the product, fund the Infowar and help us defeat the new reorder together. Infowarsstorecom. We now have three new game changing products that are in stock at Infowarsstorecom, and one of our best selling products sold out for over a year that's now back in stock. Our prebiotic does eat any introduction. There's such amazing things for your gut flora, your overall health. What it does is essential. Go read about it at Infowarsstorecom. And now the fourth- toothpaste is on my dad. The last two were big hits. This one is really special. It's turmeric concentrate with a bunch of other essential oils and so much more to take your mouth's health to the next level. We also have high quality ashwagandha root for your libido, your stamina, your testosterone, with black pepper extract to accelerate it as a pill. And we have ashwagandha root gummies as well- Very strong, very powerful- Now in stock at Infowarsstorecom. Go there, experience these great products and others and fund the Infowar. The only way we fail is not taking action. God bless you. Now please visit Infowarsstorecom and experience these powerful products for yourself. So yeah, you say why doesn't Biden address the disasters in the United States? He doesn't care. That's not his job. He's not the president of the United States, He's a puppet operating for the globalists. Appetites of the autocrat cannot be appeased. They must be opposed. Autocrats only understand one word: No, No, No, Exactly. And that's why we say no to your vaccines. We say no to you shutting down our businesses. We say no to you taking our firearms. We say no to you censoring our free speech. We say no to you selling us out to the World Health Organization. We say no to you getting us into World War III. You're right. We stand against autocrats like you, Joe Biden, and we say no And we say no to your war Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones Crashing through the lies and disinformation. it's Alex Jones Again. I'm not bringing up Nigeria because Dr Stella is an expert on what's happening over there. I'm bringing up all the time. China, India and Nigeria are the model for the central bank digital currency. Tucker Carlson's covered it. Nigeria is revolting the hardest. The Italians: they're bringing it in as a beta in Europe. They've been fighting back as well. They're cutting the farmers off in the Netherlands. They're fighting back hard. We've been covering that a lot. So it's Italy, the Netherlands, Nigeria, China, India, Australia is also a big model- And Canada too. It's a lot of globalist countries. but they are really bringing in the central bank digital currency system in Nigeria And the public has been revolting for over a year over it as they saw how horrible it was. But, as you said you're saying, it's a spiritual issue And that's really what this is of total control. Please elaborate on that for us. I think the people in Nigeria don't think it's probably a political thing going on. You know, Alex, they have a group of people called the Young Globalist. They have about 10,000 of them that are trained operatives that are sent into all countries to become the leaders in all countries. So number one, like in Nigeria, the vice president is part of the World Economic Forum. The minister of petroleum, the minister of telecommunication and the minister of finance- they are all part of the World Economic Forum And if everybody's listening to this from Nigeria, just go on the World Economic Forum and Google it, You'll be able to find it. So the main people that run the government, money, finance, telecommunication, petroleum- they are part of the World Economic Forum. So they are building this stuff in Nigeria. Nigerians know that they are fighting something crazy, But I don't know that they understand the death of it. These demons, they have a timeline of 2025 for all countries to be globalized, to be digitalized. You know what I'm saying? So they are using Nigeria right now. They don't care. They've got orders from Satan. Yes, of course they take orders from Satan. They are not even thinking about the fact that it's hurting people, small businesses, people that are just struggling, or mothers that are just struggling to make a little money and get some cassava and go sell. Now they have to deal with getting a phone and learning to transmit money. We have people from Europe and America in Nigeria right now. What they are trying to put together is a system so that people can start being able to transmit money, And that's the key. When a phone might be a quarter year of somebody's salary, who's a farmer? they're making them get that as the control system. Yes, they are making. Most people might just get a flip phone to communicate with their family, But right now they all have to get a smartphone. So Nigeria is fighting back. I just want people back there to realize that this is a deep battle. It's a spiritual battle. These demons want to control everybody. If you read in the book of Revelation, Revelation 13, from verse 16 to 18, says there's going to come a time when all people- men, women, rich, poor, black, white, all nations- are going to come to a time when you cannot buy or sell without using the mark. And you know this. And that's the key. Everybody thinks they're going to be part of the system. No, we're all under attack. We're all under attack. This is a worldwide battle. If you speak to Nigerians, sometimes they think, okay, Nigerians are fighting this by themselves, Cameroonians are fighting it. There's been war in Cameroon. I'm originally from Cameroon. There's been war in Cameroon for years. right now They have a president that has been in power since I was a teenager, since I was like 12.. Our president has been in power And so that one does not even think. Then they go to Nigeria. They pick this terrible guy that can barely reason, And then, of course, we have our own one here in the White House. So they want to bring all these people that can't think, can't reason, don't have any ability to actually run the government, while the shadowy government is running them behind. Of course, Nigeria is the greatest country in Africa. Nigeria is the most populated country in Africa. If they take down Nigeria, they can start now pushing through other countries. But I love the fact that Nigerians are fighting back. They did not get Africa. They did not get them through COVID, because of course, you know we're prayerful- and of course, anti-malaria- I call it Sunday. Well, plus, the Africans have been through it. They don't trust the UN, do they, No? so they should stop. Nigerians should not stop fighting, Should not stop. Go back and look at your leaders. This is one of the things that every country needs to do. Everybody needs to go online. Go on World Economic Forum. Pull their distance. Look at the Young Globalist. There's a whole list of them. It's on their website. Pull it and then make sure that you don't vote this Young Globalist in. Don't give them a place of power. Don't make them principles in your schools. Exactly, Just examine their pedigree. Examine who they are, because they are there to represent Klaus Schwab and the demons that are over him, and Yuval Noah and stuff. They are there to represent it Right now. if you listen to Yuval Noah, Klaus Schwab, they are all sounding as if they've already won humanity. But I want everybody to understand there will be a great reset. They are planning Agenda 3030.. By Agenda 3030, we should all own nothing and be happy, But we're fighting back and humanity needs to continue fighting. They didn't realize that we were going to stand up and fight this much, But there will be a great reset. If you read the book of Revelation to the end, you will realize that the great reset is going to be done by God. So I don't want people to be fearful. I don't want people to think that, oh, everything is going to come down. Exactly, Satan thinks he's winning in the third quarter, but he loses in the end. Yes, he loses And you can't deny. 2,000 years ago, John on the Isle of Patmos has a vision with an angel and it's all happening. It's happening. It's all happening If you read in Daniel, because we have a Twitter space. that we do. I don't trust Twitter, but right now we use it for as much as we use it. Do you understand what I'm saying? We have a Twitter space. we do. reading the book of Daniel and Revelation on Twitter. You can join me on that. My grandfather always told me- and he was a big theologian- is Daniel, and then Old Testament, New Testament. it happens, It's all one book. It's all one book If you look at in the book of Daniel, Daniel, chapter 2, like verse 42,, 41 to 43, it talks about a time is going to come where there will be a mingling of seed, where that they will mingle themselves with the seed of man. So I try to let human beings know that we're fighting Satan, We're fighting people that are not human, And whenever I say that I'm like: oh, Dr Sarah, why would you say something so crazy? You all know I'm saying it- that they are producing bodies that are not human, that are inert, and they're going to take over the world. They've been making clones a long time. They've been making clones for a long time. If you read in Revelation, chapter 13,, verse 14 and 15, it said the devil would deceive the people in the world and they will be able to make images onto the devil. Well, I think Hitler was able to clone rabbits in 44 by the 70s. I covered it when I was on air in the 90s. It was in mainline medical literature that they'd already been cloning humanoids. that are a whole bunch of splice genes. They aren't a person. Then they implant them in women or they use cows and they're rolling them out, giving them identities, and they're everywhere. So right now? So they don't have souls, do they? No, they don't have souls. So what are they? They're like a replicant, right Like Blade Runner. Yes, they are clones. They are Nephilims. In the book of Genesis, the Nephilims, demons, came and slept with women and they produced these hybrids. But right now, they are not doing that. They are just fixing them up in the lab. You know, if you read in Revelation 13,, the Bible says: in Revelation 13,, 14 and 15, it said the devil would deceive the people of the world and they will produce images onto the devil and the devil would give them life, give breath to these images. These images will be able to, Which is a digital image. Yes, It's all super advanced. Yes, So these AIs, they are all around us. The Lord showed me this in 2015, that they were all around us. Alex, I'm a prayer warrior. Every now and then, I blow them up in the Spirit. I want to tell Christians: remember, these are demons, Don't worry about them. at the mention of the name of Jesus, Every knee bows. So sometimes I will be attacked in the Spirit and I will come out and I will call the fire of the Holy Ghost and the blood of Jesus. I command you to blow up and they will blow up. So I want people to realize you can fight these powers by the name of Jesus. Don't be scared. If you're in a situation that you feel comfortable, just call on the name of Jesus and these demons will bow, because that is what happens. But what you're saying is so true because I remember reading, like in MIT Quarterly 30 years ago when I was first about to go on air, that they'd made human animal clones and, like, made babies out of five adults. and they weren't really human. What were they? But don't worry, I got rid of them in the test tube and then I talked to people involved in the government. They said, no, they have given them identities, They've rolled them out, but they're missing something. and there's literally replicants, like the movie Blade Runner. By the time that movie came out in 1984, there were already real replicants. Yes, there's a movie called Sixth Day. Sixth Day by Arnold Schwarzenegger. When he goes out by 10, he comes, they've cloned him and somebody else is in his house. People have to recognize. I mean they can clone anybody. They actually have bodies that they have that when they clone them. remember, Elon Musk said something that with the right sequencing, they can turn anybody into a freaking butterfly, So they can actually clone bodies and then just modify it and splice it and change their look and then they knock the person out. But because it's not a genetic one of humans, under God, it doesn't get a soul. They don't have a soul And because they don't have a soul they do the most evil things. Because they don't have a soul. they don't have a soul. They don't mind going to school. So they're genetically engineered psychopaths. They're genetically engineered psychopaths. Hold on right there. Wow, this is powerful. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a new toothpaste that my dad, a retired dentist and oral surgeon, developed: Dr Jones Natural's Tumor Toothpaste. that just came into stock And I got to tell you. I got samples of this months ago and it is amazing: The way it makes your gums feel. what it does to your mouth is insane. We know turmeric is an antioxidant and anti-inflammatory and does such great things for the body. Then you add that with tea tree oil and a bunch of other essential oils, It is just dynamite. It is so good to detox and attack inflammation in your mouth. I want to challenge everybody to try the new toothpaste at ipfullwarestorecom: Dr Jones Natural's Tumor Toothpaste. And, while you're at it, check out the new Ashwagandha line of products. We have Ashwagandha with black pepper: extract Your libido, your testosterone, in pill form, And we have the pure Ashwagandha root gummies as well, Now available at ipfullwarestorecom. They're amazing products and they fund the info war. Take action now at ipfullwarestorecom. Now, I'm addicted to helping my fellow Americans. I'm addicted to spreading the truth And, again, you know, I have info wars to thank for that. Looking back on the day I was able to ask president Donald Trump two questions. I was so grateful because, you know, I truly was classically trained under Alex Jones and under the info wars team. I really do credit that as to why I'm able to, you know, get these types of clips, because Alex's whole mentality was, you know, go where the story is, go where the mainstream media refuses to. So it's not that I'm addicted to the insanity, I'm just addicted to telling the truth and helping the American people. And I really do credit Alex for, you know, living and spilling that within me early on in my career, Talking to the viewers and listeners that have tuned in many of you for years and never gone to info war storecom. We know the vast, vast, vast, vast majority of you never actually go to info war storecom and never experienced these great products and never found the operation. Sure, You share a link, you share an article, you tell folks about the show. That's great And I thank you, but we need funds to operate. Plus, we've got really great products that do amazing things for people, like our CBD oil and our fizzy magnesium and our sleep aid and our nitric oxide and our real red pill Plus. all of these are really great products. They keep us on air. Plus. you're missing out on having these products. So get off the bench, get in the game, step to the plate and go to info war storecom right now and get these great info wars products at info war storecom for a year or two. Imagine being like an Alex Jones or those guys have been awake for like decades. Alex has been right on for over a decade. This is reality. It just came true. Truth is stranger than fiction. The revolution of peaceful information is coming And when it comes time, you people are going to be brought to punishment. You're lying to the public. It's disgusting. The media continues to misrepresent what I've said. He may be America's best known conspiracy theorist. Alex Jones has the largest audience in the country, bigger than any of the networks, the biggest megaphone in the country. We're going to get fired up about the real thing. the things that matter Burn in hell. New World Order, Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones. Dr Stella Emanuel of drstellamdcom is our guest in studio. We have another special guest coming in next hour. We'll take a little bit of their time. We're going to extend into the next hour. But, doc, I remember, like I said, reading in mainline literature they had human clones in the 70s. And then now you see the headlines: Oh, it's liberal. Five gay men can have a child together. That's five men together. Well, that's not a sperm and an egg, That's not a zygote, That's a new thing. that looks like a person And they're like: oh well, don't be mean, Be liberal, But really they've just set the precedent to create a new creature. They're just using homosexual men as the pretext of like, why would men want to have a baby together? It's not even a baby, A cyborg. We're living in the future. We're living in this, But it's just not been revealed yet to the public. Please continue. You know, in 2011, we did a 100 Day Prayer program. At the end of the 100 Day Prayer, I had a dream. God speaks to me in prophetic dreams. I had a dream and I had these people come into my room and they were fighting. They came into my compound And I was fighting and beating them up And at the same: stop, you can't kill us. We're genetically modified human beings. There are a lot of us everywhere. It is not our time. When it's our time, we would manifest. So, and then, a few years, a year later, I had another dream. I saw people walking around. Some were humans, Some were non-humans. The non-humans did not recognize that they were working with people that were not humans. They were swimming in the swimming pool with, you know, mermaids, And they didn't recognize it. but I could see them. And since I had that dream, I've traveled all over the world. I've discerned these people, these creatures, everywhere. So if you see some kind of great evil going on in our land, I'm going to fix your piece. Keep talking. Yes, if you see like a great evil going on in our land where they are trying to, you know, maybe they are trying to abort babies at birth, or they are trying to take our three-year-olds and show them drag queens so that by the time they are 7-8, they have been, you know, indoctrinated and now they are possessed by this demon. If you see all this evil going on killing people and not caring, remember that there are people among us that are not human And, by the way, when we talk about possessed, it's now science, It's a wavelength, It's an energy. Like you go to a football pep rally or a rock concert, you feel the energy. You're a church, You feel a different energy. They're literally putting children in this energy. Yes, You see, everything in life is spiritual, Alex. Everything is spiritual. So people don't realize the people that live their lives like: oh, this is all there is to life. you're really very mistaken. It's either evil or good. So you're either going to serve God or the devil. So you've got to point your spiritual antenna at something. Yes, You've got to decide. Human beings are not independent. We are coming to a time when people are going to decide whether they want God or the devil. You can't? well, I don't care, I don't believe You. the devil You will believe. Yes, The devil will get you. So what is happening right now is that there are people, that they are creatures. In Genesis, chapter six, the Nephilims look like thirty-four giants. You could see them and know, But right now they didn't have to go through all that. The people, the Nephilims in our time, look like you and I. The Bible says in the book of Matthew that in the last days is going to be like in the days of Noah, where people will be marrying and giving to married or be corruption. You understand what I'm saying. So we are in that time and the church need to wake up, because it is a church that understands this and can fight it. But most of our big churches have been captured by. they've been captured and they are just dancing and singing. Well, I'm just going to say this. I've been in DC a lot and the first time I ever saw one of these things, I was walking down the street- and I'll admit I don't get scared of people, but I had this- my heart like pounded and I saw this big white man who looked like he was like almost seven feet tall, He had like pointed ears, bald head and he looked at me and I was like that's not a human, He looked like a demon. and then he got in like a fancy limousine and drove off and my crew was like, are you okay? And I, literally, when I saw the guy, like twenty feet away, I saw him. and I'm not just the book, just happened. and it's only been in DC. I've seen it a few times- where, like you see people and you know instantly that's not a person, Your gut goes, whoa, that is not, that is bad. Oh, if I saw them, I would rebuke them, I would release Holy Ghost fire and bind them. You know, I would not just let them walk past. I'm like, hey, come here, you human, the fire of the Holy Ghost. Well, I'm just being honest because I didn't expect it. But I'm a warrior, so it's different, I'm a spiritual sniper. Well, I'm just saying I didn't expect it because I've seen people in DC that you instantly, as a person, you picked something and you're going to be like, whoa, what the hell is that? What the hell is that? That's not normal, That's not human. yes, And the issue is this: demons around and what they do. they kind of program the minds of people. The Bible says in 2 Corinthians 4, that the devil, that's the God of this world, has taken over people's minds. So they program the minds of people. So people are like in this zoomed out world. they don't believe anything bad is happening and they're just sitting down and hoping all will be well If they say: go left, they go left, go right, they go right. But people are waking up. People are waking up to something crazy is going on. You should wake up to not just something crazy is going on. you should wake up on this as demonic. So do you think I saw a clone or what do you think I saw? Probably one of them. Nephilims, Probably one of them. I see them around sometimes, But I'm like I'm a warrior. I release fire, Alex, I would say it goes fire. If Satan had his way, what would the earth look like? What he's trying to do right now is to have his way. What he wants to do is corrupt all humanity so that if we can all gather together and say we don't want God, then he can keep this world. But Satan knows the end of the battle. You know, right now, when they get crazy and said they're not going to make sure that you can buy or sell and push us to the corner, God will rapture the church out. But God will prepare the church and bring revival before he raptures the church out. When the church is raptured out. Satan and his cohorts, God will deal with them. The wrath of God is going to come upon them and they know that this is what is going to happen. They know their time is short. They know it, so that is why they are trying. They are hitting humanity, hitting our children, families, with just everything that they have. The word of God says Satan has come with great wrath because he knows his time is short. So I want to tell everybody that's listening to me: if you've not given your life to Jesus, you better call on Jesus, because at the end of the day it's going to be a battle between the devil and Jesus. You don't listen to me if craziness happens just by screaming Jesus, because the Bible says anyone that calls on the name of Jesus shall be saved. That is our way out. We have a 30-day prayer program coming on. We want to get together. bring pastors, get together, cry out to God, not because we want to change the course of the matter. We want to make sure that people's minds open, people know the truth and people can fight back and be victorious. Well, it's not hard now, because people really get it's good versus evil. now. It's going to get so obvious, isn't it? And when they do, they will look for a way out. They'll be looking for a way out. That is why I tell Christians: share Jesus with everybody. When it gets crazy, they will remember what you told them. Just sow this seed. tell them: give your life to Christ, turn to Jesus, leave this witchcraft that you're doing and turn to Jesus. When things get crazy, because you see all these low-class apprentice witches, they think that Satan is. oh, we got this unto. they will see the devil, they will see real evil and they will realize: oh my God, maybe I shouldn't have been following Satan. And they are useful idiots. If you're a human being and you're walking with the devil, you're a useful idiot. Exactly, they pretend like they're on a winning team. The devil's going to destroy them. He's going to destroy them. You cannot possibly. the devil hates all human beings, Hates with perfect hatred. Why does God hate humans? We're made in the image of God. That God hates the devil? No, no. why does the devil hate us? Because we're made in the image of God. He hates us because God loves us. He hates us because we have a chance to repent and get forgiveness. He doesn't. He has already been condemned. We know his end. He's going to end up in the lake of fire. So he's a loser and wants to claw us down with him. He wants to take as many people as possible, kill them before they give their life to Christ, destroy them before they have the strength to stand before the revival comes and opens the minds of people. He wants to take as many people as possible with him to the lake of fire. But we know where his end is. That's why I tell people: give your life to Christ, read the Bible, know God and stand, Stand and rebuke these demons. If many more Christians were rebuking these demons, they will crawl into the abyss where they were created. Wow, it's going to be spectacular, Because people can really see evil as like running rampant right now. Yes, but God is strong. God is doing a lot of work, but people have to turn to God. You see, Alex, the atmosphere, the reason why, you see, a lot of people are weak in their faith. people are living in sin, living in iniquity, doing things that are not, because when you're living in sin and iniquity, you're basically giving the devil a right to harass your life. But the reason that is happening is because there's layers and layers of darkness from all this demonic stuff And there's years and years of doctrinal programming that has programmed the church to be weak. So the church has to wake up and be strong. People have to wake up and say: listen, God is not going to judge you based on what your pastor taught you. it's going to be based on the Word of God. Christians have to get back to the Word of God, get back to studying the Bible, get back to being strong spiritually. ask the Holy Spirit to strengthen you, ask the Holy Spirit to draw you into His Word, because you are the people that are supposed to be light. we are the light of the world. we are the ones that are supposed to fight this battle against evil. The patriots need to get discipled really to Christ, because right now a lot of patriots they are coming to it's good versus evil they are coming to we want God, but there's no discipleship. So there's a lot of mingling and a lot of stuff, a lot of new age stuff being mingled, like the devil usually do. So we need people to get back to the Bible and disciple those that are coming to Christ and know that it is time. this is going to be an amazing battle. Those that know they are God, they will be strong and they will do exploits. And then be ready. be physically ready, spiritually ready, financially ready. get your money out of the banking system because it's going to crash. DrStellaMDcom, Do five more minutes with us, stay with us. Please pray for us. now more than ever, spread the word about the broadcast and get great products to keep us on air and fund our operation, while at the same time enriching your life. Now we've got three new products available at Infowarsstorecom and a best seller back at stock. We have the amazing Dr Jones Naturals turmeric toothpaste. that's so much more. Find out more at Infowarsstorecom. We have the ashwagandha root pills with black powder extract to accelerate your libido, stamina, testosterone. We have pure ashwagandha gummies at Infowarsstorecom as well. These are all the highest quality products. The prebiotic is now finally back at stock. They're all there at Infowarsstorecom. so please take action now. Enrich your life, empower your body and keep us on air. Please take action now. Infowarsstorecom: I'm a huge believer in information. I watch Infowars every day and follow Alex Jones closely. You know why. He can put you ahead of the curve And he's been demonized as a conspiracy theorist. Think about how frustrated we are. if you've been awake for a year or two, Imagine being like an Alex Jones or those guys who've been awake for like decades. Alex has been right on for over a decade. This is reality. It just pancakes. Truth is stranger than fiction. The revolution of peaceful information is coming and when it comes time, you people are going to be brought to punishment. You're lying to the public. It's disgusting. The media continues to misrepresent what I've said. He may be America's best-known conspiracy theorist. Alex Jones has the largest audience in the country, bigger than any of the networks, the biggest megaphone in the country. We're going to get fired up about the real things, the things that matter. Burn in hell. New World Order. Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones. The New World Order, Dr Stella, your take on S686.. It's not taking over TikTok. It says it takes over all your devices in your house and controls everything you do. I get TikTok's got problems, but their answer to TikTok is something a thousand times worse. Yes, so what they are trying to do is be able to monitor everybody. One- I think it was the ex-wife of Elon Musk- said we're going to be techno-human, you know homo-techno. So they want to make sure that, with our phones and everything that they are able to monitor us. This is about control. This is about a digital dictatorship, and we need to rise up. You know it's a digital dictatorship. they are trying to put together, From our phones, everything in our houses right now is smart, this, smart that, And I love how they used one threat to make something way worse. Yeah, like they did with FTX, They knocked down FTX and then banks are coming down and then they're using the banks to bring in Fentanyl. So when one bad thing is happening, you know, during the time they were threatening President Trump, we're all focused on President Trump. and then Fentanyl comes in. Wow, Fentanyl's killed a lot of folks. Fed now, Fed now, yeah, Yes, Fentanyl, the digital currency that every bank has to have it up by July in America. Yeah, you're talking about the whole central bank digital currency. yeah, So everybody's- just people- will be prepared. go home, you know, get together, buy an acre somewhere, and you know, and get together and build communities where you can. Boy, won't it be the people that have flooded the country? They're going to be a smart one soon. So people that are in the countries who survive, people that have learned to be in a situation where they can survive without like some of the amenities that we have, that we take for granted. So you know, everybody needs to be prepared. You know, get into communities. If you have an acre somewhere or somebody has a farm, you guys get into. learn to farm. grow your own food. get chicken, get cows, get whatever you can get now. Stock up food, stock up water. get a charcoal grill. If there's no electricity, you can cook with a charcoal grill. You can use it to heat up your house. Get solar. If we don't have solar, make sure you have a small generator to charge your batteries. People just need to be ready and have a mindset. Get your money out of the house, A mindset that the old system's coming down. Yes, it's coming down This system. you see, in Revelation, chapter 14, angels do a few things. One of the things that the angels do in Revelation 14 is tell people that the Babylonian system is about to be destroyed. So we need to make sure that Falls in one hour, Yes, in one hour. Only a computer can fall in one hour. I know, right, Babylon, I know, Yeah. so we have to be prepared And we have to be prepared medically. If you're on insulin, you can go to Walmart and buy regular insulin and just stock up in your house in case things get really bad and get your prescription. So we did a few things. We have medical prescriptions. We have medical prescriptions where you can get your generic drugs. We're working with some pharmaceutical companies and the doctors so that they can give you your generic drugs. You can get at least one year supply of your medicine. We have the COVID Care Complete where you have hydroxychloroquine, ivermectin, butesenite and you have a nebulizer with it, and Z-Pak. If you get COVID, it gives you everything that you can do step by step. We review your medical records before we do this. And then we also have the- we call it medical preparedness basic. What are the five antibiotics you will need if there's an emergency? You need something for the upper respiratory, which is sore throat, amoxicillin For sore throat, tooth infection and everything. You need an eye drop. You need something for your GI tract- flagial. You need something for your chest infections, like Z-Pak. You need Bactrim that can both work for urinary tract infection and skin infections. So people need to have that mindset that if something happens and I cannot get out of my house. what do we do? So? that is why, if you go on our website, drsalaemdcom, we have acute care. now too- though I didn't talk about that- We have acute care. Initially we were just doing COVID care, but right now we have acute care. We have doctors that are going to see you for other things apart from just COVID. you know: cough, runny nose, sore throat. There are many people that are kind of scared to go to the doctors. It's not everything we can do via telemedicine, but the lot that we can do via telemedicine. if you go on our website right now- And that was something Trump did- was legalizing telemedicine, Yes, but he didn't legalize telemedicine around the whole country, but we can actually. we have doctors that are licensed in all states that will actually take care of the patients. All right, Dr Sella Emmanuel, thank you for coming to the studio And tell you what, if you use Alex promo code Alex on our website, you can help fund InfoWars and also give people a discount. I forgot to mention that Promo code Alex, Dr SellaMDcom- Alex on our website. yes, So we're just here to make sure that people are ready. You've been a big supporter. We really appreciate you. We'll hand the baton to the next guest, but I want you to spend a few minutes on that when we come back. We'll be right back in one minute. Ladies and gentlemen, InfoWars has proven itself the last 28 years to be over the globalist target and having the biggest effect out there against those tyrants, And we fund our operation with viewers and listeners' support, while selling you great products at the same time. So I want to thank all the viewers and listeners who have supported us over the years by spreading the word, praying for the broadcast and buying product. But I really want to encourage those of you that have been on the fence and have never actually gone to InfoWarsStorecom to go there and get the great books and films and supplements and survival gear that's there that won't just empower you and enrich your life but again will keep this broadcast transmitting. So whether it's Real Red Pill Plus or our super high-quality CBD oil, or the 50% Off, or our great Physium Magnesium product, or whether it's counting out our great Sleep Bay that's back in stock, it's all there. Our turmeric 95%- humanoid- strongest out there- turmeric 95. It's all available at InfoWarsStorecom and it keeps us on the air. So make the decision to enrich your life and keep us on air. InfoWarsStorecom. The Korea Sea is about to take over from Australia, But I had totally forgotten that Dr Stella Emanuel had talked about what she did two months ago, where she said: for the next week, I'm going to donate the proceeds of any profit to InfoWars. It was a giant donation. that really took us over the top. We would actually have been in the black, in the red if she hadn't have done that. She pushed us into the black. Well, what a great lady. But I was promoting her just because she was one of the first doctors to go public with therapeutics and has now served over 100,000 people, DrStellaMDcom. But you got cut off on the last break before we hand the baton to Maria Z talking about all the great things you've got. People have got to get ready And if they use promo code Alex, they get a discount And then you're actually going to sponsor us. So I hadn't even really thought about that. Thanks for that offer. You told me before the show started and I just didn't even think about it. but thank you. Yeah, so we want to make sure that if people can't go on our website, like I said, we even do detox. We have detox for the spike protein, whether people are having COVID lung symptoms or they got jabbed and they need to repent. We have that. We have medication for people so that you can get your regular prescriptions. We do acute care, where you can see doctors. for other things. We have personal prescriptions. We have all kinds of things on our website to be prepared. We have a plandemic prep pack. So I'm saying that if you go on our website, use promo code Alex, and they will donate a good process of it. Usually we just, whatever you do, we're going to make sure that we donate a good bit to keep this show on air. You know, Alex, you've really been fighting this battle and we need to support you. period, That's what I think. So go on our website, support what we're doing and then we're going to give. we're going to make sure that we give some major proceeds to Alex to keep him on air, make sure that he keeps talking and keeps educating everyone. Well, you've been a great supporter without me asking. You're on as a guest and you just did like a five-minute plug and we got massive support, so thank you so much. Plus, people need all of this to help themselves, help their families. So recap, some of the great products you've got at drcellamdcom. Yeah, we have the acute care. if you want to see a doctor in all 50 states- Remember all 50 states, pharmacists in all 50 states. We have COVID Care Complete, where you can get all the things you need for COVID, Ivermectin, hydroxychloroquine, butesanide and anabolizer and Z-Pak. We have the Medica preparedness, like what are the five antibiotics you will need in an emergency And, by the way, the lowest prices I've found anywhere. Yes, of course I talk with my pharmacists, Like right now. we have genetic drug lists where we can help people get generic drugs for up to a year for the medicines they are already using. And if you go on our marketplace, we have what we call the Plandemic Prep Pack. You know, we have detox for vaccines. We have a lot of things. We have detox to help people deal with the spike protein And we have all kinds of things we have prepared. We have all kinds of immune support against Ebola, against COVID, against Spox, against all kinds of things. So, yeah, Whatever they might throw at us, Dr Stella, MDcom or StellaMDcom, And the phone number is on the website as well. Doctor, thank you. It's great to meet your family. Thank you for coming in And congratulations on being a trailblazer. In closing, how vindicated do you? I know you don't care about vindication, but, man, everything you said three years ago turned out to be true About the therapeutics, all of it. We've all been proven. right Now, it's all out in the open. We can't just now go: okay, we're right, move on. We've got to hammer the fact that globalists were lying- Yes, they were lying- And we've got to hammer the fact that it's not over Right now. it's just the calm before the storm. And, Alex, I wish I was wrong And I'm sure you wish that too. Sometimes we wish all the things we said was wrong. But remember we are still in a battle. Be prepared for your family, Give your life to Christ. At the end of the day, it's good versus evil. If anything hits you and you don't remember anything, call on the name of Jesus and you'll be successful, Because it's an energetic spiritual choice of I choose God, I choose Christ. You win. right there, folks, You are an energetic, real spiritual creature. that's eternal. You've got to decide who you're with. Yes, who we're with. We have a ranch in Patterson. You go on our website. You go on that Bethel Ranch. We have a 30-day prayer program coming. Christians are invited to come pray- Not witches, just Christians. They are invited to come pray and to just seek God and grow spiritually so that they can go back into the battle. It's like a retreat And people stay there for free. We don't charge anything. Beautiful, I might come to that. When is that? From the 1st to the 30th, From the 1st of April to the 30th of April- 30 days. we have ministers coming from all over the world and people are going to come and pray and just get empowered spiritually. You know, sometimes you fight and you're drained. You need to be empowered spiritually, You need to be refreshed and refilled so you can go back into the battle. And it's of no cost. You know we have housing and people stay for free. You're a beautiful person. I can feel the Holy Spirit. Thank you, Dr Stella Emanuel. DrStellaMDcom. God bless you and thank you. Thank you, Alex. Oh, my pleasure. Thank you so much. All right, the guest host, Maria Z, who does a great job from the land down under, takes over now. Thank you so much, Alex. What a powerful, powerful segment with Alex and Dr Stella Emanuel. Wow, I am blown away. Dr Stella is absolutely right And I say this unashamedly: The answer to the world's problems is, and always has been, Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior. God bless Dr Stella for her generosity and her support of Infowars and all of the supporters of this broadcast. It is so amazing to see all of the freedom-loving people in the world coming together like this and supporting one another, And I just see such a courage in people like Alex and Dr Stella and everyone on the right side of freedom, who, by the way, all share the same character: honesty, integrity, unashamed love of God. Great. Don't ever be ashamed of that. Generosity, love of humanity. this is something that they can never take away from us and they can never crush our will, as long as we never let the tyrants rule our mind, And that is the battlefield, And it's important that we understand that. So the attacks are coming thick and fast right now. I think that's undeniable and everyone can see it. I plan to talk about one thing today, and since then, 50 things have come up, and it is by design this way. I recently interviewed Michael Yon. I know Alex had him on recently and I've spoken about that interview, but something he said with me on information warfare has stuck with me ever since, which is that they will try to confuse you. They will try to get you arguing over statistics and send you in this constant loop of them denying things that are just staring us in the face. And the reality it boils down to this: these people are criminals and they need to be held accountable for the crimes that they have committed against humanity. And as much as they want to sweep the last three years under the rug, we're not going to let them. we are going to hold these people accountable. But I do wanna raise this story before I take any calls today- and we are gonna be taking calls because I think it's important for people to keep coming together and sharing ideas- and I wanna hear from as many people as possible in the rest of this hour because I don't have all of the answers. But this first story, the purpose of this, isn't to talk about me. This certainly isn't about me. It's about absolutely everyone and it ties in with what Alex was talking about earlier, about this new legislation being proposed in the United States. So for those who don't know, recently 60 Minutes did this hit piece where they were basically labeling Christians and anyone who disagrees with the government as domestic terrorists. I was featured in that hit piece and I was subsequently, very coincidentally, de-banked around that time by ING Bank, who has ties to the World Economic Forum and certainly the World Economic Forum hates people like us that tell you the truth about what's really going on in this world. So I can't confirm whether that was the reason for my de-banking, but it certainly is coincidental the timing of all of these things. But what it has shown me- and interestingly, a lot of people spoke out and the response that I had was that this is happening to a lot more people than people realize. Even people in my comments, people with a public social media presence, have said: look, this happened to me. I didn't speak out about it because I was afraid to, And I think people are concerned and I even had those concerns. Maybe people will think I've done something wrong here. It just came out recently that Trudeau actually planned- the government planned- to de-bank the truckers before they even enacted the Emergencies Act. So the punishment for people speaking out is: we're witnessing this in real time now and people shouldn't be afraid to speak about it. People should be open about this because the more that regular people realize that this is their future if they disagree with the government, the more likely they are to join us. We may not agree on the injections, We may not agree on the fact that they're a bioweapon, but we'll certainly agree on the fact that if I don't like what the government says, I don't want to be de-banked or I don't want to be switched off from society. So in the next segment I'm going to go on a little bit more about this and then we're going to take some calls. Stay with us, We'll be right back. This is really, really important for all people around the world. Thousands of former Nazis went to work for the United States government. A flying disk has been found and is now in the possession of the army. Here is a bulletin from CBS News: President Kennedy has been shot. This is a different kind of war. The USS Liberty had just been attacked by Israeli jets and computer hurt. The CIA could manipulate the news. in the United States, They took the babies out of ATVs and left the children to die. on the Cold War, It was almost as if it were a planned inflection. It just tanked him. We need to go into the Capitol. Set, Set, Set. We will always have conspiracy theories. They are nothing but distractions. You guys censored Harvard educated doctors. You silenced those voices. What we want to do in Davos is push the reset button. As soon as we start exposing the great reset, the sooner these globalists start going to prison. President, If Alex Jones runs for president in the Republican Party, he has a chance of winning. If you just tuned in, you may be noticing I'm wearing an Alex Jones for president 2024 shirt. I am not seriously planning to run for president. This is an idea the crew had. I have a triggering shirt, kind of next level. Alex Jones is right. There's Infowarscom in the back, Alex Jones for president 2024 on the front. It's a fundraiser shirt. It's made out of really nice fabric, It's high quality And it is an exclusive shirt to Infowarsstorecom. And when the shirts are gone, they're gone. We're doing one run of Alex Jones for president 2024 shirts And we'll have a historic memento: be able to spread the word, meet a lot of like-minded people and you'll be able to keep us on the air. No way, No way. That's a bridge too far. No, it can't be. And I said on national television that he was going to win At Infowarsstorecom. We now have three new game-changing products that are in stock at Infowarsstorecom And one of our best selling products sold out for over a year. that's now back in stock. Our Prebiotic does any introduction to such amazing things: your gut flora, your overall health. What it does is essential, but read about it at Infowarsstorecom. And now the fourth toothpaste designed by my dad. the last two were big hits. This one is really special. It's turmeric concentrate with a bunch of other essential oils and so much more to take your mouth's health to the next level. We also have high-quality ashwagandha root for your libido, your stamina, your testosterone, with black pepper extract to accelerate it as a pill. And we have ashwagandha root gummies as well. Very strong, very powerful. Now in stock at Infowarsstorecom. Go there, experience these great products and others and fund the Infowars. The only way we fail is not taking action. God bless you Now. please visit Infowarsstorecom and experience these powerful products for yourself. If Alex Jones runs for president in the Republican Party, he has a chance of winning. If you just tuned in, you may be noticing I'm wearing an Alex Jones for president 2024 shirt. I am not seriously planning to run for president. This is an idea. the crew had to have a triggering shirt, kind of next level. Alex Jones was right. There's Infowarscom in the back, Alex Jones for president 2024 on the front. It's a fundraiser shirt. It's made out of really nice fabric, It's high quality and it is a exclusive shirt to Infowarsstorecom. And when the shirts are gone, they're gone. We're doing one run of Alex Jones for president 2024 shirts and we'll have a historic memento: be able to spread the word, meet a lot of like-minded people and he will be able to keep us on the air. No way, No way. That's a bridge too far. That's no, it can't be. And I said on national television that he was going to win At Infowarsstorecom, Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones. Welcome back to the Alex Jones Show. I'm your guest host, Maria Z. Very soon I'm going to be taking some calls. We really want to hear from people on these issues, So the number for that is 877-789-2539.. That's 877-789-2539.. Taking calls really shortly. But first I want to say this new legislation that Alex was talking about, the RESTRICT Act, is so alarming and it ties in with what I'm talking about, because it is about criminalizing everyone in society who doesn't agree with the government. I interviewed a military veteran from Canada some time ago, Jeremy McKenzie. I know- Alex, I think, has had him on as well. He was de-banked and it was for his political views, And he issued a very stark warning at the time. He said: if they can do it to me, they can do it to you. And you just heard that ad in between segments saying that they really are attacking those on the front line, and that is 100% true. They would love to scare people into silence and submission through these types of attacks, and yet it's having the opposite effect. We are growing in our resolve to tell the truth and win this war once and for all, And so it really is, while they are preparing for this social credit system and scaring people into submission and effectively canceling you out of society, which they started with the censorship. they started with pulling people off social media, canceling you from the public square, then it went to de-banking people that dare to protest, and now we're looking at legislation which is potentially going to imprison people for up to 20 years. This is serious stuff, guys. This is full-blown totalitarianism. You don't get to disagree, And the same Jeremy McKenzie that I'm talking about said something so important to me, which was that you may agree with everything that the government's doing right now, but in five years' time, you, or even your child, may not agree, but by then it'll be too late, because all of these things are set in motion. There are people in society that think it's great that the government's putting more checks and measures in place to make sure that they control terrorists or whatever They want to call people that fight for truth, But in five years' time, you may think that something that they do is really not in alignment with your values, and yet by then you won't be able to do anything. In fact, you may be the next one that's imprisoned for 20 years. It's all in preparation for this social credit system where you are guilty until you're proven innocent. Prove you're not sick, Prove that you can be trusted. This zero-trust internet system that they're setting up is essentially: you have to prove that you're innocent through your compliance. It's completely the opposite of how society is supposed to function in a healthy way, and they're doing this. These attacks are coming through politics, legislation, health, data, privacy, religion, relentless attacks, And I can understand how people become overwhelmed by this, but this is why it's so crucial to zero in on the actual problem here and to understand the nature of war, And it is war, It is. It's very important, and I know that Alex recently had General Flynn on here as well talking about this. You are at war, And I was recently- not recently, some time ago- given advice by Dr Pete Chambers, a former Green Beret surgeon, who said, when you are at war, you have to consider the worst possible outcome and have contingency plans for all of that. And so it's really really important that we do that, that we consider the worst possible outcome. understand the nature of this war, which is an attack on your freedom of communication, not just your freedom of speech, now, your freedom of communication. with this legislation, They're trying to make a self-censor where we don't even want to talk about the facts. This is Infowars. I don't need to tell you what repercussions platforms like Infowars have faced for just telling the truth, And people are making this shooting, for example, which is a tragedy, a tragedy. They're making it about the fact that this person is being misgendered in the media. I mean, we don't even offer our children the same sort of security that we offer banks. Banks have armed guards and security, And if you see the motorcade that's following Barack Obama around Australia these past few days, you'll be shocked. And yet, when we talk about the important issues following this shooting, the mainstream media and people on Twitter are more concerned about the fact that they've been misgendered rather than the fact that a shooter has killed innocent adults and children in cold blood. I mean, what sort of MK ultra madness is this? But let me tell you, the biggest threat to their lies and their attacks is the truth, And it all boils down to this: Humanity is under attack, We are at war, Our health and our very lives are under attack, And perhaps the most egregious of these attacks is the attack on free thought. The devil wants to control our thought and our will, and God gives us free will, And they can never take that away. We really are the defenders of free will. I want to hear what people have to say. We're going to go to Brad from, I think, Pennsylvania. Brad, you're on the air. Hey Maria, thanks for taking my call. Yes, Pennsylvania is where I'm at, And can you tell me repeat what legislation you're talking about exactly This is? I don't know the exact name, but my understanding is this is the RESTRICT Act and this is what they're trying to implement under the guise of protecting people from TikTok and Chinese spies. But really what it is is being able to restrict people's communication and criminalize them for their communication if they dare disagree with the government, And it'll be, you know, potentially pinned on them. having communicating with foreign adversaries and things of this nature. I mean, it's so dangerous. Yeah, you especially. it's especially sensitive to you, I'm sure, since the role you're playing in Australia and how strict Australia already is. I mean, you guys are one of the countries that are under. in my opinion, we're all under, we're all in the world government. now The United Nations is basically working behind the scenes as a world government. We just haven't been let in on the secret yet, all the countries. But that's why they took out Trump, That's why Macron wins, even though he probably wasn't elected, And Germany. that's how they elect their leaders. Even they're selected. They're not. we're not electing these people, They're just we're being told who won because we're under one world government. That's my opinion And you're right. This is the communication is going to be restricted. next And it's horrible, Right, It's Senate Bill 686, I believe In the United States, Yes, Interesting, Yeah, And people don't pay enough attention to this legislation. The bill is being proposed, Correct. So the media frenzy is that we need to ban TikTok because it's dangerous to our youth. You know, it's something that's super virtuous, But in reality, the solution that's being proposed is something that could see regular people in prison for up to 20 years for disagreeing with the government. I mean, it's so insidious And this is the nature of everything that they do. And you're right, It is the new world order government in full force, displaying to us that obey us or else. And so people do need to pay more attention, And regular people, and this is why I say, Brad, this is something that impacts regular people. We may not agree on the COVID injections, We may not agree on Bill Gates being a psychopath, But we surely, regardless of what part, what side of the political spectrum you're on, we would surely agree that imprisoning citizens for up to 20 years for having free thought is a danger to every single one of us. Amen, Maria, You're preaching to the choir And thank you for your sense of urgency and pushing this information out there. You're exactly right. I mean, they're hitting us from so many different angles that it confuses everyone on a daily basis, which is why, with this obfuscation and different tricks they pull, that they're able to get this stuff passed. It's really evil And thank you very much for pushing this out. You're absolutely right, Brad. Thank you so much for your call. We'll go to Al in Michigan. Al, you're on the air. Oh, we're going to break. We'll be right back with Al. We now have three new game-changing products that are in stock at mfoolworthstorecom. And one of our best-selling products sold out for over a year, that's now back in stock- Our prebiotic does-eat-any-introduction, with such amazing things for your gut flora, your overall health. What it does is essential, but read about it at mfoolworthstorecom. And now the fourth: toothpaste designed by my dad. the last two were big hits. This one is really special. It's turmeric concentrate with a bunch of other essential oils and so much more to take your mouth's health to the next level. We also have high-quality ashwagandha root for your libido, your stamina, your testosterone, with black pepper extract to accelerate it as a pill. And we have ashwagandha root gummies as well- Very strong, very powerful- Now in stock at mfoolworthstorecom. Go there, experience these great products and others, and fund the InfoWar. The only way we fail is not taking action. God bless you. Now. please visit mfoolworthstorecom and experience these powerful products for yourself. The most banned man in America. Alex Jones, I want you all to know something: Alex Jones was right. Alex is right about far more than is wrong. Alex has been right on toward over a decade. I don't care how you slice it, dice it, flip it up or rub it down. Alex Jones was right. Think about how frustrated we are if you've been awake for a year or two. Imagine being like an Alex Jones or those guys who've been awake for like decades. Alex Jones called this years ago, years ago. Alex Jones never bought the Russia hoax- not for a second. You are one of the great thinkers of this. You are a martyr to the First Amendment. The government fears Alex Jones. That's why the globalists hate me is because I'm exposing their corporate worldwide tyranny. Ladies and gentlemen, this book, The Great Reset in the War for the World, is a historic book that documents the globalists, in their own words, plan for our future. that is a hellish future. Now you'll be always, while they sell out books- I guess they're starting to ban them- be able to get an unsigned copy of The Great Reset in the War for the World at bookstores, Amazon or Infowarswarcom, But you will never be able to get another signed copy of the book after the signed copies. we got run out And there's about a thousand left of them right now. So get your copy of The Great Reset and The War for the World, a signed copy- at Infowarswarcom- And there is a markup there- because this is a fundraiser to keep us on the air- So you won't just have this historic memento and this powerful book, You'll also know that you help keep Infowars on the air. I'm going to thank those of you that have gotten signed copies of the book or unsigned copies, But I want to encourage all of you who haven't yet to go to Infowarswarcom and get a signed copy and buy a couple of unsigned copies and donate to the library or give them to the local school. This is an Infowar. I'm counting on you and thank you for your support. The fight against the New World Order is now the top story in the world. The globalists are in deep trouble, but they're striking back with all their deep state operatives to shut down Infowars and other truth tellers like James O'Keefe and Tucker Carlson and countless others. So please pray for us, now more than ever. Spread the word about the broadcast and get great products to keep us on air and fund our operation while at the same time enriching your life. Now we've got three new products available at Infowarswarcom and a bestseller back at stock. We have the amazing Dr Jones Naturals turmeric toothpaste and so much more. Find out more at Infowarswarcom. We have the ashwagandha root pills with black powder extract to accelerate your libido, stamina, testosterone. We have pure ashwagandha gummies at Infowarswarcom as well. These are all the highest quality products. The prebiotic is now finally back at stock. They're all there at Infowarswarcom. So please take action now. Enrich your life, empower your body and keep us on air. Please take action now. Infowarswarcom Leading a frontal assault to the lies of the new world order. It's Alex Jones. We have to go to break there. Al from Michigan. Thanks so much for holding You're on the air. Hey, thanks for taking my call. You're very welcome. Please do go on. I wanted to explain who's behind this COVID scam and how it relates to Bible prophecy. It's none other than the Jesuit order and the Pope in Rome, Anthony Fauci, was educated at Jesuit Regis High School and said his earliest mentors were Jesuit priests. He was then educated at Jesuit Holy Cross University. As I told Alex Jones, Hitler was a Jesuit and the Jesuits helped author Mein Kampf, which was co-authored by Jesuit Bernard Steinfeld. In the Bible Mystery Babylon of Revelation 17 is described as a city on seven hills in Revelation 17, 18, and the woman which thou sawth is that great city which reigneth over the kings of the earth. So this is Rome. It's the harlot that rides the beast which is the Roman Empire, the fourth beast of Daniel and the beast of Revelation. So we know Well, Al, I think, that there are many, many secret societies that have infiltrated, sadly, many aspects of the church. This is the thing, And so you know, Catholics aren't the problem necessarily, or this group isn't the problem necessarily, but what we need to have is discernment and be aware of when certain aspects of Christianity have actually been targeted. I mean, who would you come after the most if you were the devil Right? Well, this has been going on. Before the Jesuits, there was the Knights Templar, who were suppressed for Baphomet worship and their banking monopoly. They were the first bankers. and these Knights Templar, they went to Scotland and started Scottish-rate Freemasonry and they also went to Switzerland, and that's why the Swiss flag is the Templar flag and you have all these corrupt Swiss bankers. The Swiss Guard also protects the place. I think that anyone who studies secret societies. I mean, if people haven't done that, you should- just to understand that there is an infiltration of every single level of society by secret societies- and I mean we could talk about this all day, Al, really. I mean there are so many of them. but I appreciate you raising awareness on this, because it's important for people to understand that there is a spiritual darkness behind this. I want to get to as many people as I can. I'm going to go to Andrew in New York who's been holding a while. Andrew, you're on the air. Yeah, you're right about the TikTok bill- definitely does more damage than it does. good, but what I was going to say was about how the ESG- I call it the Extremely Stupid and Gay- it's basically environmentalism, like the fake stuff like carbon and stuff like that, and so, yeah, that kind of messes with the investments and that's kind of like they're deconstructionists and then eventually they want to get it. so they have the CBDC. They're actually building a social credit system already, I guess, like with like data mining and stuff they have. Yeah, you're right, Andrew, and here's the thing. This is the common ground that I'm talking about when we're actually having conversations with regular people who may not necessarily be up to date on the agenda behind the things that are happening. when you explain the control that's involved with things like ESG, the agenda behind the control- sorry, the agenda involved with- let me reword that- the agenda behind the social credit system, you know everything that they're doing with digital ID and everything. when you explain that to regular people, it doesn't come off as conspiratorial because of the fact that it affects them as well. You know, when it came to the injections, people thought, oh, it's nuts to think that it would hurt me. You know that's a problem out there over there for the crazies, But social credit system and privacy and data- these things actually do affect people, as does the banking crisis. So really, really crucial point that you've raised there, Andrew, and I encourage people to talk about this with others when they're out there- regular people. I want to keep going. We've got Johnny from Denmark. Johnny, you're on the air. Hi Maria, Great job you're doing. It's always a pleasure to listen to you hosting Infowars shows And, as so often happens, I call for one thing and then I listen to a caller and I want to get into another, Just very briefly addressing the point that a previous caller made about the Jesuits. I think he's only getting about one-third of the picture and not getting it quite right. I believe very strongly, based on my decades of research, that the apex of the New World Order are the Jesuits, but also the Rothschilds and the British royals. Just for example, if you want to go research this, the British monarch is actually the legal owner of all the land in the Commonwealth and that means more than 18% of the world's land. Now, as far as the Knights Templar and their connection to the free nations, the Jesuits are responsible for a lot of disinformation about that too. I believe that that caller did that they were a force for evil and pro-NWO, anti-humanity. but in researching the matter I discovered that it's kind of like saying people who didn't know about the foundations of the US and they see the US now and they say what a corrupt country. saying, oh yeah, the US was founded on corruption. No, the free nations were not founded on corruption, They were founded as anti-NWO and they got infiltrated. But anyway, the thing I wanted to talk about was when I was on hold for Owen Schroyer's war room yesterday. he said to call in about three things. they're all pointing in the same direction and that's NWO takeover of society, And they were the trans agenda and the shooting and Joe Biden's bumbling and fumbling. As far as the trans agenda, leading to the decline of society, it's very interesting that one very intelligent, very knowledgeable researcher, Dr Camille Paglia, who herself is transgender but on transitions, points out that societies that allow this invariably in history just collapse soon afterwards. As far as the shooting goes, there's a lot of gaslighting going on because if one reads the magnum opus on the subject, Dr John R Lott Jr's More Guns, Less Crime- turns out that there is not one single case in history where increased gun control has led to decreased crime and in the vast majority of cases it's led to increased crime. Yeah, you're absolutely right, Johnny. This is evidenced even by the fact that the Democrat states that are really tough on gun control have really high crime rates. but places like Bolsonaro legalises, gives more guns to his people and the crime goes down. I mean, we see trends like this all over the world. Johnny, I've got to get to more calls. Joshua from Colorado, you're on the air. Hi, can you hear me? Sure, can. Thank you for taking my call. I just wanted to let you know. I want to let you know what the agenda is according to the free Masonic lodge. okay, I infiltrated masonry for almost 10 years and got all the way up to the 33rd degree and saw the four holy books. Let me tell you what they know is coming. This is only among the order of the Melchizedek, which are the 33rd and the 32nd degree basins. They know that once the economy falls, then World War III is going to happen and when the bombs drop, this thing called the Attack of the Shaddim- it's a prophecy in the Book of Baruch from the Dead Sea Scrolls- it's going to be this false alien invasion that is going to install the Antichrist, who they call Nikolai. And after that, they know that the whole purpose of the masons is to have the Holy Temple built by 2030 on the Temple Mount in Jerusalem. They know the timeline. They have to have it done by 2030.. They've already got the materials for it, Joshua. They've already got the materials for it in Israel. They've been stockpiling for some time. Yes, and they have to have it done by 2030. That's the whole purpose of the masons And they know that the way the Antichrist is going to come in is through a false alien invasion called the Attack of the Shaddim. This is a prophecy from the Book of Baruch, from the Dead Sea Scrolls, And they also know that when the Antichrist, who they call Nikolai, has a seven-year reign, they also know that Yeshua and the race of who they call the Pleiadians, the ancient humanoids, who are on their mother ship called the New Jerusalem that is parked right in front of Venus, is going to come down with this big, the real alien invasion. There's this fleet called the Order of the Melchizedek that's going to come in with the mother ship, the New Jerusalem, by 2033.. That is what the masons know. We've got to go to break now, but I encourage everyone. I just did an interview on this subject with Jay Dyer. It's up on zmediacom, It'll be up on Band Later. Watch it, because we talk about this very same thing. We'll be back right after this short break. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a new toothpaste that my dad, a retired dentist and oral surgeon, developed- Dr Jones-Naturals' tumeric toothpaste. that just came into stock And I got to tell you. I got samples of this months ago and it is amazing. The way it makes your gums feel, what it does to your mouth is insane. We know tumeric is an antioxidant and anti-inflammatory and does such great things for the body. Then you add that with tea tree oil and a bunch of other essential oils, it is just dynamite. It is so good to detox and attack inflammation in your mouth. I want to challenge everybody to try the new toothpaste at mfoolwarstorcom: Dr Jones-Naturals' tumeric toothpaste. And, while you're at it, check out the new ashwagandha line of products. We have ashwagandha with black pepper extract for your libido, your testosterone, in pill form, And we have the pure ashwagandha root gummies as well, now available at mfoolwarstorcom. They're amazing products and they fund the info war. Take action now. at mfoolwarstorcom I talk a lot about the great successes info wars has had. I don't think anybody can deny it, And it is because of listeners and viewers supporting us. When we talk about the crew at info wars- people behind the scenes, the researchers, the writers- they really have been the MVPs in this fight. And when we look at Harrison Smith and Owen Troyer and the hard work they engage in every day- five, six, seven days a week- it's really just incredible. So for myself- the whole info wars crew- I thank you for your past support. I only encourage you now to realize that info wars cannot stay on air if you do not support us. I know you spread the word, I know you pray for us and that's wonderful. keep doing it. But most viewers and listeners never go to mfoolwarstorcom and you never buy great products that enrich and empower your life while at the same time keep us on air. I know that less than 1% of our listeners actually go buy products at mfoolwarstorcom. If just 1% more of you took action at mfoolwarstorcom, our funding problems will be over. Please take action now. The fight against the new world order is now the top story in the world. The globalists are in deep trouble, but they're striking back with all their deep state operatives to shut down info wars and other truth tellers like James O'Keefe and Tucker Carlson and countless others. So please pray for us now more than ever. spread the word about the broadcast and get great products to keep us on air and fund our operation while at the same time enriching your life. Now we've got three new products available at mfoolwarstorcom and a best seller back in stock. We have the amazing Dr Jones Naturals turmeric toothpaste. that's so much more. Find out more at mfoolwarstorcom. We have the ashwagandha root pills with black powder extract to accelerate your libido, stamina, testosterone. We have pure ashwagandha gummies at mfoolwarstorcom as well. These are all the highest quality products. The prebiotic is now finally back in stock. They're all there at mfoolwarstorcom. So please take action now. enrich your life, empower your body and keep us on air. Please take action now. mfoolwarstorcom. Humanity is in a fight for its very life And mfool wars, for decades, has been at the very forefront of the fight for a pro-human future. We can't stay on air without your help And I want to thank you all for your past support And I want to encourage those of you that have never bought products at mfoolwarstorcom to go there and experience how amazing these products really are. Ultimate Bone Broth- finally sold out for over two years, back in stock. Real Red Pill Plus- simply amazing. Nitric boosts what it does for your heart, Cardiovascular critical. All these products like Ultimate Creole Oil, Ultimate Fish Oil, Supermell Vitality- they're all available and in stock, ready to ship to you right now at mfoolwarstorcom. And the final 1,200 signed copies of my book, The Great Reset in the World for the World- and I'm not going to sign any more after that- are exclusively available at mfoolwarstorcom as well, And the last month I got a little busy so I didn't sign the books. we didn't have them for sale, But now I sign the last books. you can get them right now- Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones Man. I am so energized when I talk to the free-thinking people of the world. This is just one of my favorite things to do. I'm going to go to Marcus from South Carolina. Thank you, Marcus, for holding you on the air. Thank you for taking my call. I'd like to point out, with all these big topic issues that we have, it makes a lot of people feel like, well, what can I do? what can I do? And the first step that everybody can do is take a look in the mirror and see what can you do better in your life. Can you talk to your neighbor, Can you form that little bit of community? Can you write a book? Can you get a product to help support some sort of front line like Infowars? There's a lot of things like this that all of us can do because, at the end of the day, you have such big powers that be that they can make the big sweeping motions. but every one of us matters. Everything that we do actually matters, and that's why I just want to encourage everybody who's listening to go write a book, to get out there and say something to your friend, the neighbor and, just all in all, be better people and be the people who Jesus would want us to be. Amen, Marcus, Don't ever underestimate the power of even a small act. That small seed can change someone's life, and I always tell people that feel helpless: if you're a mother and you're part of a mother's group, do something within that group. Form those communities, get those community ties together really, really strong, because they want to separate the people, and every single one of those acts will lead to something good, because the law of sowing and reaping is that if you do good, good will come back to you. That is how the world works. so don't ever underestimate anything that you do. Thank you so much for the encouragement, Marcus. We're going to go to Charles in Georgia. Charles, you're on the air. Hey, how you doing? Maria, Doing well. Charles, How are you? I'm great, Hey, as usual, I highly enjoy your segment when you host and I hope Alex and crew can keep the list of great female vibration and voices online, you know, such as yourself, Kate Dally, Leanne McAdoo, Christy Leigh and Hannah Spears from Counter Spin, etc. Because you know, I guess the world is more than 50% female and sometimes we as males don't always- not that Alex is doing this I'm saying, but we need to hear the female vibration as much as we do the males, in my opinion, but more prior to you, and it's always good to hear you. Now, my point, just very briefly, is when people that want to be free are fighting for liberation, it seems like when we wake up each day, one of the first things we should do, you know, we refresh ourselves, eat, shower and all that stuff. but it seems like we should confess or express: do we really understand what the meaning of freedom and sovereignty is? And if we really know what it looks like relative to our food, health, finance, work, speech, travel, etc. then it seems like everything else should and would flow from there. but it's like shooting something with the buckshot: the scatters everywhere If we don't resolve in our own spirit that we are designed to be independent and free so that our processes of manifesting that can come from there. what do you think? I agree with you, Charles. I think that everyone should know what their God-given right is, and my God-given right is that my God is God and not the government, and so it's very, very simple. Everything I do flows from that. everything I do flows from my faith and I don't fear for my life. I don't fear for anything because I know what to expect on the other side of this life and, God willing, I'll be worthy of that. So really, I don't live a life of fear because I recognize that my life is not my own and it certainly doesn't belong to the government either. You're absolutely right, Charles. I want to go to Craig in California. Craig, you're on the air, You're doing an awesome job. It's Craig Treadwell here, last day's prophecy seminars, and a full-time evangelist, former co-host of the end-time radio broadcast. but hey, real quick. I want to touch base with you about Revelation 13-18, where the Scripture says: Here's wisdom, let him that has understanding count the number of the beast. it's the number of a man. his number is six hundred threescore and six. six hundred sixty-six, So that my point is the Greek phrase for six hundred sixty-six- and I speak about this at churches all the time- and the Greek phrase is kisi, stigma, c-h-i-x-i and stigma, and the word stigma is the last word for the last six, the word stigma, and it actually means to stick or to prick or to inject a mark, incised or punched for recognition of ownership, and obviously the context is that the mark of the beast. people will not be able to buy or sell without this particular mark in the right hand or forehead, So it's obviously something injected. obviously, we've been talking about microchips in the brain and all of this kind of stuff. Let's not forget, though, that I know you all have talked about it millions of times, including yourself and Alex Profit Alex, but here's the deal. let's not forget that sociopath Bill Gates has the patent. I guess before he left Microsoft, he somehow secured the patent for cryptocurrency data mining in the human brain. I'm not a cryptocurrency expert. Yeah, Bill 06, sorry, patent 06-06-06. that is Craig, and essentially, the nanotechnology. what we've discovered is that the nanotechnology that's already inside the COVID-19 injections could make this possible, as well as sort of mirroring your brain neurons, hacking the human brain, and I find it absolutely fascinating that now we're talking about zombie viruses that can hack the human brain, in line with what Yuval Noah Harari says. now what you're doing is giving a very real warning to people. I'm not saying that the COVID-19 injection was the mark, but the fact is that a mark will come eventually and that could have very well been a test of compliance, but people, if they've had the shots, need to repent either way, I believe, and we should be in a state of trusting God more than we trust the world at all times. So, and never, ever let them do this to us again, never let them scare us into submission again. so, so crucial. We've got a very short time left, so I want to go to Glenn in Pennsylvania really quickly, Glenn, you're on the air. we've got a couple of minutes left here. Okay, Maria, thanks for having me Just real quick. I came across an interesting video regarding Project Looking Glass. as far as the elites using some type of ancient technology- Forgive me if I don't know the exact origins or its capabilities, but it's being used to look into the future and they plug in different inputs to see what the outcome would be, and what they found was as far back as 2012,- that while using Looking Glass, in addition to AI, all these quantum realms of possibilities come together into one singularity, and that singularity always ends up being a mass awakening. So I think that brings some clarity why so many things are ramping up all at once towards the eradication of all the people that will be awake, to limit the number of people that can preserve history and move on, because the globalists know that their time is up. Yeah, you're not wrong. I mean, the elimination of mankind is multifaceted. It is number one the fact that they want to reduce the world's population- and that's a given, because less people easier to control- but they also want to eliminate those of us who have the truth. Now, it's very interesting because in my conversations with Todd Callender, who I had on here as a guest recently, he talks about what he's found inside the patterns of some of these injections, but not only the injections. what's in our skies, in our foods, in the air. This is technology that can rewire your brain, be programmed to create illnesses at any given time. It's really Twilight Zone kind of stuff, but it is happening in the quantum realm and that's something that I've been talking about for quite some time. You know interviews with people like Dr Anna Mejia. you can find all these on zmediacom. They're not all on our banner on Band. So you know talking about the quantum physics side of things and how we're really moving into this Twilight Zone merge of technology and medicine, and this is why I think you know, we're given a stark warning in the Bible that the deception in the last days will come through the pharmaceutical industry. People really need to be aware. So thank you, Glenn, for bringing that up and thank you for your call. We're almost out of time here today, so I just really want to close by saying that the one thing that's evident from all of these callers today is that free thought. I mean, how much do you love hearing these different perspectives, even if you don't necessarily agree with them? The fact that people are able to do that- and this platform provides for that- is really beautiful to me- And be able to have conversations where we talk about these things and talk about how to better humanity and talk about bettering society. They don't want us to even have conversations about how to better society. They want to be able to tell us how they're going to better society And their values are just really out there. I mean, we're talking about protecting people that sexualize children and demonizing people that dare protect children. It's just an upside-down world, but this is the satanic inversion that we are seeing in full force. I'm really sorry for the callers that I couldn't get to today. I'll do this again another time that I'm on. I really do appreciate the time that everyone took to call in and I appreciate every single person in this world fighting for freedom. I encourage everyone go to zmediacom, or later today It'll be up on Band. You all know Jay Dyer. He regularly hosts The 4th Hour, a really important interview on Project Bluebeam and the coming deception. Thank you to everyone for tuning in today. God bless you and thank you for your support of InfoWars and independent media. Alex has been right on for over a decade. This is reality. It just pancakes. Truth is stranger than fiction. The revolution of peaceful information is coming and when it comes time, you people are going to be brought into punishment. You're lying to the public. It's disgusting. The media continues to misrepresent what I've said. He may be America's best known conspiracy theorist. Alex Jones has the largest audience in the country, bigger than any of the networks, the biggest megaphone in the country. We're going to get fired up about the real things. the things that matter. Burn in hell. New World Order, InfoWars- Tomorrow's news. today. This is their big move. So yeah, you say, why doesn't Biden address the disasters in the United States? He doesn't care. That's not his job. He's not the president of the United States. He's a puppet operating for the globalists. Appetites of the autocrat cannot be appeased. They must be opposed. Autocrats only understand one word: No, No, No, Exactly. And that's why we say no to your vaccines. We say no to you shutting down our businesses. We say no to you taking our firearms. We say no to you censoring our free speech. We say no to you selling us out to the World Health Organization. We say no to you getting us into World War Three. You're right. We stand against autocrats like you, Joe Biden, and we say no, And we say no to your war. If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance. For more UN videos, visit wwwunorg.Seven hundred years before medieval Europe ever captured or shipped one black soul, one African, out of Africa, The Arabs had created the trade, they ran the trade and they control the trade to this day, where it's seen as a status symbol that African slaves in your haram, which is the godlike heaven zone, that a lord lives in haram, that the hidden the secret to heaven, and all over the world, the ultra-rich Islamists have black servants. They sell Africans over there in Libya, they sell men. even 15-year-old Libyans are there in a car. they're armed. they'll come and kidnap you and they'll sell you for 70 to $150, and then others will resell you. As soon as you arrive in Libya, the first thing that happens is that you are taken away and sold Like an animal. I was sold four times in open markets in Libya. The last time I was sold for $10,000,. I was tortured every day. The worldwide hub for the slave trade all over the Pacific Ocean, starting 700 years before any blacks were sold by whites, was Somalia, and the light skinned Arabs there did not allow their people to marry anyone from Kenya or the surrounding areas. They got slaves from as far away as Nigeria. What we're finding is that Libya is now a broken economy without any rule. It's got a very small population- 6 million people, and the size of Libya is twice the size of France. So it's a small population and they seem to be essentially living off the migrant trade- migrants being passed from one to another, being exploited as laborers who don't get paid or simply being abused in different ways than being sold on for profit. So it's kind of a shocking situation and it's very difficult to know what can be done about it, because the country is in such chaos and, as we know, ISIS are there, there are different militias, there's no central government of any name. Now this is currently going on. Ilhan Omar is an Arab and it talks about she as a god. You look up her name. it's one of the dominant families in Somalia that is known as royalty, basically, and known as rulers of humans or rulers of slaves- Piracy, kidnapping, black slavery, white slavery. She's a god and she comes to rule you and you will bow. You will hit that damn knee. China's chilling dictatorship is moving quickly to introduce social scorecards in which all citizens will be monitored 24-7 and ranked on their behavior. A higher rating means you get benefits like no deposit of renting house or skipping airport security, but a low-sports means you can rent a car or apply for visas. The Chinese government expects to make this system mandatory in 2020.. Google is planning to launch a censored version of its search engine in China. The Chinese government, as people probably know, has a quite comprehensive boundary here. solicit activities over two decades And because of that. that's why the courts, the judges, the juries, the members of the independent free press that care about this, the ordinary members of the public and the audience that care about this, have to bring real social, political, economic consequence to their course of conduct. otherwise they will never change and they will become the big tech oligarchs, the equivalent to the big trust of the 19th century, who ran American politics and ran American economy almost into the ground until we were able to recover after the Great Depression. The court's audience is the fuel that flames the light of liberty across the world to make real the actions of independent free speech, to make real the original promise of an independent free press. Real collusion is big tech and big media manipulating and working with each other to try to meddle with elections, to try to shake people's thoughts and then the whopper of telling us the whole time it's not happening. it's the ultimate form of gaslighting. What you just saw isn't what you just saw. even it is what you just saw. As I told you, two and a half years ago, the White House was chopped full, absolutely crammed to the gills, with deep state operatives both from the neocon and the leftist loveless wings. They were spying on President Trump the entire time and leaking twisted information. They would take anything and everything Trump did and then leak the classified info, but mix lies into it as well. trying to derail the country, They engaged in shadow diplomacy where they would know what the President's moves were going to be. that would be given to Barack Obama, to John Kerry, to Hillary Clinton and others. Well, several of those spies have been discovered. A lot more of those spies are going to be discovered and these documents are being released to Congress. This should be the top story in the nation, but, of course, if you're not on infowarscom or drudgereportcom or thegatewaypunditcom, you're not going to hear anything about it. But the headline on infowarscom is: deep state spies caught stealing national security information from the White House. It's all completely illegal. It's like Sandy Berger snuck into the bubble in the capital and went in and got classified information that exposed Bill Clinton and put it in his socks and got caught because he wanted it out of there. There was only one copy. He was afraid someone would read it. Well, he barely even served any time for that. ladies and gentlemen, So that's the type of things they're up to, and it's cut and dry, illegal. And the word is: three different federal grand juries are hearing the evidence for indictment and the word is: the indictments are going to be handed down. James Comey, of course, gave the order illegally and nothing criminal was found. But the act of stealing the classified data and the act of putting a spy in the White House totally violates the separation of powers. that shows a rogue agency. I'm going to be covering this at the bottom of the hour in detail, with the documents, the names, the facts. We've got them all right here. We're going to go over those and I'm also waiting on a phone call that I'm going to be taking during the next break with more information on this, because I was told about this not just two and a half years ago, but obviously we would have been breaking that down and we have some good sources that are meant to tell us exactly who the other indictments are going to be of, reportedly. So this is a big, big, big deal and we'll be looking at all of it coming up at the bottom of the hour in about 20 minutes from now. Here's what else we've got for you today, ladies and gentlemen. AOC US must have lifelong commitment to migrant children health care services for life. That's right. You heard that right. She says they're victims of concentration camps. They're made to drink out of toilets. They've been so abused that they need free services and psychological services for life, She told the London Guardian. Now you've seen hundreds of lawsuits filed, all asking for $3 million if children were separated for even an hour from their parents while it was verified who they were with, or if the living conditions weren't the Ritz Carlton- supposedly $3 million- a piece of taxpayer money. You see, when you come here to get free stuff and you bring your kids across dangerous deserts and pay smugglers to do it- and a lot of them aren't their parents- they use them to mule drugs across. how do you turn that around when you're a criminal group engaging in crime and sucking off people and endangering your children- Many times not even your children- Well, you turn it around and say: concentration camps and we deserve more free stuff for the rest of our lives. Well, Tlaib will play a clip in a moment. The Islamic Congresswoman from Detroit, the burnout rubble of that once great city. she's saying that everyone deserves $20 an hour, even though Bernie Panduth had to lay off a lot of his employees or a lot of his campaign people, or cut them from 60 hours to 43 hours, because they demanded to go from $13 an hour to $15 an hour. but Sanders was paying them time and a half And so they had to get the extra 20 hours cut, because time and a half for 13 is obviously a lot of money, but time and a half for 15 is even more So. he's learning about economics. he's never run a business, he's swindled colleges and has $3 million plus homes and drives $18,000 cars- actually looked it up: $118,000 car. I've never had a $100,000 car. I mean this is just all going on here, but he's going to tell you that you've got to hire people for $15 an hour. Now in New York, you pretty much need that, not in South Texas. The owner of the little hot dog shack doesn't make $15 an hour, so it's just insane. So here's Tlaib offering more free stuff: free housing, free transportation, free education, free healthcare, free, free, free. and now $20, here it is, But $2.13, as a tip to place. $2.13 per hour federally. some states, of course, here in Michigan for $3.50 or so- but think about that for one minute. and people cannot live on those kinds of wages and we can't allow people to be living off of tips and ways. so it's just not enough to remind us tips, wages, it's just not, or whatever they call it. it's income, because it's just not enough to support our family. But I also want to always tell a story, because, Okay, I can't listen anymore to this. You heard her say $20, which, again, when you add in all the taxes and the regulations and the social security, somebody being paid $20 an hour is being paid like $26, $27 an hour. Nobody can pay that in your average retail shop or wherever. A lot of times little retail shops aren't selling about a couple hundred dollars of things an hour. How do you pay for the lights, the regulations, the insurance, the rent or the property taxes and the employees? It's insane. The New York Times says we need a $33 an hour. Do you know what an inflation will do if they did that too? Again, this would sink the economy. You know what the average wage in China is? right, It's $2 an hour. How are we going to compete with Mexico that's got less than $2 an hour being the average wage? Well, the answer is: you're not going to do it And the country is going to go belly up, which is the Democrats plan. Cloward and Piven is to wreck the economy to be able to completely and totally, absolutely take it over. We're going to go to break and I'm going to come back and get more into this. But the idea that you get here and you're entitled to free stuff for life because you're a victim, it's like slave reparations. But then meanwhile, Ilhan Omar comes from the upper caste elite tribe of Somalis. that specialty is slavery to this day, but only of subhuman blacks. They have a name for it. We just played in the first segment, if you missed it, documentaries with black Africans from Kenya who, by the way, on average have higher accused than Somalis and looked it up and they're stronger and everything else. But of course they're saying they're subhuman, when if you look at all the African tribes, that the Kenyans are pretty noble folks, definitely compared to the Somalis. So it's just amazing inversion of reality, ladies and gentlemen, Absolute inversion of reality. So that's all coming up today and so much more. Please do not forget. we got DNA Force Plus back in stock. It is the strongest: PQQ, CoQ10, Resital, just all of the things that are award-winning, all the things that are seen as the very best out there. it's in there. LVATP- that's the ingredient of the year by the Nutri-ingredients Awards Conference- increases cellular energy levels, improves athletic performance, CoQ10, PQQ, and it just goes on and on. Astragalus, Reishi, Mushroom R, Alpha, Lepoic Acid, Rodeola- I mean, I just can't go over all this folks. Trans Reservatol, Cordyceps, Sinusis- it's the best of the best for your cells, for your body, for your brain. That's DNA Force Plus. 50% off at infowarsstorecom. Attention, GCN self-reliance listeners. if you've ever wanted an emergency solar survival backup system but we're waiting for prices too crazy to pass up, this will be the most important message you'll ever hear. Bill Hyde here. I want to tell you about a huge sale with historically low prices on our PPX microgrid system that's going to let you produce an endless supply of electricity off the grid. The clearance price is a result of the historic flooding we're having here right on the east bank of the Mississippi. Because of the flooding, we've had to move a lot of our inventory to a temporary location and rather than move it back to the warehouse, we thought we'd offer the system at a price that might seem unbelievable if you didn't know the floodwater's backstory. So here's what you should do right now: check out the PPX microgrid system at myownpowergridcom. That's myownpowergridcom. over a thousand dollars in great off the grid gear and a ton of bonuses too. For the best part, you're not going to pay 750 or 500 dollars, 300 or even 200.. Go to myownpowergridcom to learn more. that's myownpowergridcom. Heart disease is on the rise. clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected by you, but the symptoms are there. Loss of energy, blood sugar spikes and drops, poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong. Remember how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives across America. My blood pressure has normalized. my diabetes has totally improved. Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look, and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel. I recommend heart and body extract to everyone. Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy. Enter your two-month supply today by calling 866-295-5305 or order online: hbextractcom- Heart and body extract. 866-295-5305 or hbextractcom. Let's talk to Marcus in New York. Marcus here on the air, Thanks for holding. Hey. I just want to say your show is a breath of fresh air. I talk to a lot of people here out in New York City and one thing I can tell you is that almost nobody agrees with these wars. I think that the Neocons are trying desperately to get Trump to go to a war, because they know that that's the only way that they could defeat him in the eyes of the public the approaching 2020.. That's it, I mean. if Trump buys into this, it'll be the end of his presidency. It's the only way I think he can be defeated other than assassinating him. It's a time to be praying, my friend, I agree entirely. And the last thing I just want to say, Alex, is: I know they're trying to shut you down, but the reinforcements have arrived. man, I would love to see you on air until you're 80 years old. I'd love to see what you're talking about when you're 80. But if they do shut you down, no, you've gone into this war. You've won a lot of battles and there are a lot of people like myself and many others who are going to continue. We're going to keep fighting in the input war And even if something does happen to you or your show, know for a fact that you've gotten a lot of people fired up for liberty. Thank you, sir, for calling. It's never been easy to figure out the essentials of a new supplement routine. That's why we created the Eight Pack Power Stack, your go-to option for the building blocks of a successful approach to supplementation. This one-stop shop for those looking to simplify or adjust their routine is perfect for new and old info warriors alike. With the Eight Pack Power Stack, there's no trial and error, messy bottles laying across the counter or 20-minute morning habits. Just take the wake-up-and-work or rest-and-recover packs each day for quick, easy-to-use and conveniently accessible formulas to help you reach your peak, without the deep supplement knowledge, stacks of bottles and complicated routine featuring eight different formulas for a total take on your health and wellness. You can find what you like and get even more powerful versions in the store. Head to infowarsstorecom and check out Eight Pack Power Stack today and jumpstart your supplement routine. Hi, could I get a moment of your time here? Could you tell me- do you agree with AOC- that ICE is running concentration camps on the board? I'm watching the mid-tards. There are camps and people are being concentrated. This is very simple. I don't even know why this is a controversial thing for her to say. We have to really truthfully speak about what's taking place, and this is why it's really important for us to abolish ICE and make sure that we have an agency that is accountable to the people, that is dealing with the situation in a humane way. There's no way that we can allow for kids to be caged in this country and children to be separated from their families and people being terrorized in their communities. Is it fair to communicate? We have to make sure that we are calling it out, and I am 100% with Alex. I'm watching the mid-tards. then you would think our country is Mad Max Thunderdome. This guy is like: they're coming from Guatemala, they're coming from Mexico. There's a liberal mob that's coming. You want to drop. You want to drop? Damn Who in the president. You didn't support the. You didn't support the Muslims. You would think everybody in the countries is like to the bunker. The United States is running concentration camps on our southern border and that is exactly what they are. They are concentration camps, and if that doesn't bother you, I don't, I don't know, I like We can have. Okay, whatever, I want to talk to the people that are concerned enough with humanity to say that we should not, That never again means something, and that the fact that concentration camps are now an institutionalized practice in the home of the free is extraordinarily disturbing And we need to do something about it. This week, children, immigrant children, were moved to the same internment camps where the Japanese were held in the early 20th century, And this is not even about a crisis, for Is it not just about the immigrant communities being held in concentration camps being a crisis? This is a crisis for ourselves. This is a crisis on if America will remain America in its actual principles and values or if we are losing to an authoritarian and fascist presidency, And so I think that that is. I don't use those words lightly. I don't use those words to just throw bombs. I use that word because that is what an administration that creates concentration camps is. A presidency that creates concentration camps is fascist, And it's very difficult to say that. This is what organizing looks like, This is what building power looks like, This is what changing the country looks like. It's when we choose to show up and occupy the room and talk about the things that matter most, talking about our future. You know, Reverend, you bring up a funny anecdote and I'm proud to be a bartender. Ain't nothing wrong with that? There's nothing wrong with working retail folding clothes for other people to buy. There is nothing wrong with preparing the food that your neighbors, Hey guys, did. you hear the news? Guardians of the Galaxy is cancelled because the lead actor, Chris Pratt, wore a really insensitive shirt. Now I have to warn you, before I show it to you, that viewer discretion is advised. Are you ready? Okay, that was scary. So last week, Guardians of the Galaxy star Chris Pratt was walking around town with his wife, being normal human beings, when a crazed paparazzi decided to take a photo of the two of them and somehow, for some reason I can't comprehend, this photo of him holding a water bottle in one hand and his wife in the other turned into one of the biggest stories of the week on the internet. Why, Well, let's look closer. Look at that shirt. That's right. It was his shirt, of all things, that caused a huge controversy online and set leftists into a panic: a t-shirt of an American flag with the words don't tread on me, which, by the way, you can get right now at infowarstorecom for only $17.76.. This t-shirt made liberals all over Twitter call him the forbidden R word. It even led to Yahoo News publishing a full blown hit piece on Pratt and accused him of wearing a white super sauce shirt. We have to say super sauce, so the YouTube gods don't come after us. Just look at this headline: Chris Pratt criticized for white super sauce t-shirt. This article was so bad that they had to change the headline to Chris Pratt criticized for t-shirt choice. In fact, they even included an update at the top of the article that says: this article was updated on 17 July, with the initial headline Chris Pratt criticized for white super sauce t-shirt being amended to Chris Pratt criticized for t-shirt choice. References to white super sauce in this article have been removed, but that didn't stop Yahoo from publishing another article that same day. Chris Pratt is in hot water for this controversial t-shirt and the internet has thoughts. This article, by the way, has plenty of references to white super sauce. The article reads: the coiled rattlesnake with the don't tread on me message is the iconography associated with the gas and flag created by Continental Army Brigadier General Christopher Gadsden. While the flag's original purpose wasn't rooted in white super sauce, it has been adopted by some white super sauces in the far right groups in recent years. In some of these instances, swaffles- yeah, we'll go with that- have been added to the design. Who adds a swaffle to a? So when Pratt was spotted wearing a shirt with the Gadsden design, some people quickly drew a parallel between Pratt's order of choice and the last possible. Finally, there's a way for you to get into the blockchain, the hottest financial sector, without all the speculation. No, enjoy a 27% annualized payment each month, without the ups and downs of Bitcoin Seen on programs broadcast on Fox Business News. blockchain data centers offer an equipment leasing program in the explosive digital asset marketplace. Inspired by entrepreneurs who sold picks and shovels during the gold rush, the money is in the mining equipment used to manufacture dozens of critical digital assets. Non-security, IPO or note. blockchain data centers have approved a turnkey equipment sale leaseback program with a 27% annualized lease payment deposited into your bank account each month. Don't miss this one. stake your claim today. Call 800-600-3388,. that's 800-600-3388.. These valuable lease contracts won't last long. Call now 800-600-3388,. 800-600-3388.. Equipment offer poses a financial risk to owners. consult with financial professionals before purchasing, not an offer to buy or sell a security which requires an offering document. Infowars- the most banned network in the world- The oars and listeners. I wouldn't be here if it wasn't for you, and we're under unprecedented evil attacks, as you've seen. but I wanted to take just a minute out here from the bottom of my heart to tell you how much it means to me that when you saw all those lies against us last week- the worst things you can say about people- that you knew they were liars- you went and looked it up and found out the truth, And so I feel very strong and I feel God's hand on my shoulder and I feel your love in my heart and I want you to know that love is right back at you and I want to thank you for all you've done with your word of mouth and your prayers and your financial support, because I'm committed to fight to the end. but I want to win and without you I'm going to be destroyed and it's not going to be fun, but that's not what's important. The enemy could win. We're a key chess piece in this fight. We're being used by God, You're being used by God. This is providence. So I salute you and I thank you for all you've done from the bottom of my heart. InfoWars- the most banned network in the world- SubscribeStarcom- forward slash Alex Jones. That's where the next adventure against tyranny begins. That's where I'm going to be posting exclusive content seven days a week in the fight for human freedom worldwide. That's where people that are at the third tier will get a free special edition t-shirt and more. SubscribeStar Alex Jones, Search it today. It's a super hot site. It's pro-freedom, It's pro-free speech. It's exploding right now and we're very excited to be involved at SubscribeStar. So be sure and join me at subscribestarcom- forward slash Alex Jones for the next level of the human revolution against tyranny. When you subscribe today, you will see information, you will see videos, you will see articles, you will see documents you won't see anywhere else at subscribestarcom forward slash Alex Jones. So subscribe today for exclusive content nowhere else on the worldwide web. SubscribeStarcom- forward slash Alex Jones. Before I started working at InfoWars, I was not only a fan of Alex Jones and InfoWarscom, but also the products at InfoWarscom, and there's one product that's offered at InfoWarscom that is the elite of the supplements, and that's DNA Force Plus. Now I remember when Alex first started talking about this with some of his special guests- Telomere's and Telomere's support with your DNA. So I started to look into the science and what Telomere's were and how it can improve your health and longevity when you protect your Telomere's. So I started looking into DNA Force Plus, but it's expensive. Why? Because it is an elite supplement. and then I started seeing other competitors coming up with competitive supplements for Telomere's support and they came and they went, But DNA Force Plus is still there. It is the elite supplement. I get excited when DNA Force Plus is on sale because I know it's expensive, So you should take advantage of 50% off DNA Force Plus at InfoWarscom. I'm going to be back live next hour. I'm working on a big story right here and I've got to make some phone calls and this is some big stuff about the latest attempted coup against the president and against the country, and then Lord Monkton's going to be joining us as well with big new developments exposing the fact that they know man make global warming and climate change is a fraud. Of course, we already know that, but a bunch of major studies, a bunch of big admissions are going to be coming up as well today, But I don't normally air something over and over and over again, but I've aired this already three times. I'm going to air it again. It's Professor Robert Epstein, who's a psychologist and runs big computer science programs, works with DARPA, you name it. He testified, as you know, last week that Google's already stealing the election, along with Facebook, and if it doesn't get stopped, we will see the election stolen in 2020.. So this is a paramount issue. and then next hour I am going to start the hour off getting into the espionage and the spies caught inside the White House and really how deep all of that goes. So we'll be back, I'll be back live next hour with all of that information and we're going to be breaking it all down. it's very, very important, so please stay with us. Google's manipulation of votes gave at least 2.6 million additional votes to Hillary Clinton in the year 2016,. is that correct? 2.6 million is a rock bottom minimum. The range is between 2.6 and 10.4 million votes, depending on how aggressive they were in using the techniques that I've been studying. They control these and no one can counteract them. These are not competitive. these are tools that they have at their disposal exclusively. Your testimony is that Google is, through bias in search results, manipulating voters in a way they're not aware of On a massive scale. in 2020, if all these companies are supporting the same candidate, there are 15 million votes on the line that can be shifted without people's knowledge and without leaving a paper trail for authorities to trace. Without monitoring systems in place, we'll never know what these companies are doing, and in 2020, you can bet that all of these companies are going to go all out, and the methods that they're using are invisible. they're subliminal. they're more powerful than most any effects I've ever seen in the behavioral sciences, and I've been in the behavioral sciences for almost 40 years. A handful of Silicon Valley billionaires and giant corporations are able to spend millions of dollars, if not billions of dollars, collectively massively influencing the results of elections. Senator, with respect, I must correct you. If Mark Zuckerberg chooses to send out a go vote reminder just to Democrats on election day, that doesn't cost him a dime. Google is developing an app to screen out content that the Chinese government considers too sensitive for its citizens. translation Google is helping China silence its political opposition. China's chilling dictatorship is moving quickly to introduce social scorecards in which all citizens will be monitored 24-7 and ranked on their behavior. A higher rating means you get benefits like no deposit of renting house or skipping airport security, but a low sports means you can rent a car or apply for visas. The Chinese government expects to make this system mandatory in 2020.. Google is planning to launch a censored version of its search engine in China. The Chinese government, as people probably know, has a quite comprehensive internet censorship system set up, and it's known as the great firewall. that blocks all kinds of information about political opponents of the ruling Communist Party regime. They're all kinds of things that they're blocking out. These agree to ban particular sites or search times on topics like human rights, democracy and free speech. You know, Google's really the CIA, but it's leftist run now, so it's run over to China and it's a civil war inside the intelligence agency. These are serious people plotting to finagle the searches, which is what Google sells to us as being fair and unbiased. Google alone could determine the outcome of almost any American election just by altering its search suggestions. We never know what happens. Well, Google is being accused of hiding negative stories about Hillary and her campaign by changing its algorithm to bury stories like the Clinton body count story. that's according to website Infowars. So Google won't work with the Pentagon on artificial intelligence, but it's officially moved its main operations for AI to China and is merging with the Chinese government, letting them have all the technology. So they're working on behalf of the fascist Chinese government, sending propaganda to its people to keep them under the control of the government, but we shouldn't worry about the fact that they have a chokehold on all human information. in English, Not a big deal, I mean, that's a lot you just said there, but I think it's all true. So Google always swears that its liberal, anti-Trump views of the top people doesn't affect the search product, but here is documented proof of some Google executives wanting to tamper with searches as a form of political act. The Chinese government, let's remember, in prisons dissidents and Christians daily. They have more than a million Muslims in reeducation camps, but the legitimate election of President Trump somehow conflicts with Google's vaunted values. give me a break. Google was working to get Hillary Clinton elected. If a Google user types in Clinton body, they get car repair shop results instead of a story that talks about a list of people tied to the Clintons who have died under mysterious circumstances over the last three decades. A new bombshell development reveals, Hillary Clinton's leaked emails were likely responsible for the deaths of up to 20 CIA agents working in China. Over a dozen CIA agents may have been killed as a result of Hillary Clinton's leaked emails. The real election meddling is by Facebook and Google and others that are shadow banning people, that are outright banning people and they're blocking conservatives involved in their own first amendment political speech. Shame on the mainstream corporate media for not defending the First Amendment but instead attack dogging, calling for federal regulators to shut down independent free press. working with big tech. You're not allowed to get the Info Wars official app on your iPhone. You're not allowed to watch the Alex Jones show on YouTube or Twitter or Facebook. But if you're the Chinese government and you want access to every citizen and all their data and everything they've ever done on an Apple product, good to go, baby, good to go, And the left in America loves it. We're gonna move to the east, to the Horn of Africa and Somalia, the most dangerous backward evil country in the world. And you know why Somalia is so bad: because African countries all around it have driven the Arab slavers in the last thousand years, the Muslim slavers, into the Horn of Africa, where it was the center of the slave trade of Africans all over the world. Once the Roman Empire fell, white slaves were the main slave group. Africans that were rich had white slaves, which is because who was trained and where they got slaves was Gaul. that's France today, Germania, which is Austria, and Germany, the British and others they called Gaelic, out of what's the UK today, Old Albion, England. But after the fall of the Roman Empire, the Western Empire, and the fall of the Eastern Empire and Constantinople, when the Islamists took it, civilization collapsed in Western Europe and there wasn't any good slaves being brought in anymore, And so that Muslims started enslaving Africans over a thousand years ago. And that's why Ilhan Omar doesn't look African. she's an elite Somali. The upper class Somalis are light skinned, they are Muslims and they are slave traffickers. They sell black slaves today to four countries that still allow slavery. It's still customary in several Arab countries to have black house slaves. That's the truth, folks, but they don't want you to know. I bet you a lot of money she comes from slavers and you're literally looking at someone that comes from the hub of a thousand years of black slavery. Ilhan Omar, guaranteed in her lineage, is pure slavery. They ship slaves out of Somalia all the way to Indonesia And then, as you project out towards the east, to the far east, you will see all the islands and countries they've taken over in the last thousand years since Islam 1400 years ago went expansionist. I talk about this on the air and I know it sinks into people, but I've decided that we're going to kind of reboot all our supplements in that if you go back five, six years ago, before all the censorship and attacks and fake lawsuits and the rest of it, I would talk about how great the products are and how they were the best and why they were, and I'd have doctors on an expert to explain why they were so good. And instead the last few years I'm like, hey, we need to really support us or they'll shut us down. The biggest thing people like to buy is supplements because they know how great they are and how wonderful they were. And the left always has headlines everywhere. Jones sells unapproved supplements that he claims are supplements. No, under federal law since 1996, you can't say that a supplement has been through the FDA because they have no jurisdiction and won't look at it. But then they say you've got to say it's not approved by them and all drugs are, is the system trying to tweak what's in Mother Nature and manipulate it and do different things. and a lot of drugs work great. They have side effects, not with Mother Nature. but Big Pharma doesn't want you knowing about God's medicine. chest InfowarsStorecom or triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine. Serving with Infowars is a great honor, but I still need my morning coffee and luckily our break room at the Infowars headquarters is stock full of high quality Infowars store Patriot Blend coffee grown in the high mountains of southern Mexico. The Chiapas Farmers grow 100% organic, non GMO coffee at the ideal altitude for the perfect cup: a robust coffee with great flavor and mild acidity. There has never been a more important time to support Infowars. so if you love coffee and if you want to fight for freedom, then you can help. order now at the Infowars store, Sign up for auto ship and get your own high quality supply of Patriot Blend coffee delivered right to your door at InfowarsStorecom. It's time to show them what a real alpha male looks like with one of our most powerful products ever made: Alpha Power. as you age, your body can lose testosterone over time. With the incredible ingredients in this formula, we can help you beat the test of time and assist in restoring that lost energy and mood that comes with time and age. Alpha Power's incredible ingredients can help you boost your sport performance or enhance your day to day life with ease, while encouraging hormonal balance. perfect by itself or with super male vitality in the true alpha male path, Alpha Power can help lose performance, help maintain normal testosterone levels, support healthy cholesterol and more. Let Alpha Power help bring you to the peak of your optimal health. Don't fall short on energy in the fight against tyranny. Show the world what a true alpha male looks like today with Alpha Power. Head to InfowarsStorecom today. Our powerful line of fluoride free products is the perfect gift for yourself or others who are exploring a healthier, happier lifestyle. With options ranging from toothpaste to oral spray, it's easy to find the perfect option for you. Super Blue Toothpaste is the fan favorite fluoride free toothpaste that every Infowarier loves. Powered by iodine and nano silver, it's designed to deliver a powerful clean while supporting good oral health and fresh breath. Available in two refreshing flavors: Enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil, or try our bubblegum flavor. Super Blue Immune Gargle is the only option for on the go immune system support like no other, With the scientifically proven, patented ingredient Silver Skull, in three different sizes. you can take it wherever you go. Support good oral health with our one of a kind Super Blue products. Don't miss out on revolutionizing your morning routine. Head to InfowarsStorecom and get our line of Super Blue products today. Your listening to the Alex Jones show Live, raw and unfiltered. It's the Alex Jones show. I hope all the viewers and listeners understand something, but I think you do. You've got discernment. I don't have a filter. What you see on air is who I am. I would tell you something right now. I'm super pissed at myself. I'm angry at what I've done the last year or so because, well, let me just explain it. When I take the supplements that we sell, that are the highest quality, best researched, that are all the missing links of nutrition that the globalist have, by design, imposed on us so that we are deficient, so that we are dumbed down, so that we are weak, so that we are lethargic, And I myself preach that we should be healthy and prepared, And then I don't do it. I'm not as healthy. People notice that, And then I'm not promoting it as much. Instead, I'm just saying: support us, get the products. That's how we fund our operation. That's secondary. If I'm bringing you the best products, like DNA Force Plus- I'm about to break down- then it's going to work great for you and you're going to want to reorder it, which is a 360 win, a symbiotic relationship, a non-zero sum game. And I know the problems. I've talked about it before. Almost eight years ago I was 80 plus pounds overweight. I was exercising every day, but all the chemicals, the environment, I couldn't lose the weight. I went on X2.. I went on the first key products that we promoted, that we knew were the best out there, and the weight just poured off of me. But then over the years, I get busy, I'm working hard, I run out of the vitamins and the minerals. I don't have an auto ship set up and then I'm lethargic, I'm not working out. The same thing happens again, especially as you get older. Show: about three weeks ago I religiously began to take X2 every morning. I religiously began to take fish oil every morning. I religiously began at lunch to take my DNA Force Plus. that's so critical And I've already lost seven pounds. as of yesterday, I didn't weigh today and my workouts are explosive compared to where they were. I'm doing three times the sets. I'm working out for an hour and a half, The sweat's pouring off. I'm feeling great, I feel like I'm 20 again And so I'm committing. this time I'm committing, In fact, I want to walk around the room. You guys bring the mic in here please. Folks, I'm telling you, this doesn't just fund the operation, which is a win-win by itself. This literally empowers Patriots bodies and helps us with the tools God gave us and the evidence. the science is all there. Thank you, Scott, Is it on? Thank you. Before we went on today, I told the crew: please get my mobile mic ready, And I'm going to tell you right now why I did that. I've done live shows before where I just wore a pair of sunglasses And back when we were on YouTube, we get like three times more views for our sunglasses or cowboy hat because it's out of the ordinary. People ask themselves what's different about this. So today I decided to get the mic here and, you know, stand up, because I want to note to everybody: this is special, This is important. I'm 45 years old. When I was 35, I swam to two miles a day sometimes and would jog and couldn't lose weight because I didn't have the missing links. I was deficient in things that nobody ever told me I was deficient in. I knew all about the private federal reserve, the trilateral commission, the new world order, Jeffrey Epstein, the pedophile rings. I knew all about geopolitical systems and the old Soviet Union and how the globals put the chycoms in, But I didn't know about PQQ. I didn't know about CoQ10.. I didn't know about all this and I didn't know about clean iodine. And yeah, I want to fund my operation. I want you to get products that have changed my life and changed so many other people's lives, that have 98% reviews, and then experience that I'm not bsing you so that for some of you, maybe in the first time in your life, you're going to experience somebody that treats you like they want to be treated. Let me tell you something right now. You see, DNA force. I went out to top manufacturers- though the most respected, most highly tested- And I said I want the strongest PQQ, CoQ10 overall formula that has pure, non-synthetic stuff in it that's ever been put on the market. And they said: well, that's like a $22 each bottle. I said I want to put $50 a bottle in it. They said: nobody's ever done that. Then I signed a contract to double the amount I was going to buy. I got it down to $30 something dollars a bottle for what it cost me to make this. Nobody does that. Ladies and gentlemen. you read what's in this and you research every ingredient in this and then you experience it for yourself. It's incredible. There's nothing like what God gave us through Mother Nature. There's nothing as strong. And you look at all the things that are in this. LVATP- the number one ingredient in 2008, winning all the awards for increased cellular energy levels and improves athletic performance. CoQ10, we have the best form of it. The ingredient was popularized and studied by Dr Peter Mitchell and won the Nobel Prize for CoQ10. This is a Nobel Prize winning ingredient. PQQ: we got the best form of that. This ingredient has won multiple awards, including ingredient of best science. There are over 1,000 published studies on PQQ health benefits. You might want to go read them. They make your telomeres last longer. That's the DNA. They literally rejuvenate the cells and the engines in them. And again, I get in the habit of getting so busy I forget to eat breakfast. most mornings Almost didn't eat lunch. today They're like: hey, you're being a jerk, Eat lunch. I was better. after that. You take the X2.. You take the X3.. You take the bodies too. You take the DNA force because this is the next level. You get a great response from it and you fund the Second American Revolution worldwide. But I want to be clear: whether it's X2 or whether it's DNA force plus, this stuff isn't a game. I chopped my finger off 15 years ago helping people on the lake whose boat was on fire. Old Kevin Booth was there. It's a long story short. It was quite a fiasco. The finger was still numb until I took the original DNA force five years ago. Feeling came back in it. You can actually say, because it's patented, that it regrows nerves. Now that doesn't mean if you broken your back and you're paralyzed, it's going to, you know, reconnect those giant nerves. But I had old back pains and things and old areas that were numb from football injuries where the nerves were so dead. I had no feeling. The back pain came back and then the back pain went away. So what I'm saying is it's not all just roses to have your nerves come back. You need to know PQQ, CoQ10 and the other ingredients in this aren't child's play. This is stuff God gave us. It's powerful. So consult your physician before you take it, because it could interact with something else you're involved in. because we're not selling placebos, We're not selling snake oil, We're selling the most powerful nutraceuticals on the market. because I want to be that guy that puts out the best fish oil. I want to be the guy that puts out the best iodine. I want to be the guy that puts out the best turmeric concentrate. I want to be the guy that, when you order the products we sell, you go man, his info is not just good, His products are amazing. because I want a relationship with you and I want to have a better world with you and I want to dominate the globalist and I want you to be healthy, because that's what I want for myself. and we're all connected and anybody that tells you we're not connected is a Satanist. They may not know they're a Satanist, but Satanism is believing you're alone and believing that what you do doesn't come back on you. Listen, I'm a total individualist, but we are all collectively tied to each other. I believe individual freedom, but not at the expense of others, and that's the freedom and the free will God gave us- is to be individuals, but collectively connected, Not individuals who don't care about anybody but ourselves. So I encourage everybody: learn about the secret history of iodine and the IQ reduction when you don't take it. Learn about PQQ, CoQ10, Reservatol and all the other things I mean. there's so many that are in our alpha lipoic acid, rhodiola astragalus, reishi, reservatol- I just don't have time to go over it all- and they're all the best, the highest quality and they fund the information war. This bottle could be full of air. It's not. It's full of the highest quality product. and it was still fun, a revolution against tyranny. It was still stand up for unborn babies and born babies and our very country's existence. but just like our information is powerful, this product is powerful, ladies and gentlemen, and that's why I'm so proud of it. So know this: when you get DNA Force Plus, it takes a few weeks to kick in, just like the iodine, because it changes the entire metabolic system in the body, from the research that I've done in my own personal experience. and it's big medicine, it's big mojo, it's big, it's not globalist crap, it delivers. So check it out today: both products- DNA Force Plus and the high quality iodine X2 and X3, that's three products. they're all 50% off right now so you can experience these. A lot of you have already experienced it. You get great results. you forget about it, like I did, Get back on it. A lot of you stay on it. A lot of people haven't tried it yet and they need to experience it right now. InfoWarsLifecom for the X2, the X3 and, of course, the DNA Force Plus. today During the sale and of course last night, I'm on InfoWarscom and I read Chris Pratt criticized for t-shirt choice. It is literally the shirt that I envisioned: a Betsy Ross, but also another, just classic American flag, all 50 stars with the Gadsden Snake superimposed over it and on the back, America's back, InfoWarscom. But what's better than just an American flag? about a don't tread on me under the flag saying don't tread on the American flag. it's a perfect combo. So great minds think alike. I mean whoever designed that shirt, we'd already come up with the exact same, similar design. It is the don't tread on me American flag t-shirt inspired by the triggering of leftist. of the shirt worn by Chris Pratt, Let it say: you know, battle tattered flag, like the one that flew over Fort Sumter. and again on the back it says America's back, InfoWarscom, 4,000 of these babies, and that's it. So we've got the Betsy Ross version and the American flag version at InfoWarscom. You're printed in the USA right now. InfoWarscom, We'll be right back, the most banned broadcast in the world. It's not only that. you have a unique voice in the public arena and the public square. The other thing that's unique about InfoWars is it isn't the only network of this reach that is not backed by a corporate donor or corporate sugar daddy, That's not backed by some billionaire, That's not being funded by secret foreign government. It is completely independent of all that. It is an old school American 1776 style experiment in the expression of the freedom of press and freedom of speech That, in fact, the founders were so concerned with at the beginning of the country. they actually tried to support and subsidize organizations just like this because this was the kind of press they wanted, And then, ultimately, we now live in an era where they've mostly been co-opted by big corporations or billionaire sugar daddies who've been able to control and manipulate what news it views, the persons allowed to have or express or hear, And the InfoWars audience has broken through that. They are the bridge from the use of founding to the modern age, ultimate American democracy and freedom, And that's why there's been an unprecedented onslaught of the platforming, defamation, lawfare and libel targeting youth. We're listening to the Alex Jones show. Comments from the White House are disgraceful and disgusting And these comments are racist. The chair will remind all members: please, please, do not make comments toward personality based or personality based comments. This whole Ilhan Omar, the Jihad Squad, all of it really illustrates what a bunch of cowards the Republican establishment is and how you turn on any channel They're saying: well, what the president has said is racist and he needs to walk it back. No, Ilhan Omar has openly said she doesn't like this country. She said that she's going to teach us how to be patriotic. If you go back into the Four Congresswomen, the things they've said about our country are terrible. What they've said about Israel are just terrible. I don't know, I can't say for sure, but certainly a lot of people say they hate our country And I think it's a disgrace. And so, since the first day this president introduced the Muslim ban, knowing that the country I came from was on that and that my country now was on the track of implementing fascist laws, I knew that I had to speak up. She comes to this country and squats on us and spits in our face And we're supposed to bow down to her? You don't go to Mexico or someplace and run your mouth about how it sucks. They say: get the hell out of, you, don't like it. And that's how any other country in the world who isn't totally brainwashed acts. We're not saying: get out of here because your background is an Arab slave family, Arab slave traders. We're saying because you're an arrogant, America hating liar that says we're running concentration camps and our overworked border patrol is are Nazis killing children. Right now the president is committing human rights abuses at the border, keeping children in cages and having human beings drinking out of toilets. Ilhan Omar goes along with the lie that children are drinking out of toilets. She came here as a refugee. She married her brother. She wrote letters to federal judges to get ISIS terrorists out of prison. She voted against Bill blocking terrorists from life insurance. The woman is a cancer. I know there are a lot of people that are trying to distract us now, but I want you all to know that we are not going to let that, And the crowd was right behind her. To me, she's far more patriotic than the people who were at the rally chanting last night, And when I hear that, it makes me afraid. I'm concerned that Trump is building a militia. to be honest with you, Are there folks from Africa that come here that are great people? Absolutely. I've run into people that have immigrated here from Africa who are hardworking, smart, nice people because they know to appreciate a country like the US compared to some of the places they've come from. But a lot of people are brought here and have chips put on their shoulders by the left and by leaders the Democrats give them like Ilhan Omar. All right, ladies and gentlemen, we're live for the rest of the broadcast. today I punched out last two segments because I didn't want to go off half cocked with what I was about to talk about. So I went and reviewed in the last 30 minutes or so A lot of court documents, a lot of research, made some phone calls so that I could talk about what's currently happening. because I realized that I've been so busy covering all the other big subjects that I've not been so sick of Russiagate. But the criminal investigation of Russiagate and the espionage that was carried out by the deep state, that is a huge story And it's all about to come out in the open. And this also tells us whether Bob Barr is a good guy or not. So I'm really ready to lay out some big stuff on the side. other side of this quick break And these type of things really upset me. It's very sad our country's gotten into this position. Stay with us. I got a plug for the Patriot points. I got $180 so far this year and I feel like I'm stealing from you. I buy so much in the store because I mean I don't want to give that money to Walmart. I don't want to give that money to people who are going to donate it to causes I don't believe in, So I'd rather give that money to you. And I'm getting quality products. The products that I do receive have changed my life. I mean, the X2 has really done a lot for me. I've lost weight. My brain works a whole lot better. My kids- they use the toothpaste. My son used to get these little sore throats and he puts X2 in water and drinks it and it gets rid of his sore throat. Well, sir, let me break this down for you. I want high quality stuff in there. I want a good price. But I've kind of habituated everybody to where everybody buys when it's 50% off. I'm making $2 on the toothpaste 50% off, And so it's the same thing like the fish oil or the turmeric or the bone broth. Thank you so much for the plugs, But listen, when people get the Patriot points, a lot of times it makes things a loss later because if you're already getting 10% off because you're on auto ship, then we're doing 50% off And then you do something like that. We have Patriot points, We lose money, but it's okay. Thanks for the support. Live from the Infowarscom studios. you're listening to the Alex Jones show, for now, six minutes into hour number two on this July 23, 2019, worldwide simulcast of radio and TV blasting out over the internet and on M and FM and TV stations across the country in the world. The whole situation, with the attempt by the entrenched bureaucracy or the deep state to keep President Trump from getting into office and then attempting to remove him from office, is the greatest string of arrogant, outrageous, over the top criminal activity and treason and espionage against this nation. And then the subsequent lying and perjury and changing of stories is the most spectacular ever seen as well. But the country is 246 years old. It's gotten more and more corrupt over time And as we become more powerful, the corruption has become more intense. As Lord Acton famously said, power tends to corrupt. absolute power corrupts absolutely. So here's the summation, and we have the live feed named today up on News Warscom. Deep State caught spying on Trump and stealing national security information from the White House. What they did was a crime, And then how they would lick the information with lies sewn into it is also extremely criminal. Now Trump's known all this- a lot of this- since the head of the NSA at the time came over and visited him when he was president, elected Trump Tower and gave him a good idea of what was going on. We knew what was going on because we were studying the globalist and their statements and their past activities, and they were very arrogant about it. when he was president-elect, They said: we've been spying on him, We got proof, he's a Russian agent. And Trump said: well, if you did, that's illegal, show us your proof. and went: oh, we never said that. So there's a lot goes into this, but here's the big announcement: They haven't caught just one or two or three or four. They have caught dozens of people that have been in the White House two and a half plus years, and even before when he was president-elect, who've been actively trying to frame and set up the president. That itself another giant crime. And now a particular federal judge has been releasing troshes or segments of documents from Comey's blackmail diary that show his testimony to Congress was a lie and that show who was spying on who and then how they would leak fantastic lies from their quote sources. So I've got several articles here in front of me. Everybody needs to go read. but the reason this is a big issue is the federal judge is now ordering that it all be released in the next month without redaction, which shows the power structure now knows that Trump has the upper hand And that shows that Bill Barb, the former attorney general, now the current attorney general- reason he was confirmed so quickly was the establishment couldn't believe they were putting their guy a fixer from the George Herbert Walker days, from the CIA, not just the FBI. They couldn't believe they were putting this guy in. but he was there to cover their butt but to sue for peace with Trump. but they've not sued for peace. they're still trying to take Trump out and so bars asking all this stuff be redacted because it exposes the Clintons and Obama and the illegal spying and the planting and all the rest of it. So they don't know. they don't know what to do because the left just can't stop their impeachment. they can't stop their their fake Mueller investigation tomorrow. they can't stop the lie that Trump's a Russian agent, because that's how they started the fake national security investigation to begin with and told people in the CIA and FBI: we have proof, we're gonna take him out, get ready, including- and you're gonna hear this soon- plans to kill the president because he was a- quote- Russian asset. but a lot of their own people got cold feet when Trump got inaugurated and then when the country turned around and then when they learned that the dossier was fake, their own people were buying this and that's in all these documents. they really thought Trump was a Russian agent when the Hillary and Obama or Chai Kham agents, and that's all illustrated now over the news. it's all coming out. so they've discovered not just one, not just two, not just three, but a bunch of these people, and it's all coming out, and so that's why they're so panicked in. there are multiple- I'm told three- grand juries in DC, Virginia and Maryland at least- that are going to be returning indictments against some of these individuals, and you need to go read these articles once from the last refuge and it links to all the court documents and statements James Comey had, designated FBI spy in the White House who now works for CNN. this report goes through everything. I'm going to read some of this in a moment. Comey's cyber spy in White House stole classified White House material, is now working for CNN and of course, his name is Anthony Faronte and we can roll some b-roll of him on CNN hosting shows. I'd queued that up about 30 months ago now. this individual is just one of them and he works for the deep state and it comes out that he was working with the Italian government reportedly to plant on Italian citizens computers that own server companies WikiLeaks info to then plant it in the US to then shut up Trump and that's all come out in the Italian courts. it's just bombshell information to have all of this going on. so these individuals decided to set up the president, it's decided to frame him, but there was literally nothing, and so this individual was supposedly in the web White House advising Trump on national security, on cyber security, while he was in the Russia investigation run by Hillary and her people and Obama in the deep state and again trying to then find ways to plant info on the president and these articles go through all of this. it's beyond sensational. now, now we already know all this. but the fact is we now learn that Mr Barr understands this can blow up the whole government. so he's in there saying Trump did nothing wrong and that's all true. they're attacking him. but now we learn he's actually in there just like I said. he was totally and completely protecting Brennan, Clapper, Hillary, all of them, because they have all the damning evidence of the perjury to Congress. the illegally spying didn't have authorization from the attorney general to do this to the president and the attorney general can't do that. even if you say, oh, we think the president's a Russian agent, we've got to do this, you still go to go to Congress for an impeachment or every president would be accused of being a foreign asset. globalism is a foreign asset. globalism is overthrowing the country. globalism is saying we can't say America or American in colleges, or that we can't say that our country is exceptional and CNN says America sucks. these Trump supporters love America. they're bad people. that's the enemy. that's the outsider, that's the globalist. they're the ones that want our economy imploded and are trying to implode it. you judge a tree by its fruits, and the fruit of the democrat deep state tree is poison. the fruit of the neocon tree is poison, total and complete poison. so we come back, I'm gonna run through these court documents and I'm gonna get into what's coming out next. but the judge has ruled. it's all coming out and it's a total blueprint. a lot of it's already out of treason, ladies and gentlemen. a blueprint of trying to remove the president. but the president was so clean there was nothing there. I'm Alex Jones with news wars dot com and info wars dot com. we're beating the deep state together. so I salute you, the crew and everybody else for making this broadcast possible. finally, there's a way for you to get into the blockchain, the hottest financial sector, without all the speculation. no, enjoy a 27% annualized payment each month, without the ups and downs of bitcoin seen on programs broadcast on fox business news. blockchain data centers offer an equipment leasing program in the explosive digital asset marketplace. inspired by entrepreneurs who sold picks and shovels during the gold rush, the money is in the mining equipment used to manufacture dozens of critical digital assets, not a security IPO or note. blockchain data centers have a proven turnkey equipment sale leaseback program with a 27% annualized lease payment deposited into your bank account each month. don't miss this one. stake your claim today. call 800-600-3388. that's 800-600-3388. these valuable lease contracts won't last long. call now 800-600-3388. 800-600-3388- equipment offer poses a financial risk to owners. consult with financial professionals before purchasing- not an offer to buy or sell a security which requires an offering document. hunters, anglers, campers and survivalists: get back to nature. expand your horizons with the highest quality, most versatile, unique sling shots and sling bows on the market at sling bow dot com. sling bow products are compact and models start from just 1798. they're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle. give you, yourself and your loved ones, the excitement and tradition of sling bow, a new frontier in archery and truly modern twist on this primitive survival tool. feel the thrill only at sling bow dot com. hi, i'm dan pilla. i started fighting the irs over 40 years ago when they tried to seize my mother's house. i sued the irs in one. i beat the irs then and i've been beating them ever since. i wrote the book on tax debt settlement and i've helped thousands of people deal with tax problems they thought might never be solved. i can help you to. if you owe taxes you can't pay, don't wait another day. there's no such thing as a hopeless tax case. call 800 34, no tax, or go to my website, dan pilla dot com. that's dan pilla dot com. dan pilla dot com. i just want listeners understand. money is what allows us to beat this and stand against this. and we're seeing a lot of orders right now with the save info wars- 50 percent off. but we make only like five, ten dollars on higher marked up and stuff. we're making like two dollars on the toothpaste at that price and we're moving a ton of it. okay, but you move a couple hundred thousand dollars or something and you get twenty thousand dollars. that doesn't pay for all the infrastructure, the bandwidth, the lawyers, the crew. so we need to sell millions and millions and millions of dollars of product. i want to expand, not contract, and for six months we've not just made a standstill. the enemy's been winning and i have labored and labored and labored and labored on this. i like to be expanding, i like to be winning, i like to be fighting and we are winning the info war. that's why we're so hated. but we need to be retreaded, we need to be tuned up, we need to be fixed up. we never have time to get into drive up. we got a lot of holes shot at us and the enemy wants to silence us. then they're really going to plant child porn on us. then they're going to kill me or you or anybody else. i mean the democrats now are going into a full revolutionary fervor funded by foreign banks in the chai com. so go to info war store dot com. before i started working at info wars, i was not only a fan of alex jones and in force dot com, but also the products at info wars store dot com. and there's one product that's offered at info wars store dot com that is the elite of the supplements and that's dna force plus. now i remember when alex first started talking about this with some of his special guests- telomeres and telomere support with your dna- and so i started to look into the science and what telomeres were and how it can improve your health and longevity when you protect your telomere. so i started looking into dna force plus. but it's expensive. why? because it is an elite supplement. and then i started seeing other competitors coming up with competitive supplements for telomere support and they came and they went, but dna force plus is still there. it is the elite supplement. i get excited when dna force plus is on sale because i know it's expensive, so you should take advantage of fifty percent off dna force plus at info wars store dot com. you're listening to the alex jones show. spies have been caught inside the white house working for multinational corporations, using their government credentials to carry out the fraud and theft. massive amounts of national security data has been stolen and sold to cnn, msnbc and others, who then sell the information to foreign governments. you see, globalism itself is espionage against the nation state and against the people of the nation state, and now federal judges are releasing documents that are set to release documents exposing the full criminal extent of how president trump was spied on when he was a candidate, when he was president-elect and when he was president, and how they tried to shut him up and how they perjured themselves to congress. this thing is more than coming to a head. it's like a volcano when it explodes, and this is all being reported right now. we have major federal government watchdog groups, we have federal judges coming out and laying all this out, and if you're a team of your, we're putting the judges rulings on screen. all of it, but let me just get into the basic facts here, because this thing is like a cake that's been baked. we heard the ping on the timer that lets us know the next shoes about to drop. my sources told me a week ago, and it just got lost in the haze of battle. hey, get ready, they are going to indict people. they got three grand juries open and the word is: they're getting ready to indict. it's why the democrats are so damn scared. it's why they're bringing Mueller back. he doesn't want to testify. he knows that his mentor, bill bar, who brought him in- that's who brought him in- is has told him: you need to stop. trumps got the royal flush and unless you assassinate him, he's going to destroy him, and the president has been convinced to back off. but then they've broken the deal. the president doesn't want destabilization. he doesn't want this to happen to the fbi and the cia, but they're hopelessly corrupt sewers at the top. this is a long time deep state civil war coming to a head. i've documents on that as well. so real, clear investigations, uh and others break all this down. i've done deep research on this. i can tell you it's very, very accurate and it just lays out how bill bar has been trying to suppress all this. but now multiple federal judges have ordered that even more of the damning documents come out. and yes, stunningly, judge bossburg has ordered the archery declarations to be fully released to the public without redactions. and it goes through comies notes, everything that means, all those black boxes- the example above would have been removed. and so now the new groups of documents be released from a whole fake russia gate. that's really a blueprint of their crimes against the american people and against our electoral process- are going to be released unredacted. and so bill bar tried to protect the power structure. but the power structure was so hopelessly corrupt and senile and arrogant that they're continuing to attack. and so now trump is going on the attack, and that's really the big news here. there's so many things. are trumps going on the attack? the grand juries are out set to indict, i was told. judges are about to just release it all because if the agencies won't do it, trumps got judges that will. that's happening. we've been following every step of this and it's a giant world, a giant cosmology, to be like. if somebody told me described to me the lord of the rings trilogy, how do you describe about. you know, three books, thousands of pages. well, imagine trying to describe how big this is. but you've all been living it, you've all been seeing it. when you look at the arrogance of people like anthony, the fbi minion, fenetay, and the things that he's done and just how they believe that they're invincible and how they can get away with anything they want, that's just not the case. and again, he's been working as a consultant before and after it's cnn, bringing them the national security goodies, because trump would talk about something in a meeting and then he'd see it that night on cnn, but with lies added to it. and so trump started planting dis info and then he was figuring out who was in the meetings, who was doing it, what was happening. so imagine trying to run a government when you're surrounded by all these people who brag: oh, we don't listen to him, oh, when he signs an order, we just throw it away and hope he forgets about it. to where trump now has to carry around a little notebook with notes on what he's told to do and he has to go back through that notebook. never had to do that as a guy running hundreds of properties, thousands of properties, but he has to do it because in business, people get promoted for working hard and being smart and doing their job and being able to be counted on. in dc, they do it for being snakes. they get advanced for that. that's why it's not a swamp, it's a giant open-air sewer and you know what they do to everybody who's in us intelligence or who's in the corporate world. in dc they call it and they threaten you, they threaten your wife and they hack into your computers and they find out what investments you have and they start threatening your children at school. i'm not the government and i've had this stuff go on and they have been harassing thousands and thousands of people hardcore and most people go: whoa, i'll be a double agent. i'll claim i'm for trump by day but i'll work against trump by night. but the longer trump stays in almost three years now, they're out of gas. they're tired, they know they've committed crimes. they know there's grand juries open out there. they know that they're under scrutiny. they know that the actual people that work and defend the country are on trump's side and they see that hourglass almost empty in no time's up. that's why the left- oh, don't regulate big tech, because they were running it now that trumps about to move in on. oh yeah, we want to regulate. they want to get their hands in there to use it to prohibit our speech. not have laws that say: don't prohibit. the first amendment protects rights, doesn't take them. and if we don't have regulations against the censorship and against the combines and against the cartels, then the chinese communist and the globalist e, u and others will come in via the vacuum. and that's what ted cruise the president now say: we've already got europe regulating our internet. we built it. we're not going to let them. yes, i know how to talk to these people and i will tell you. we spearheaded the common sense to dc. you sit there and take google's money. in a couple years it'll be pure chai con. the money will even be cut off. so even if you only care about the money, you better take control of these to keep the money flow. going dumbass- and i'm not calling ted cruise a dumbass, the president, but i'm talking about the average person in congress- is a lowly bootlicking follower who was put into power because they climbed up the ranks of ass kissing like dung beetles rolling piles of crap around. i am affecting the world from the grassroots, building a whole new system, like we did with the republic. this is renaissance radio. this is the next level. this is the pro human future. next year's news today: info wars dot com. now we got something very interesting coming up. i'm not even gonna tell you until we land to this very interesting fish in the boat. we'll see if that happens. on the other side, more coming straight ahead. stay with us, fellow patriots. my name is todd savage, founder of black rifle real estate dot com. like you, i was a prisoner of the out left sanctuary state until one day i chose to leave my family to freedom. today we live on a sustainable 20-acre homestead where we shoot, hunt, garden and homeschool our children without the tyranny of the nanny state looking over us. if you're ready to flee the city to the freedom of idaho or montana, our black rifle real estate team is here to help. go to black rifle real estate dot com. that's black rifle real estate dot com. hunters, anglers, campers and survivalists: get back to nature. expand your horizons with the highest quality, most versatile, unique sling shots and sling bows on the market at sling bow dot com. sling bow products are compact and models start from just 1798. they're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle. give yourself and your loved ones the excitement and tradition of sling bow- a new frontier and archery and truly modern twist on this primitive survival tool. feel the thrill only at sling bow dot com. as we gather this evening in the joy of freedom, we remember that all share a truly extraordinary heritage. together we are part of one of the greatest stories ever told, the story of america. it is the epic tale of a great nation whose people have risked everything for what they know is right and what they know is true. as long as we stay true to our coast, as long as we remember our great history, as long as we never, ever stop fighting for a better future, then there will be nothing that america cannot do. in full wars dot com. tomorrow's news today: full power the republic in the name of jesus christ. full power, damn the torpedoes. go straight at them as we witness the most disastrous geological activity in recorded history, the globalists are backed into a corner and the leftists are pushing for civil war. borders are being broken and sovereignty is being challenged. the world is going to change and how it changes will likely be decided by those who are prepared to stay strong when the system fails. the system is vulnerable. electricity could be gone in an instant and grocery stores could be empty in three days. having storable foods and the ability to purify water will give you a fighting chance in the next level, and being without puts you at the mercy of others or makes you a slave to a dying system. buys storable foods and an alexa pure gravity water filter today. support mankind by being prepared and support freedom by buying from info war store dot com. the globalists are hyper competitive scientific dictators. they are technocrats, they are control freaks, in their own words, and they believe allowing you to live your own life and make your own decisions. hits are the way of their great destiny to merge with ai gods. now we're fighting them hard in cyberspace. we're fighting them hard right here in the third dimension. one of the biggest places that we neglect to forget that we've really got a lot of control in our lives is our bodies. if i wasn't taking the highest quality supplements for the forest life dot com, i couldn't do it. that's why we decided to take our original secret 12- that was incredibly high quality metal component- and double the strength of it in a new formula, ultra 12. ultra 12 is undoubtedly the strongest, highest quality b12 over the counter that you're going to find anywhere. it is amazing experience: pure medica, bollum and b12 for yourself and fund the second america revolution against the tyrants at info wars store dot com in force live dot com. or triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine. you're listening to the alex jones show live from the info wars dot com studios. you're listening to the alex jones show there. ain't nothing to listen to me, baby. well, jessica yoni is a transgender woman and is powerful lgbtq two s i a plus activists. she currently uh ran for miss bc and plans to run again 2020. lives in canada. she believes strongly in human rights and equality. she also is a well-known tech blogger and is on her 10th year running trusted nerd dot com, and so, um, it's, it's good to have you on with us. i know you're scheduled, or scheduled, for you to be on the war room with. i want shroyer today. uh, tell us, tell us, uh, a little bit about yourself- and i mean you're all over the news- what your main mission is. yeah, so my main mission is essentially human rights and lgbtq equality. um, like, i am a transgender woman and i was really seeking, uh, gender firming care services. when it was so, what things like when it comes to waxing, facials, pedicures, manicures, head massage, the whole nine yards- and i was pretty distraught to see the level of discrimination that is out there when it comes to people in the lgbtq trying to receive gender firming care services. it's, it's horrible and i did not feel right to just let this go. um, you know when, when they are, when these providers are willing to do services on someone who is a male and not a transgender, but an actual male, but they're unwilling to do it on a transgender woman or even a transgender, uh, male, um, that just i don't understand. that, okay, can i bring, because i've seen articles in the uk where the national health service, where a nurse, doesn't want to do a pap smear, uh, on a uh person calling themselves transgender. i'm not a libertarian. somebody wants to say they're a woman, whatever, but, but, but what about? what about when there's not a, a cervix? uh, that's like saying, you know, give me a root canal, but i don't have any teeth? yeah it, it's. it's different, um, it's different when it comes to things like, um, like gynecology, like myself- it's a little bit embarrassing, but i do have a gynecologist, um, i have been checked um. but but when it comes to like but when it comes to people that are that do not exactly need that service- for example, um cervical exams on on rather a biological man that doesn't need that- then yeah, that that i totally understand. uh, the refusal service when it comes to health, like a female doesn't need, like a biological female doesn't need to go in and get a prostate exam unless she's intersex and or has some sort of, some sort of um abnormality happening there. let me ask you this: why do you think all this transgenderism is so hot? why is it just everywhere? every children show, every tv program, every, it's just everywhere. you just it's everywhere. i think it's because we live in a new day and age. now, you know, think they're not the the way they used to be in the in the early 1990s. um, people are starting to really, really reaffirm their gender identity and come out as different genders, different gender expression, like gender, queer gender, fluid gender, nonconforming, non-binary. you never heard of those terms, um, about five, five plus years ago. you never heard about this. but now, as things become more open and more socialized, i think i'd say that's when you start to hear more and more and more of um of these cases happening. sure, let me raise this to you: i played football. i wasn't that good at it, uh, but i i played football. i was good enough when i was a freshman to be put on the varsity and get run over and then quit the next year. i couldn't handle it, uh, but i was good enough to get hurt real bad every game, but i was. i'm not a tough guy, but it was still weird to pull my clothes off and you know, and get naked around guys and the coaches would walk through and once a year they'd come in and do a test to make sure i didn't have a hernia, and you know what. the coach would stick his finger you know where, or or the, uh, the doctor would, and i didn't like that. and and my daughters are even more squeamish and stuff, and you know i have three daughters and sometimes i walk by their room and one of them's, you know, half naked and they freak out, oh dad. and slam the door like, like chris qualmo said a few years ago. he said like 12 year old girl should be ready to have a transgender man as a woman in the shower and if they see his genitals they shouldn't get upset. i don't think that's reasonable. i do um actually, because you know, there people want to start segregating um, uh, segregating sex and, from from what i see, i don't think the average women particularly want to be around a bunch of about a round, a bunch of swans. yes and no, yes and no. i i i do agree where, i do agree where you're getting out here. i do agree um, but i, i do agree that everyone has um, everyone has equal rights when it comes to this. and you know, if, if someone wants to transition um and and be a part of that um, of that sex or gender, then they should have the ability to do so without being uh. so i want to be clear: i don't hate anybody who wants to do anything they want with their, their body, but at the same time, i don't want to have to pay for it. that's where, yeah, i, i i see where you're getting at um. you know there there are organizations um in british columbia, where i reside, that uh, the bc got the. the government here does pay for gender confirmation surgery. they do pay, like the medical services fund here does pay, um does pay for uh, sex reassignment surgery and breast augmentation. i don't think they should pay for breast augmentation for a woman, a man, a trans. i don't think we should pay for a nose job. i know it's. you know the way the government sinks here. and in regards to um, in regards to which people should receive, which i do have some agreements. i do have some disagreements. i have some very strong um disagreements and that, and, for example, i did write to um our medicine, our medical services fund, which we call msp here, um, because what i found is, um, what i found is that they will fund breast um, or what they call chicken cutlets. they will. they will fund, um, basically, breast mastectomy, um plants but the stick on, or the ones that go inside of a, a broth from a secondary patient patient. but when it comes to, when it comes to someone that wants to uh try to get, wants to switch genders and doesn't have a full-sized breast, they won't cover that unless, well, i mean i think i think if people, it should be covered, if a woman has a breast removed from cancer, if she wants to have that fixed, but because you can't, because they didn't ask for the cancer, but but let me ask you this question: the latest controversy i saw was on news wars dot com and summit dot news. trans activists organizes topless swimming session for girls as young as 12, parents not allowed to be present. is that an accurate headline? that is, um, not exactly, not exactly. i'm i'm gonna, i'm gonna explain what exactly is going on with this um event. so there was an event um that was planned in the city of langley that was unfortunately shut down by um, unfortunately shut down by anti-lgbtq activists, and i was pretty, uh distraught when i saw this. you know, everyone has a right to to have their own event. you know, being topless is legal in canada. the actual event organizers are the ones, uh, that uh that came up with with this event, that being the langley use resource hub, to my recollection, because they're the ones that um that are being asked to call them for info- and essentially, um, essentially with this, essentially with this, the the event proposed that people would be able to be topless from age 12 to 24. it's all up to their um, their discretion and what they want and, as you can see, um that that's their original event. well, sure what? but what happens if an older person identifies as a 12 year old. you know we have that too, right, that's true. you know we, we can't be. we cannot be going around and policing um, policing gender, or policing um, policing people by their age. if someone says they are 12 year old, what do they say? they're blind and dumb. drain it when their eyes, though. should we pay for that? i'm sorry. what about what's about trans able? but, but i want to like. i appreciate you coming on. i mean, most folks you know that we argue with will not actually come on. this is amazing show, uh, and i also want to see if we want to go out on the date. so you know, see how that well, they're not. that folks stay with us. lovely lady, imagine if somebody told you 20 years ago that, in the future, universities would be saying don't use the term america or american, and that american flags will be seen as offensive and that federal courts would be ruling that it's a hate symbol. that's all happening. the left are fascist authoritarians, they're bullies, they're criminals, and now they're trying to make us take down the american flag. they're saying: the betsy ross flag, our original flag, is evil when she was an abolitionist. but people are fighting back in the symbol war, in this information war. at infowarstorecom they're funding our operation, getting great t-shirts, a bunch of great designs and standing up to the globalists. they're trying to shut down info wars- a true 360 win. so get your betsy ross flags and don't tread on me american flags, original designs at infowarstorecom- and stand up to the globalists, stand up to the tyrants and let them know these colors don't run. we're flying them proud, Robert Barnes. what does big tech become? a big tech? or big babies that have become big bullies. and the way they did so is because they face no consequence of social, economic, political or legal for their illicit activities over two decades, and because of that. that's why the courts, the judges, the juries, the members of the independent free press that care about this, the ordinary members of the public and the audience that care about this, have to bring real social, political, economic consequence to their course of conduct. otherwise they will never change and they will become the big tech oligarchs, the equivalent to the big trust of the 19th century who ran american politics and ran american economy almost into the ground until we were able to recover after the great depression. the info wars audience is the fuel that flames the the light of liberty across the world, to make real the actions of independent free speech, to make real the original promise of an independent free press. real collusion is big tech and big media: manipulating and working with each other to try to meddle with elections, to try to shake people's thoughts, and then the whopper of telling us the whole time it's not happening. it's the ultimate form of gaslighting. what you just saw isn't what you just saw. even it is what what you just saw. before i started working at info wars, i was not only a fan of alex jones and info warscom but also the products at info wars storecom. and there's one product that's offered at info wars storecom that is the elite of the supplements and that's dna force plus. now i remember when alex first started talking about this with some of his special guests- telomeres and telomere support with your dna- and so i started to look into the science and what telomeres were and how it can improve your health and longevity when you protect your telomeres. so i started looking into dna force plus, but it's expensive. why? because it is an elite supplement. and then i started seeing other competitors coming up with competitive supplements for telomere support and they came and they went, but dna force plus is still there. it is the elite supplement. i get excited when dna force plus is on sale because i know it's expensive, so you should take advantage of 50 off dna force plus at info war storecom. info wars, the most banned network in the world viewers and listeners. i wouldn't be here if it wasn't for you and we're under unprecedented evil attacks, as you've seen. but i wanted to take just a minute out here from the bottom of my heart to tell you how much it means to me that when you saw those lies against us last week- the worst things you can say about people that you knew they were liars- you went and looked it up and found out the truth, and so i feel very strong and i feel god's hand on my shoulder and i feel your love in my heart. i want you to know that love is right back at you and i want to thank you for all you've done with your word of mouth and your prayers, your financial support, because i'm committed to fight to the end. but i want to win and without you i'm going to be destroyed and it's not going to be fun, but that's not what's important. the enemy could win. we're a key chess piece in this fight. we're being used by god. you're being used by god. this is providence. so i salute you and i thank you for all you've done from the bottom of my heart. you're listening to the alex jones show. jessica yanov is a transgender from canada, and we only got this segment, maybe one more, so we got to move quickly here. i want to break this down. um, we have photos, uh, here in articles, with you, um, you know, at these events- or what are these events where? where you're in bathrooms and i've got some of the tweets here and some of the things, uh, that you say here. what is this activism? what are you doing here? yeah, all of those tweets- except for that middle one over there and the ones on the right- are all fake, um, essentially. so that's why i appreciate you coming on, because you know you're quite the sensation online. this way, you get to actually say something. yeah, i don't. i still. i'm so trying to figure out who did this. um, i am presuming that this is an anti-lgbtq activist. um, i kind of have my suspicions on who it is, but i'm not going to say exactly who, um, because i can't but um, but no, i didn't write any of that, sure, sure, what did you mean earlier by you can't discriminate by age? what does that mean? well, what? what i mean by that is like: oh, i'm going to give an example. last night, my mom tried to book me for a facial and what happened with that is the. the person on the other side, uh, then asked her: how old is your transgender daughter? uh, to which she replied 32, and then, um, both of us were refused service, not only um and on, on several protected grounds actually- and this is going to go before the tribunal- but um, but essentially, essentially on family status, gender identity, expression, sex, um, and what's the? and also age as well. so i'm just asking the question: if you're a woman, because i'm not big into, i might have had one pedicure, one manicure in my life, and i've, and i've been on a cruise before my ex-wife and they said, hey, you want his and hers facials. they did this facial, put cream on my face and did all this. i mean, they weren't asking man or woman, they just said: you want a facial. so how does i don't even get how they're like. you're on the line, i'm a transgender, i'm getting a facial and they're like: no, i mean well, exactly the the. the problem, the problem that we have where i reside is there's quite um quite racialized cultural groups here that do not believe in transgenderism and they believe that they have the right, um, they believe that they have the right to review service on any basis that they want, including that, oh, let me guess, because most of- i mean, like i'd say, 70% of the nails and facial stuff is it? is it vietnamese or asians? uh, it's kind of a mix, it's like. like, the way i explained it to the tribunal is, when you deal with things like waxing, it's usually vietnamese or east indian, um, or taiwanese. it's, you know, in their culture they're not, or any culture. you're not supposed to touch anybody's. if you're a woman, you're not supposed to touch another man's penis unless it's your husband. i know, but since when do we have a penis on our forehead? so so i don't understand. why would we want to make a woman? i'm just asking why we want to make a woman if it's her religious or cultural thing that maybe she's a bit, has been with one man in her life, i mean most, even wild women i've known, you know right away, aren't just ready to jump in the sack, well then, how do you think a woman is ready to touch her? i just don't get that. but you see here, here's the thing: if, if we start refusing, refusing people, um, if we start refusing people for things such as facials, just because we claim religion, then we run into a very, very, very dangerous. president, the way you're saying facials, the case i saw was you wanted a bikini wax on your testicles, correct, and i also wanted an arm wax too, and i got refused service because, uh, because the respondents claimed that they're seek and that their husband will not allow them to, to do service on a biological man. you see, this is listen, i don't want my wife touching other other men's genitals. no, no, no, not about the one of my wife did bikini waxes. yeah, okay, and what if she did that? and then a dude, you know a man, comes in who says he's a woman and then he wants my wife to polish his johnson. you know, in in this day and age, with the, with the bt human rights code and the kini human rights code, if someone identifies as a woman, they have to receive the gender affirming care services. that's uh, wow, that's a lot. you know, i don't think this is gonna work out well because- because here's my deal- i don't mind and i don't hate somebody if they are a man who feel like they're a woman and their brain might be feminine or something, and then there's genetics in it or whatever. there's some evidence that's going on. i don't hate anybody. but when they try to make other people comport to what they want, like like almost all the the sprinting, almost all the power lifting, from australia to the us, to canada's, being won by biological men who have twice the size bones, twice the muscle, on average, they even have their genitals, so they have testosterone. well it men, biological men, are going to win every competition in the world now, rendering women's sports obsolete, whether it's basketball or football or hockey, it'll be all biological men- nice, pretty hair, nice fingernails, but it'll be. it'll be biological men, and women will be obsolete in sports. is that, is that inclusive? no, and and and that's actually where i i agree with you when it comes, when it comes to things such as sporting competitions and such- and i had, i had quite a um, i had quite a discussion about this with, uh, the good friend of mine, um, named lin, um, especially in regards to the article you just pulled up, um, i don't agree with um. i i don't agree with transgender, um, transgender identifying individuals going into sports and winning competitions when they still have a heavy, heavy, heavy level of testosterone. and i'm gonna give you an example here: uh, before i transitioned, i had quite a, uh, quite a high testosterone level, um, and then i started hormone replacement therapy. and when you start hormone replacement therapy, those, those pills, essentially, essentially, eliminate your testosterone. like what i had, as was a level of 14, i now have a level of 1.2, uh, for example, on my testosterone. so what i do believe is that these, these individuals can compete if their testosterone levels are below, uh, below a certain number, that being like below four or well above the hell. but i don't, i don't agree, i don't agree with um, i don't agree with transgender females pumping themselves up with testosterone to even get above what, um, what a biological male would, because that gets into risky territory. i've heard of cases where people are breaking, breaking necks, breaking bones, breaking everything. well, sir, i'll say this, i'll say this: humans change their environment. we build our own structures, we change ourselves. that's a human trait. but the whole trans movement, beyond changing sex, is getting us ready for brain chips, elan musk, uh, merging with computers, and it's being pushed, and so the whole eugenics movement is is using the trans movement as kind of a way to open the door. but, but, but, let's go into this, and i appreciate you joining us. what about some of these other articles? i mean, describe to me, where are you? you say you're in a bathroom, or is that fake too? where you're, where you're taking photos of women, or young, young women inside bathrooms. that photo that you obviously referred to was taken literally, um, literally, like the day that i switched my, um, my gender, to legally the female. um, i was stupid and i shared that on a group. um, i actually shared it on a group that i kind of knew i would get attacked, but i did it anyway because i was stupid. uh, what essentially happened with that is what you see there. if people took it and they, it was something like called the rent room, if i remember correctly. so so did you tweak this right here? nope, nope, not at all, but you did take the photos. why would i? that's the thing, okay, well, i'm sure you're familiar. are you familiar with the work. i do, i am so so. so why did you decide to come on here? because, let me tell you, nobody on the left, or whatever you want to call it, will come on here. they come on tucker show and you know i just want to hear what people have to say because you know i'm not ashamed of who i am and that's why i i i watch your show and that's why i thought, you know, i'm gonna come on this show, because there's a lot of issues here. there's a lot of serious issues that come on play, and the the most serious issue and the reason for all these complaints is: this is not about what: boxing, this is not essentially about gender frame of care. this is about the ability for someone to refuse service because to anyone that they want, because because of what they want, even if that person belongs to a protected class. for example, if you have, if you have a cop that walks into a donut shop and the donut shop owner says, no, i don't want to serve you because you're a cop, that would technically be sure that's wrong, but but but it's not. it's not if the cop walked in and said: wax my, my male genitals, i'm a woman, that would be different. but okay, let me ask you this: what, what, what, what's your? what's your perspective on being rejected for, um, an arm wax, like literally something that is sticking out there. everyone sees it. it's not hidden in your, in your pants. what's your? um, what's your? but if, if the vietnamese women have had one man they've been with, i mean women- even if a woman's a slut, she doesn't just randomly want guys to pull their ding dong out. they want to be involved, they want to be in charge, they want to be in control. it's a power thing. to make a woman shave your testicles and wax your ding dong is abusive in my view. come back, i want to get your take on that. it's never been easy to figure out the essentials of a new supplement routine. that's why we created the eight pack power stack, your go-to option for the building blocks of a successful approach to supplementation. this one stop shop for those looking to simplify or adjust their routine is perfect for new and old info warriors alike. with the eight pack power stack, there's no trial and error, messy bottles laying across the counter or 20 minute morning habits. just take the wake up and work or rest and recover packs each day for quick, easy to use and conveniently accessible formulas to help you reach your peak, without the deep supplement knowledge, stacks of bottles and complicated routine featuring eight different formulas for a total take on your health and wellness. you can find what you like and get even more powerful versions in the store. head to infowarstorecom and check out eight pack power stack today and jump start your supplement routine. let's talk to marcus in new york. marcus, here on the air, thanks for holding hey. i just want to say, uh, your show is a breath of fresh air. i talked to a lot of people here out in new york city and one thing i could tell you is that almost nobody agrees with these wars. i think that the neocons are trying desperately to get trump to go to a war because they know that that's the only way that they could defeat him in the eyes of the public. the approaching 2020, that's it. i mean. if trump buys into this, it'll be the end of his presidency. it's the only way i think he can be defeated, other than assassinating him. it's the time to be praying, my friend. i agree entirely, and the last thing i just want to say, alex, is: i know they're trying to shut you down, but the reinforcements have arrived. man, i would love to see you on air until you're 80 years old. i would love to see what you're talking about when you're 80, but if they do, shut you down, no, you've gone into this war. you've won a lot of battles and there are a lot of people like myself and many others who are going to continue. we're going to keep fighting in the info war and even if something does happen to you or your show, know for a fact that you've gotten a lot of people fired up for liberty. thank you, sir, for calling. you're listening to the alex jones show defending the republic from enemies, foreign and domestic. it's alex jones. jessica yana is a transgender, male to female, and he's coming on the show. so i'm being nice here. but we've got a esthetician here, that's. it's also trained to be a producer doing a great job. becca, and she was explaining that what you're trained to do, she says she's done. you know, laxing of men, men get that. it's totally different. you got to be trained. that's a whole other issue. she's going to pop in in a moment. but what about these articles that that say you're just a predator that wants to get around. uh, young girls, what about exclusive 15 year old alleged victim uh, of you supposedly speaks out. it's a big article out of the post millennial. you know, you're going to these courts, you're saying these people are abusing you, not laxing you. but other people are stepping forward saying that, hey, you know we're being harassed by this person. what, what's your take on that? you know, uh, you know. one thing i want to say about the post millennial is, um, it's to my understanding that the, that the council, the, the, the owner of the law firm that is counsel to the respondents, own supposed millennialcom. they have published the found material articles about me day in and day out. but i, i really want, i really want to get to something important here, because i do believe that this is important. you know, going back to the refusal of service, you know they, they're essentially saying that you know we won't do service on a man or transgender. but transgender also means, uh, female to male. i have a friend, her name, his name is um, is taylor, and he, you know he, he's female to male. so what's essentially how happening here is they are also refusing service on transgender males, that being ones that also have 100 percent. Well, let me raise this. you have record levels of autism and record levels of suicide, mental illness and transgendered. a lot of people don't want to deal with a mental health issue. What do you mean? Well, you're, you're, you're actually well spoken and and holding your own, but i mean a lot of times you see a crazy transgender bank robber or the men. i mean the statistics are there that there are a lot of autistic people and stuff that that uh end up getting tricked when they're young to being- quote other sex. let's bring in Becca, uh, who is a- uh, you know, skin expert. that's what an esthetician she wanted to say something. go ahead, hey, Jessica, nice to meet you. hey, hi. so, working as an esthetician for 10 years and actually worked in san francisco, so i had a lot of male clientele, uh, gay people, straight people, transgender. i've done it all and- and i know i was actually pretty rare in the industry- there's not a lot of people that do that type of service. i'm just wondering if it's an actual discrimination issue or if you're just encountered someone who was not trained in that service. i mean, it is quite different. there's a lot of different training involved. how do you consider that well, i've. i've approached 16 different places of asking for waxing and every single one of them refused service. now i i do want to see, like i do have an expert witness um joining me for my hearing on the 26? um. that is an uncontested hearing that's clumped with three people. but but hold on, we got to have you back on. you're on the war room today. i think Becca should go on with oh and short to keep the discussion going. just let me just say this: isn't it a first world problem that you're having to sue over? uh, women won't wax your, your, your tallywacker. there is there's one really important fact here that i want to bring up, and i want Becca to affirm that that a brazilian is not um. a brazilian it's not gender, um, gender assigned meaning. it's not, it's not implicitly female. as Jessica, would you wax my butt, what? what a brazilian wax means? what a brazilian wax is? it's a. it is a wax from the belly button down to the anus and it's removing. i can't do this anymore. hold on, you're going to be on the war room, right? you agree to come on with Owen shroyer? uh, you're coming up in a couple hours on there, right? i'm sorry you're going to be on Owen shroyer show. yeah, i am okay, Becca, you want to come on with him so you can finish up today? i would love to. yeah, she's going to be on with Owen shroyer. what time are you on? i believe she was 30 my time. okay, so that's like 4: 30 today. this is going to continue in four wars dot com four slash show. lord moch that's coming up. thank you, Becca. i talk about this on the air and i know it sinks into people, but i've decided that we're going to kind of reboot all our supplements in that if you go back five, six years ago, before all the censorship and attacks and fake lawsuits, the rest of it- i would talk about how great the products are and how they were the best and why they were, and i'd have doctors on our experts to explain why they were so good. and instead the last few years, i'm like, hey, we need to really support us or they'll shut us down. the biggest thing people like to buy is supplements because they know how great they are and how wonderful they were, and the left always has headlines everywhere. jones sells unapproved supplements that he claims are supplements. no, under federal law since 1996. you can't say that a supplement has been through the FDA because they have no jurisdiction and won't look at it. but then they say you've got to say it's not approved by them and all drugs are. is the system trying to tweak what's in mother nature and manipulate it and do different things? and a lot of drugs work great. they have side effects, not with mother nature. but big pharma doesn't want you knowing about god's medicine, chest info or store dot com or triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine. well, joining us is lord christopher montan, and without him we would definitely have a global carbon tax, will be the heart of a world government surveillance, control and taxation system, with courts empowered to shut down businesses. you name it. well, there's been some huge scientific studies that have come out in the last month that have gotten almost no attention. i've seen four of them. and lord montan is going to be in dc for a critical meeting. he takes off tomorrow. he's going to be there friday. we're going to be talking to him then. we're going to be getting the latest throughout the weekend. but i really appreciate him coming on to give us an update on the latest, because if it wasn't for lord montan, and if it wasn't for some of the other folks that are out there, we would be up the creek without a paddle, and his best website is what's up with that dot com. so, lord christopher montan, thank you for helping us not already be in a new dark age. well, alex, it's wonderful to be with you again and, uh, yes, i will be in washington dc at the trump international hotel. i arrived there tomorrow and i speak there at the lunchtime keynote speech at the 13th heartland international climate conference. and this is a great gathering of the clans, all the gallant climate scientists who have put up with the vilification of the hard left over the years and have continued quietly to do their research. they'll all be there. so if you haven't booked yet, then get on to heartlandorg and make sure you make a last-minute booking and get yourself to the trump international hotel, washington dc. the conference starts at eight in the morning on thursday the 25th and runs all day, and i'll be speaking at lunchtime. i've got the half hour lunchtime slot and what i'll be doing, alex, is explaining to the eminent climate scientists and researchers who are there that a team of 10 scientists led by me, including three professors, has identified and can now prove that the climate scientists made a mistake 40 years ago. it was actually a communist at nasa who made the mistake. we've tracked it down who it was and how he did it, and that mistake means that they have multiplied all their mid-range best estimates of how much global warming we might cause by three. so if you correct for the error, the global warming problem disappears, and in my half hour talk tomorrow i'm going to be explaining just enough about what we found so that any scientists looking at it can go and check with his colleagues and say, are these people right or aren't they? and the answer is going to be: well, we certainly can't rule it out. we think we're very close now to bringing this whole climate scare finally to an unlimited. well, that's very exciting, but i want to get the 35 000 foot view as well. i also saw articles out of nasa the last year where they went actually carbon dioxide is helping plants grow and actually the temperature looks like it's actually not just stopped, it's slowing. i mean i suddenly see nasa, uh, basically agreeing with all the mainline scientists. this is a very interesting development. for some time nasa satellites have been showing- and you've got the slide up there now that uh, the earth is greening and this, this is called the net primary productivity of plants, which is a long phrase for the total mass, the total biomass, of all the trees and plants on earth. not withstanding all you hear about deforestation and land clearance and so on, there is actually more green stuff- about 15 to 30 percent more, depending on which research paper you. when i used to come to austria to visit my grandmother, it looked like a desert. it looks like the brazil. now, well, this, of course, is the wonderful thing. what is happening is that the co2 in the atmosphere was too little to be good for uh plants, and now they're beginning to be able to breathe more easily. and this has two effects. you've got some very good illustrations there on the screen. it has two effects. the first thing it does is that it fertilizes the plant. co2 is plant food. you won't hear this from greenpeace and all the the communist extremists, but co2 is plant food. the, the, the carbon in the tree trunks, for instance, doesn't come from the ground. it comes from the co2 in the air, and there was almost not enough of it there. so the fact that we've now pushed up the concentration of co2 by about 40 percent over the last 100 years. plants and trees are absolutely loving this, because that's what makes them and that's how the lord works- in mysterious ways, talk about this. they've studied mars. they probably lost its atmosphere in its oceans because it couldn't hold them in, and we would have gotten in that position- i mean, we weren't one of the lowest points of co2 in history, correct until this little bump. this was a, this was a god. that's why it had been declining for four million years, and had it gone on for another couple of million years at its present rate of decline, all trees and plants on earth would have died. we have now, by putting 40 percent more co2 back into the atmosphere from which it originally came, and when it was there, the planet didn't fry. now all the plants are thanking us for that, and that's key. it was stored under the, it was stored in the crust. we now bring it back up and reboot the planet. that's got to be god. well it is. it is certainly carrying out god's work. let's say we are restoring what the, what nature, had begun to take away, and we're making it possible for life to continue and flourish much more luxuriously on earth than it could otherwise have done. and you're quite right. i mean, we just take the sahara, for instance. as far back as 1981, nicholson et al, a team of scientists, reported that 300 000 square kilometers of what had been sandy desert had been turned green by the extra water vapor in the air which you get if the air gets a little bit warmer worldwide. this extra water vapor helps the plants and likewise when there's more co2 in the air, the stomata, which are the little mouths on the underside of the leaves which allow the plants to breathe in the co2, but they also lose water through their stomata. they don't need so many of them and the plants are already adapting by growing fewer stomata because there's now more co2. that means they lose less of the water they do get when it rains and that means you get a double effect of preserving plants and trees in areas where it was only 40 years ago far too arid for them to survive and that's so critical. that means you'd drought areas, higher co2- and i've seen the studies was like some plants can have half as much water- i was reading- as long as co2 is a little bit higher and they don't die. if we could, if we could double the co2 in the air, drought virtually worldwide would cease to be a problem. it's already declining quite sharply. i mean, the palmer drought severity index, which measures the overall severity of droughts around the world, hasn't changed in a hundred years. but what has changed in the last 40 years is that the area of land under drought has declined. there's less and less drought happening, and the reason for this is the co2 in the air. well, sure, when i said god, i meant god's master plan, ward montan, looking back on this, how carbon is stored. you know from all of the alluvial things that have been deposited by the plants and animals in life that's died, the producing crude oil we then discovered 150 years ago- pump it up, put it out right at the time- that we're starved for this critical. you know one fourth of the life cycle on the planet in the carbon cycle: water, what, what? sunlight, carbon dioxide, oxygen, and then now we're terraforming the planet back to a better place. and, as you said, it's mainstream news that the sahara is now being reclaimed by greenage. that's exactly it. that's a very large areas of the sahel, which is the southern sahara, really dry, one of the poorest places on earth because it was so dry is now beginning as it was seven thousand years ago. until about seven thousand years ago, when the nile dried up, that was one of the most luxuriant places on the planet. now look at it. so this? we're now putting back the co2. we're therefore putting back the plants and trees in areas where they never have been before and they're self seeding. we're not actually going out into the sahel and planting them. they're finding their own way there, just as they have countless, countless times before throughout the long and ancient history of this planet. and what people are beginning to realize. even nasa is beginning to wake up to the fact that if you go on and on and on beating this global warming drum, you're missing the most important half of the story, which is that co2 is actually good for us, it's good for plants, it's good for all life on earth and we want more of it and not less of it. professor will happen at princeton has been making this point for a couple of decades. he, as you know, is the man who is advising president trump on climate change strategy and he is saying to him: you do not need to take any measures whatsoever to restrict the amount of co2 going into the air. indeed, not only do you not need to do that, you should not do that, because the extra co2 is good for everyone, it's glad, works a mysterious way. stay there, lord mocked it. i mean. the earth is starving for co2. then we discover giant underground sources and terraform. maybe not today, maybe not tomorrow, but soon you'll need a plan and place to survive. forget bunkers. you're not a live underground gopher. you need survivalist camps, the ultimate fully functional, off-the-grid mobile survival bug outhouse that's well equipped and custom built to outlast any other rv or trailer. bold statement: you bit. see him now at survivalist camps dot com. that's survivalist camps dot com. trust your family survival to survivalist camps dot com. hi, i'm dan pilla. i started fighting the irs over 40 years ago when they tried to seize my mother's house. i sued the irs and won. i beat the irs then and i've been beating them ever since. i wrote the book on tax debt settlement and i've helped thousands of people deal with tax problems they thought might never be solved. i can help you too. if you owe taxes you can't pay, don't wait another day. there's no such thing as a hopeless tax case. call 834 no tax, or go to my website, dan pilla dot com. that's dan pilla dot com. dan pilla dot com. heart disease is on the rise. clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected by you, but the symptoms are there. loss of energy, blood sugar spikes and drops, poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong here. how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives across america. my and blood pressure has normalized. my diabetes has totally improved. everyone is telling me now how much healthier i look and i'm telling everyone how much healthier i feel. i recommend heart and body extract to everyone. anybody over 40 in the north american continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy. order your two-month supply today by calling 866-295-5305- that's 866-295-5305- or order online hbextractcom- heart and body extract 866-295-5305 or hbextractcom. serving with info wars is a great honor, but i still need my morning coffee and luckily our break room at the info wars headquarters is stocked full of high quality info wars store patriot blend coffee grown in the high mountains of southern mexico. the chiapas farmers grow 100 organic, non-gmo coffee at the ideal altitude for the perfect cup: a robust coffee with great flavor and mild acidity. there has never been a more important time to support info wars. so if you love coffee and if you want to fight for freedom, then you can help. order now at the info wars store, sign up for auto ship and get your own high quality supply of patriot blend coffee delivered right to your door at infowar store dot com. subscribe star dot com. forward slash alex jones. that's where the next adventure against tyranny begins. that's where i'm going to be posting exclusive content seven days a week in the fight for human freedom worldwide. that's where people that are at the third tier will get a free special edition t-shirt and more. subscribe star alex jones. search it today. it's a super hot site. it's pro freedom, it's pro free speech. it's exploding right now. we're very excited to be involved at subscribe star, so be sure and join me at subscribe star dot com. forward slash alex jones for the next level of the human revolution against tyranny. when you subscribe today, you will see information, you will see videos, you will see articles, you will see documents you won't see anywhere else. at subscribe star dot com. forward slash alex jones. so subscribe today for exclusive content nowhere else on the worldwide web. subscribe star dot com. forward slash. alex jones. you're listening to the alex jones show. you're listening to the antidote for fake news. it's alex jones. well, it's raining. folks from the uk here. paul joseph watson comes up in the next two segments into the fourth hour today. or chris romontons, our guest, and he's in dc tomorrow giving a speech from hotel. uh, i wish i could go. i've got family stuff i gotta take care of and some things here, but i'd love to fly him down, invite him down, to come out of austin co-host with us. uh, here in the next few days, uh, but just just pulling back from this. you're always a scientist. you were margaret thatcher's chief advisor on science- uh, some said her chief advisor total. you've been around a long time. you're a famous inventor. you're a successful businessman. you parachuted into climate accords in durban, south africa, when they were censoring. you've been beaten up in. you know paris at, at, at climate accords, i mean, i mean, i mean the left's really trying to shut you down. but you, you keep arguing about science. obviously, climate changes, obviously things are going on. they want control of all human activity. they want to make industry able so they can tax and control it and the world's woken up for this because china, india, nobody else will sign on to it. but but what is the current state of their scams? what is the current state of their power grab? because you can keep state and all these studies you know, showing all their claims are a fraud. i think the world knows it's a fraud and we should go after them for the fact that they have developed a fraud and that they're trying to outlaw people questioning them. let me pick up on this word fraud, because that, alex, is exactly what it has become. i mean, what happened when we first submitted our paper explaining this huge error right at the heart of climate science to a leading journal- i won't say which one, so as to spare its blushes- and it looks as though the police are going to have to be called in to start investigating some of this. the first thing that he was. they said: we can't find anyone competent to review this paper. well, that was nonsense. so we said: come off it. it's your job to find people competent to review the paper and if not, we can supply plenty of names on both sides of this debate who would be competent to review this paper. so they gave up on that one. and then they they sent it out for review and after six months they had got precisely two reviews, alex. one of them said this: i do not like the conclusion that this paper comes to. therefore, i have not read the paper and i have not read the equations justifying the conclusion. that was supposed to be a scientific peer review. the other one said: i have not reviewed the main paper at all. i have read an ancillary paper with an experiment where we had demonstrated how this works by building a test rig. and he said: oh, the experiment wasn't done, right, well, it was, but it was done by one of our national laboratories. so so we wrote to the editor and said: look, this isn't good enough. we want to appeal against this. so he said: okay, you can send the paper back to me for review. so we spent another few months trying to see if we could stiffen it up to stop this kind of thing happening. we sent it to him again and got no reply. we sent it to him another time and we got no reply. they have that hope that there's total, 100% consensus that we're all going to die. AOC says the earth ending in 12 years. it's just insane. all of this is nonsense. i mean alexandria occasio cortez. she is, of course, a former barkeep and is therefore no expert on the climate or anything else much. and the new slogan, which i understand that the republicans are adopting, is: make alexandria bartend again, because her green new deal is heroically absurd. and, as you were saying earlier, alex, this is indeed about concentrating all power over every tiny aspect of every person's life in the hands of the far left. did they get this idea? they got it from a particular division of the european far left called the national socialist workers party of germany, the nazi party. if you ever read mind camp, which is deeply unpleasant, oh, that's where the. that's why he loved IBM, because hollerith and the machines could- could track every human activity. the nazis wanted to do that, all of that. but the other thing that they wanted to do was to invent an environmental policy. they were the first and they didn't want to do it because the environment was at risk. after all, it's been around for four and a half billion years. he said: to control populations, we've got to control people, and hitler actually says so explicitly in mind camp. the idea was then picked up by the russians. they then began, particularly when the Berlin wall came down and they still wanted to influence the west. they began funding the anti-fracking groups in britain, for instance, because putin is trying to sell gas from Siberia, which is his only major source of income from overseas. that's what putin is making his fortune out of, and they want to be able to go on selling gas to the european union, whose commissars they control effectively, so that the commissars make sure that most countries in the european union are obliged. i agree, lord monson, we're out of time. i want to invite you back on for a full hour soon. just briefly, you got to come on again about the geopolitics, about trump, about where all this is going. just how would you, in 60 seconds, break down the, the makeup of what's happening in the world right now? a revolution by populace and nationalist against globalists? well, that's exactly what's happened with trump. it's now happened here in the uk today, because Boris Johnson has, thank goodness, become our prime minister at last. he nearly did three years ago. we wish he had. he is now our prime minister, thank heavens, and he is going to fight the globalists in the EU just as mr trump is fighting: fighting the globalists at the EU. he's going to do what they didn't do. i'm sorry he's going to do what they didn't do. he's very determined to make sure that we leave the european union. parliament is very determined to stop him. but the people voted for brexit and he is going to do his level best to make sure that what the people voted for they actually get, whether parliament likes it or not. and if parliament stands in his way, this is going to be a metaphor for the rest of the world: fighting this ghastly socialist, totalitarian blob. we're going to go and get them, we're going to defeat them and we are going to leave the EU and other countries will very swiftly follow. beautiful, please come back on as soon as you can and godspeed, with a speech tomorrow. the invitation to fly to austin is open. thank you, lord christopher montan. again, the best websites. what's up with that dot com? thank you, bless you all. right, i forgot to plug last hour. ladies and gentlemen, we don't plug, we're not going to be here. we have a new giant special going: 50% off: dna force plus and we also have 50% off the great tri iodine x3 and the great x2. that just is about to come back into stock, so doesn't get her till next week, but i'm still taking orders and saying it's there, it up selling out and we've got a lot of other specials as well. but take advantage of that. in all info wars, life storeable foods that are just my patron supply, private label, so we're able to get around some of the rules. they have the distributors to give you even more often anybody else. high quality storeable foods, highest quality, last 25 years. that's all 50% off as well. and we have back in stock the vanilla, coconut and chocolate peanut butter: no fillers, no additives. they're like coffee, they're so pure, they're so big, at half the price you get at Whole Foods. these are amazing protein bars, info wars, life dot com. they are back in stock, the two different types of those. and when you just buy the coffee by the toothpaste, by the fish oil, by the things you need already, it funds this operation to face the globalist and i salute you all and thank you for that. i've got a lot of big stuff cooking and that's why we got some projects that need money to fund. you've seen what we've done to the globalist bet on info wars. again, my friends, you'll see stuff you can't even imagine. you can't tell you about it until it's history, though, execute operations. i realize i needed help to fix my problem before it totally destroyed me. if you've tried to fix your drinking and drug problem and you know you can't do it alone, you need to call the national treatment advisors. they'll immerse you into a 30 day program to replace your old habits with new habits and totally change your life. and if you have ppo, private health insurance, the entire program may be covered. fix your problem right now, before it gets any worse. get clean. call now and learn more. 800 506 6740. 800 506 6740, that's 800 506 6740. the globalist hate free speech and they hate empowering the people. the entire dying dinosaur corporate media- cnn, msnbc- bombard the public with anti-american, anti-family, anti-god, anti-gun messages. people are sick of it. well, subscribestarcom exploded. we have our own account is subscribestarcom and six days a week, money through friday and then on sundays under the sunday show, i'm going to take questions off subscribestar. will you private message me and i'm going to answer those questions on air starting today. so info warscom is a great place to visit a subscribestarcom forward. slash alex jones is the place to ask direct questions and i will answer them on air. so be sure and join me during the week, they show your questions answered. i mean, the x2 has really done a lot for me. i've lost weight. my brain works a whole lot better. i think my kids, they use the toothpaste. my son used to get these little sore throats and he puts x2 in water and drinks it and it gets rid of his sore throat. well, sir, let me break this down for you. i want i quality stuff in there, i want a good price, but i've kind of habituated everybody to where everybody buys when it's 50% off. i'm making two dollars on the toothpaste, 50% off, and so it's the same thing like the fish oil or the turmeric or the bone broth. thank you so much for the plugs, but listen, when people get the, a lot of times it makes things a loss leader, because if you're already getting 10% off because you're on auto ship and then we're doing 50% off and then you do something like that, we have patriot points, we lose money. that's okay. thanks for the support. last night i'm on info warscom and i read chris pratt criticized for t-shirt choice. it is literally the shirt that i envision: a betsy ross, but also another, just classic american flag: all 50 stars with the gads and snake superimposed over and on the back: americasbackinfowarscom. but what's better than just an american flag about a don't tread on me under the flag? take, don't tread on the american flag. it's a perfect combo. so great minds think alike. i mean, whoever designed that shirt? we'd already come up with the exact same, similar design. it is the don't tread on me american flag t-shirt, inspired by the triggering of leftist of the shirt worn by chris pratt, but it's a, you know, battle tattered flag, like the one that flew over fort sumpner. and again on the back it says americasbackinfowarscom- 4000 of these babies. and that's it. so we've got the betsy ross version and the american flag version at infowarstorecom. you're printed in the usa right now. infowarstorecom. we'll be right back, the most banned broadcast in the world, crashing through the lies and disinformation. it's alex jones. well, we had jessica yanavi, or however you say it, on earlier. she's going to be back on the war room today and that should be interesting. we got into a lot of it. we kind of dodged the question. she dodged the question about why are you trying to organize 12 year olds to meet topless at a pool? that parent shouldn't be there sounds like pedophilia. i mean i brought that up, she, he dodged it. but we'll see on the war room today coming up. but for the next hour and 27 minutes or so, paul joseph watson- identifies as a northern england sheffield patriot- is going to be hosting the broadcast and i appreciate that because i've got a lot of fish in the grease, i got a lot of irons on the fire, i got a lot of stuff going on that i can't tell you about until it's done, but for everything you see in force do, that's only the tip of the iceberg, the tip of the spear and your funding of our operation at the tip of the spear. so i just want to briefly tell you about this because you know i put this right up together just a few days ago because i want to rebrand things, not just say: buy our products, because you know you need to support us. buy our products because when we didn't have iodine in our food, the IQs dropped 15 points. the government added it for a while they went up 15 points. now they've taken it out and guess what? they've gone down even more than that. here are all the mainstream news articles breaking it down. so we have x3, that's the deep earth crystal pure iodine and then two other types to help it absorb, and we have the x2. it's 50% off, even though it's the best seller, because i want you to get it. and it's not just a gimmick. it's like: hey, trumps gonna get elected, nationalists are gonna get elected everywhere. we're gonna take on the new world order. we're gonna turn the tide. jerry epstein's a giant, you know, child pornographer, controller, blackmailing people for for massage, and criminal elements of the CIA. it's all coming out. i told you the white house is being illegally spied on and how it was happening. now it's mainstream news. now the indictments are being announced. so that's what i'm saying is, i don't tell you that iodine is a game changer, it is amazing, and that you can't find real iodine almost anywhere. that's not made up. that's the truth. info or storecom, enforce lifecom and then we get the funding to wreck the globalist future. we've already devastated the enemy, but they're striking back. we just secure a pro human future and we're doing it together. info wars, lifecom, info wars, storecom, or triple 82533139, even if you don't get iodine from us, please, please. the globalist are obsessed with putting bad allergens in to block the good: iodine, the fluoride, the chlorine, the bromide, the bromine. please learn about x2 and x3. they're both apples and oranges. just look at it, learn about it. some other big specials: 50% off. it's been sold out for a while. big shipment came in: DNA force plus the Rolls Royce, the Ferrari, of telomere protection and of mitochondrial protection and of just overall kick assedness info or storecom. it's the house you built, it's the house under attack, it's the house that must be secured. for the next pack, Paul Joseph Watson takes over for the next hour and 23 minutes and seven seconds. thanks, Alex. yeah, i'm continuing to talk about Jessica you need. obviously, you just had on the show earlier because, lo and behold, some new information. the succulent goblin, as he's done well, she, Alex, let's, let's be careful because she let's respect those pronouns, because these people are in control of the world. now she has already got two people banned on Twitter for not referring to her as a she. so that's what i'm going to do because, again, this is clown world and these people run it. now new information has come out about alleged chat conversations on Facebook between Jessica you need and then 14 year old girl who was about to turn 15 sexually suggestive conversations on Facebook. imagine my shock because we didn't see this coming all along, did we? and just as she denied being behind those tweets during the interview, claiming they were fake, she is also claiming that this chat log is fake, despite the post millennial who came out this story asserting that it's completely true. now, if they were going to create a bunch of fake posts which basically characterize someone as a pedophile, that's going to be a gimme in terms of a lawsuit, so i don't know why they would want to create fake posts. so i'm going to go through that here in the next segment. but again, to remind people of what this controversy is all about, headline up at summit dot news: trans activist organizers: topless swimming session for girls as young as 12, parents not allowed to be present. this individual is either one of the biggest predators on the internet or is one of the best trolls on the internet, because the history of this controversy stems, of course, from she Jessica. you need filing 15 complaints in British Columbia, Canada, 15 human rights tribunal complaints against female beauticians for their refusal to wax her male genitalia, and even prompted the British comedian and free speech advocate, Ricky Gervais, to wade into the debate yesterday when he tweeted this: how did we get to the point where women are having to fight for the right to choose whether they wax some big old hairy cock and balls or not. is it not a human right to have your meat and two veg polished? because that's literally what's happening. these beauticians are now in being investigated for their refusal to perform a wax on the male genitalia of this self professed Paul. that's like the national health service where it said a six foot three bearded man came in and demanded his cervix be pap smeared and the nurse said: you, you have a male genitals. and she got in trouble. oh yeah, and of course we're paying for all that as well. but it's conservatives and harassing women. if we, if we spread our legs a little on a subway, we're a rapist. but if a big old, fat dude comes in and tells some poor woman to to give him a pap smear, yeah, yeah, we don't know anatomy, folks, and my man doesn't have a cervix, that's. that's the open between the vagina and the uterus. this is where is this going, Paul. it's all pedophilic. we know that these people are now in charge of public discourse. this is where it's going and this is this. this is the effect of it. you see here, with the man spreading chair. she actually designed another chair that encouraged women to do what she's complaining that the men are doing. of course, we don't have a conversation about bag spreading, where women place their bags on seats on public transport, which I would argue happens way more than man spreading. she was given an award and praised for her social justice, justice activism, for creating this hideous looking chair, which is absolutely abominable- abominable. they see the bag spreading. controversy on Twitter. that's not being addressed. but again, going back to this, Jessica and Eve taking photos of herself in female locker rooms and then the comments below, or quote: if there's like 30 girls in change rooms, how many of them would you say are out there changing freely with their vaginas and boobs out? she denies making those comments, despite the fact that literally dozens of them that are very similar, dozens of tweets directed at children asking how old are you? and these have been circulating for a while before this even came out over the weekend, with the beauticians being investigated by the human rights tribunal. so this is all being circulating for a while because he had Lindsay Shepherd, the free speech activist, banned on Twitter a few days ago after you need basically started body shaming her and talking about intimate health problems. you're going to talk about that when you come back, Paul, but let me ask you this question: why do you think this individual is coming on my show and on the war room and says that they're a listener? I think this is some damage control. it's either damage control or it's the biggest troll you've ever seen. Alex- just obviously Jessica and Eve was on an Irish radio show earlier today and apparently hung up when she was challenged. the fact that she would agree to go on your show raises a lot of alarm bells in my mind. but again, I'm going to get into this new angle on it after the break, which makes it even more disturbing from the angle of child grooming, and we're going to get into that. and you're welcome to come on the war room when he joins us. I mean she joins us. do you want to bow to Jessica, Paul? yeah, let's do it, sir, we'll be back. ladies and gentlemen, info wars dot com- tomorrow's news. today, the globalist are hyper competitive scientific dictators, they are technocrats, they are control freaks, in their own words, and they believe allowing you to live your own life and make your own decisions. it's the way of their great destiny to merge with AI gods and we're fighting them hard in cyberspace. we're fighting them hard right here in the third dimension. but one of the biggest places that we neglect to forget that we've really got a lot of control in our lives is our bodies. if I wasn't taking the highest quality supplements from fourslifecom, I couldn't do it. that's why we decided to take our original secret 12 that was incredibly high quality metal bottleman and double the strength of it in a new formula, ultra 12. ultra 12 is undoubtedly the strongest, highest quality B12 over the counter that you're going to find anywhere. it is amazing experience: pure metal bottleman B12 for yourself and fund the second American evolution against the tyrants at info wars store dot com. info wars life dot com. or triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine. it's not only that. you have a unique voice in the public arena, in the public square. the other thing that's unique about info wars is it isn't the only network of this reach that is not backed by a corporate donor or corporate sugar daddy, that's not backed by some billionaire, that's not being funded by secret foreign government. it is completely independent of all that. it is an old school American, 1776 style experiment in the expression of the freedom of press and freedom of speech the founders were so concerned with at the beginning of the country. they actually tried to support and subsidize organizations just like this because this was the kind of press they wanted, and then, ultimately, we now live in an era where they've mostly been co-opted by big corporations or billionaire sugar daddies who've been able to manipulate what news and views the persons allowed to have or express or hear, and the info wars audience has broken through that. they have that. they are the bridge from the founding to the modern age, ultimate American democracy and freedom, and that's why there's been an unprecedented onslaught of the platforming, defamation, lawfare and libel targeting you. our powerful line of fluoride free products is the perfect gift for yourself or others who are exploring a healthier, happier lifestyle. with options ranging from toothpaste to oral spray, it's easy to find the perfect option for you. super blue toothpaste is the fan favorite fluoride free toothpaste that every info warrior loves. powered by iodine and nano silver, it's designed to deliver a powerful clean while supporting good oral health and fresh breath. available in two refreshing flavors: enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil, or try our bubblegum flavor. super blue immune gargle is the only option for on the go immune system support like no other, with the scientifically proven patented ingredients over skull, in three different sizes. you can take it wherever you go. support good oral health with our one of a kind super blue products. don't miss out on revolutionizing your morning routine. head to info wars store dot com and get our line of super blue products. today, as we witness the most disastrous geological activity in recorded history, the globalists are backed into a corner and the leftists are pushing for civil war. borders are being broken and sovereignty is being challenged. the world is going to change, and how it changes will likely be decided by those who are prepared to stay strong when the system fails. the system is vulnerable. electricity could be gone in an instant and grocery stores could be empty in three days. having storeable foods and the ability to purify water will give you a fighting chance in the next level, and being without puts you at the mercy of others or makes you a slave to a dying system. by storeable foods and an Alexa pure gravity water filter today, support mankind by being prepared and support freedom by buying from info wars store dot com. you're listening to the Alex Jones show, broadcasting live from the UN stronghold, Austin, Texas. you're listening to the Alex Jones show and now your host, Paul Joseph Watson, and we are live talking about Jessica you need, who was on the show earlier. you've got to commend her for coming on the show and having on intended the balls to speak up and defend her trans activism, the latest, latest example of which involves organizing a swimming session for girls as young as 12 at which it specifically says their parents and guardians are not allowed to be present. a trans activist who gained notoriety for attempting to force beauticians to wax their balls and penis is now ranging a swimming session for girls as young as 12 where parents will not be allowed to be present. this is happening, or it was going to happen. I think. the first one was cancelled and then they- she was trying to organize another one at the Al Anderson Memorial pool in Langley, British Columbia, Canada. the promotional material for the event states parents and or caregivers are not permitted in the event. whether that's going to go forward or not remains to be seen, but this is clown world and Canada is the epicenter of clown world. so nothing surprises me at this point. it takes a lot to shock me these days, but my word. so the latest development is this story up on the post millennial dot com website exclusive. this came out literally an hour ago. 15 year old alleged victim of Jessica you need speaks out. well, who didn't see this coming now? it's important to state from the outset that Jessica you need denies this story and denies that she was behind the conversations mentioned in this article, just as she denied that she was behind the tweets when Alex was interviewing her earlier. very easy get out clause, that isn't. it says a young woman has come forward with with serious allegations of abuse against Jonathan. Jessica you need. you need. the male to female transgender has recently risen to infamy for the human rights tribunal suits. she's taken out in 16 estitians declining to perform waxing services on her male genitals. we talked about that earlier, but now, 20 year old Jessica Rumpel of Samanish, Washington State has disclosed details to the post millennial of her encounters with Jessica you need. guess what her encounters were with Jessica you need? well, Rumpel was just 14 years old at the time of the interactions, just about to turn 15, and if you were pull up this article, you can see the actual conversations, again denied by Jessica you need. she is claiming that these are fake messages. the post millennial asserts that they're very much real. they come from the official, trusted nerd Facebook account of Jessica you need- and I doubt they would, I'll blase- just publish obviously fake messages and obviously put them at risk of a of a winnable, eminently winnable lawsuit for Jessica. you need. so, as you see up on screen now, Jessica you need says: lol, how old are you again? respondent Jessica Rumpel responds: 14 you need, says I don't know if I should lol, almost 15, I don't know. and it goes on from there. so this 14 year old- 14 at the time- said at first: I thought you know, this guy seems to have some kind of mental issues of some sort. really do you think? she says I didn't think he was a predator at first. really well, he opens up by asking how old a child is and continues to talk to him on Facebook in a sexually suggestive manner, as we'll see in a moment. you need made contact with Rumpel through social media site ask FM, where people, including those who are anonymous, can ask questions of users and receive answers in short form. Rumpel states that you need sent her a series of disturbing questions, while anonymous, before adding her to the private messenger application kick K I K, which is known to law enforcement for his notoriously poor protection of children- basically the app of choice for pedophiles. just by coincidence, according to Rumpel you need allegedly presented himself as a young male in his late 20s and claims that he's pictures of himself when he was younger. in their initial conversation and, in fact, elsewhere other people are claiming that Jessica you need contacted them during this same time period and claimed to be a 17 year old boy. the article continues: Rumpel states it was sympathy that caused her to continue contact with you need. initially, he liked to make himself be the victim. he actually told me he had folliculitis- whatever that is- and depression, and you see this over and over again with people like twitch streamers, with youtubers who get online, invent a mental illness that they've got and ask for money and beg for attention. this is the new rampant narcissism fueled by social media. but according to this, the allegation is that Jessica you need used it basically to groom children, as we shall see. pitting who she thought was an emotionally pained young man, Rumpel maintained some regular contact with you need. she said I always wanted to be there for anyone who is suffering, anyone who needed someone to listen to them. just like any other 15 year old girl, she enjoyed having another friend to talk to, but the conversations often took an uncomfortable turn. so Yannive obviously has some weird fetish obsession with female sanitary products. the alleged victim says Yannive always told me he uses pads and wants to go into the ladies bathroom. as we saw with the tweets, that seems to be a constant obsession, but of course they're fake too. apparently Yannive asked me how to go into the ladies bathroom without being caught and then how to be in the bathroom if there's a lot of women or girls and, as we saw before, there are selfies that this Jessica Yannive individuals has took in female changing rooms. so the conversation continues and it's basically Jessica Yannive asking if she- with male genitalia, of course- can get changed in front of young women and girls in a female locker room. according to Rumpel, the alleged victim, Yannive, did not identify as transgender at any point during their interactions. now, of course, if you look at the screenshots of that chat now, it shows Jessica Yannive locking or presenting as a female, because of course, that's what happens on Facebook. even though the conversations old- several years old, in fact, I think five years old- the profile picture is still going to show up as the current profile picture, so that's why it does that. the victim continued she believed Yannive simply had a fetish for bathrooms, pads and girls clothing, as Yannive would also be in sending Rumpel worrying messages, including photos of himself in girls jeans, asking for comments and compliments from the then 15 year old. so, as you can see there the Jessica Yannive is sending pictures of herself in what she claims are women's jeans and asking if they look okay. another absolutely bizarre example of this conversation: eventually- and nobody saw this coming- Yannive's attentions turned overtly sexual. Yannive said: I'm so, OMG, you know. the respondent of 14 year old girl asked: hungry question mark. Yannive said it rhymes with that. and then the 14 year old said: tawny question mark. then Yannive said: why are you always so beautiful? the next conversation is the 14 year old asking: did you also ask me if I had big boobs and big ass on anal? Yannive admits the first thing: yes, so if that's true and Yannive says it isn't. but if it's true, it's Yannive literally asking a 14 year old if she has big boobs. absolutely plan well, disgusting this. this is the person who is now in control of this discussion. this is the person who's already got two people banned on Twitter for daring to argue with them, as we should see in the next segment. I don't even know how much of this I can read on air. Yannive called me Titty Queen, even asked me to marry him, and I was only 15. he said he couldn't wait until I turned 16. Yannive was born in 1987. he's currently 32, so at the time of these messages he would have been 27. of course, in other conversations he's presenting as a 17 year old boy. so it goes on. I can't wait till you turn 16, said Yannive, but you're not 16 and that means I can't do anything with you as much as you want. that am I right? so again, if true, that is directly grooming a child in a sexually suggestive manner. that is the allegation here and it says, as has been revealed from previously exposed conversations, Yannive often directed his comments towards menstrual stuffs, even going so far as to pest a rumble to take photos of her using feminine hygiene products. again, I'm just reading this before I actually read it on air to see if I can actually read it. there's another video there which I didn't pull, but I've listened to it earlier, and it's basically Yannive adopting this bizarre, high-pitched, childlike voice, what he or she called an Elmo voice, saying things such as: Elmo wants to F and Elmo loves P-U-S-S-Y. in the final clip, Yannive is heard saying: I love you, your boobies go up and down, up and down, up and down, and I've played that and it's disturbing. Rumpel explains that Yannive had an Elmo character profile on Ask FM and used it to send her questions- absolutely absurd, clown level stuff. we'll be back in the next segment. I'll wrap this up. I'll talk about how Ricky Gervais waited into the debate too. so we'll be back. don't go away, because they know that that's the only way that they could defeat him in the eyes of the public. the approaching 2020, that's it. I mean. if Trump buys into this, it'll be the end of his presidency. it's the only way I think he could be defeated other than assassinating him. it's a time to be praying, my friend. I agree entirely. and the last thing I just want to say, Alex, is: I know they're trying to shut you down, but the reinforcements have arrived. man, I would love to see you on air until you're 80 years old. I'd love to see what you're talking about when you're 80. but if they do shut you down. no, you've gone into this war. you've won a lot of battles and there are a lot of people like myself and many others who are going to continue. we're going to keep fighting in the info war and even if something does happen to you or your show, know for a fact that you've gotten a lot of people fired up for liberty. thank you, sir, for calling. I know God's hand on my shoulder and I feel your love in my heart and I want you to know that love is right back at you. and I want to thank you for all you've done, with your word of mouth and your prayers and your financial support, because I'm committed to fight to the end. but I want to win and without you I'm going to be destroyed and it's not going to be fun, but that's not what's important. the enemy could win. we're a key chess piece in this fight. we're being used by God, you're being used by God. this is Providence. so I salute you and I thank you for all you've done from the bottom of my heart. info wars- the most banned network in the world. you're listening to the Alex Jones show, news analysis reports. it's the Alex Jones show and now your host, Paul Joseph Watson. we are back. Jessica, you need the transgender activists. who is basically at the forefront of having 15 female beauticians, investigator by the Canadian human rights tribunal refusing to wax her testicles through this allegation of a Facebook conversation with a then 14 year old girl who claimed- and these messages, if true, prove it again- it's being denied by. you need that the messages are true, but if they are, then it proves obvious child grooming. of course you need was on the show earlier, denied all this and will be on the show again, I believe, in the war room, in the next hour. but this really got prominent over the past few days because the British comedian Ricky Gervais, who is a free speech advocate, waited into the debate and there's actually a funny tweet which I tweeted earlier, which was a daily caller article headlined: Ricky Gervais doesn't think women should be forced to wax testicles. and then one of the responses below that tweet was from somebody who said the moment that Ricky Gervais became alt right. that's right, because if you don't think women should be forced to wax men's testicles, that means you're not see. now that's how much the overton window is shifted in clown world newsbusters reports. Ricky Gervais called transphobe for defending women refusing to wax trans woman's penis. warning course language throughout. again, I have to read this ahead of actually saying it. British comedian Ricky Gervais has been called transphobic over defending women refusing to wax trans women in Canada because they're uncomfortable dealing with their clients very male genitalia. Gervais defended the spa workers, saying that it's- quote- real feminism for women to choose who to wax or not. but internet users aren't having it. on Sunday, Gervais weighed in and one of the most most stupidly welk issues to crop up in recent memory in Canada, demonstrating himself as a celebrity that isn't completely devoid of common sense, he put out a controversial tweet which said: quote: how did we get to the point where women are having to fight for the right to choose whether they wax some big old hairy cock and balls or not? is it not human rights? have your meat and two veg polished. and, of course, he was immediately attacked. Twitter warriors clamored against Gervais as posting its language like that that has threatened trans people and that it contributes to the larger hashtag war on women. again, there are feminists, quite radical feminists, who are called transphobes, who are called terfs, who have been excluded from public conversations, who have been banned from social media platforms for daring to suggest that men with their testicles hanging out shouldn't be allowed into female locker rooms. one respondent said this was LGBTQ activist. Amy Martin quote: Ricky Gervais is a transphobic, barely disguised as his bigotry. is feminism? real feminism includes all women, including trans women. so they're literally defending a man who wants to force women to shave his testicles. that's feminism in 2019. in clown world, Gervais replied: surely real feminism also covers a woman's right not to have to wax someone's knob and bollocks if they don't want to. and it went on from there. again, we've got these new messages now that post millenials posted which seem to indicate that this is part of a child grooming operation. you need denies those messages and, as Alex was saying in the last segment, could this be one giant troll? I mean, this is obviously coming from the mind of a very sick individual either way, but why is this individual going on radio shows that overtly antagonistic to this whole thing has happened earlier and you need also went on an Irish radio show going to play that clip after the break. but again, Lindsay Shepherd, free speech activists, was banned on Twitter, appealed to the ban for basically responding to you need insulting her body, shaming her for a very private personal health problem related to sexual reproduction organs. she responded by saying, basically: well, at least I have a uterus banned, gone forever. no, no court of appeal for Twitter. of course these are the people who control public discourse. this is true. clown world will be back. this is the Alex Jones show. live, don't go away. info wars dot com. before I started working at info wars, I was not only a fan of Alex Jones and in force dot com, but also the products at info wars store dot com. and there's one product that's offered at info wars store dot com that is the elite of the supplements, and that's DNA force plus. now I remember when Alex first started talking about this with some of his special guests- telomeres and telomere support with your DNA. so I started to look into the science and what telomeres were and how it can improve your health and longevity when you protect your telomere. so I started looking into DNA force plus. but it's expensive. why? because it is an elite supplement. and then I started seeing other competitors coming up with competitive supplements for telomere support and they came and they went, but DNA force plus is still there. it is the elite supplement. I get excited when DNA force plus is on sale because I know it's expensive, so you should take advantage of 50% off DNA force plus at info wars store dot com, live from the info wars dot com studios. you're listening to the Alex Jones show and now your host, Paul Joseph Watson. I'm going to wrap this up in this segment because we've been talking about this subject literally for the best part of two hours. but the trans activist who is demanding that women shave her male genitalia appeared on an Irish radio show and the host made the point that, far from just respecting someone's pronouns, we're now being forced to share their increasingly obscure and Iran beliefs. this is Jessica. you need appearing on an Irish radio show and hanging up when challenged earlier today. here's the clip: you, if let's say, for example, I don't want to accept you as a woman, and I say: listen, Jessica, I don't believe you're a woman, I believe you're a man- addresses: yeah, and I said that you, I don't believe that you have the right to tell me to listen to you, to believe you. I don't believe, like, for example- I give an example: I don't believe in God. I do believe in God, I'm sorry. do you believe in God? I do? okay, I don't believe in God. I'm an atheist. okay, now you believe in God. I respect the fact that you believe in God. yeah, I respect your point of view and I respect your belief in God and your faith in God. that doesn't mean I have to believe in God, do you understand the point? so some people may not. they may respect you and they may respect that you want to be called Jessica, but they may not believe. they just don't believe it. they said: that's fine, he wants to be called Jessica, that's fine, I'll call him Jessica. I respect that, but I don't believe us and I don't buy into it. so what you're essentially asking these women to do is you're asking them to do a service on you that they don't believe in. they don't want to handle a man's genitalia. is that fair? yeah, not really, because you see, I'm protected under the BC Human Rights Code, because I'm a protected cause. that means those women are protected. are those women are protected who have a right to say no? they don't. because it's because, essentially, essentially, what happens? so why? why does your rights from there's? that's exactly the thing. that's why, that's why the federal member is coming to a balancing act to see which, to see how, how right to play out in this whole thing. I mean, that's the concern I have. I mean, look, I'm no problem, you do what you want to do, Jessica, and you live your life whatever way you want to live your life. but the concern I have is that those women should also be allowed to live their lives the way they want to live their lives, but not- but not when they discriminate against the rights of others. but they'll argue that they're not discriminating, that they're just saying I'm sorry, we don't supply a service of a bikini wax or a Brazilian or whatever it happens to be, or the removal of her from genitalia from a man, as far as they're concerned, because it's male genitalia and- and that's what they're saying- they're saying we shouldn't be forced to do that. well, have we lost his line there? hello, either, we'll try and get it back in a second. we seem to have lost the line. have we lost her line? she's gone okay. later on on Twitter, Jessica and Eve admitted that she hung up on that radio host who challenged her. so she did hang out. it wasn't just the line that was lost. the other aspect of this: whether it's a troll or not, it could be a giant troll. it could be an actual anti identity politics troll, but it's still disgusting in every way imaginable. but the real world effect, or at least the online effect, is: people are getting banned for challenging this individual, including a feminist who was, I think, banned several months ago for misgendering Jessica you need, and the free speech activist, Lindsay Shepherd, was also banned a few days ago. you need basically made fun of her reproductive abnormality and Lindsay Shepherd responded by saying something like- I forget the exact quote, but it was something like: well, at least I have a uterus, of course, in the world of Twitter's, Twitter's terms of service, where you can actually organize violence against people if you're Antifa, that's fine. the Rose City Antifa account that assaulted and you know the journalist still has their account. she committed the mortal sin of misgendering Jessica and even her Twitter account is banned forever. and Lindsay Shepherd put out a video explaining what happened. this is a five minute clip. we're going to go to it right now. this is Lindsay Shepherd, free speech activist, on why she was banned by Twitter. here it is: Hi everyone, I have been permanently banned from Twitter and, yes, I did file an appeal, but it was quickly denied. you may have watched the video that I made last night where I talk about the same topic- my Twitter ban- but I had to take it down and give another shot because I had to make some corrections in order to comply with a publication ban. I was banned from Twitter for responding to a couple of tweets that an individual that I will only refer to you as JY made about me. so JY has a very complicated backstory that is getting more and more disjointed, so all I'm going to say here is that JY purports to be a transgender woman, and JY is someone that lives in the same province that I do, which is why I probably feel a little more invested in this issue than other people who don't live in this province. there are leaked Facebook message screenshots where JY is trying to get advice on how to approach preteen girls in the female washrooms, and he says things like: can you see tampon strings hanging out of a girl's pussy? what do girls do in the bathroom? stall white pussy and change panty liner. oh, I'm going on the BC fairies next week and lots of 10 year old girls go on field trips on the ferry. how can I ask them for a tampon or pad? should I teach a 10 year old girl how to use a tampon. yes, JY is very obsessed with the menstrual products of 10 to 12 year old girls. so JY on Twitter starts tweeting about how I'm dumb and how I have a loose vagina from pushing out a 10 pound baby. but JY has a tight pussy. so I tweeted back and basically said: if you want to sound like a woman, this is not really the way to do it because this is more of a male way of speaking. I said he sounds like a guy who doesn't have a functional romantic relationship with a woman, but I guess that describes him pretty well. then JY starts mocking how I have a reproductive abnormality called aseptay uterus. and then I reply and I say: at least I have a uterus, you ugly fat man. I deleted the tweets in the morning when I woke up, but was permanently suspended by the afternoon. some people have said that I should have never engaged with JY online. I shouldn't have sunk to his level. but the thing is, this is someone who straight up ruins people's lives, and I'm not talking about the Twitter bans, I'm talking about really ruining people's lives. and the reason I think the JY situation is so important is because it proves trans people are untouchable. JY is allowed to make crude and disgusting comments and misogynistic comments, but when I want to talk back to him, stand up for myself, defend myself, I'm silenced and kicked off of the platform permanently, but JY receives no punishment and remains on the platform. the moral of the story is: you can't stand up for yourself against a trans person. one more evidence of this: watch the video I made called did I harass a trans person? it's I tell the story of a fellow grad student who made a complaint against me at my university and he was a trans individual who would always try to instigate conflict with me, and he made a complaint saying I was the problem. so when it comes to trans people, they are untouchable, they are beyond criticism, beyond questioning, and you are not allowed to stand up for yourself against them. and sometimes the comment comes up like: why are you so focused on trans issues? and it's because, unfortunately, trans activism is one of the major hindrances to free speech and open inquiry in this country, if not the number one hindrance. trans activism is responsible for silencing and stifling so many discussions that we need to have in our society. so thank you so much to everyone that is bringing attention to my twitter ban and to the JY situation. I've already received so many kind messages. for the next little while, I will only be on YouTube until I can find another platform to hit Jon to. so please do subscribe if you haven't already. thanks so much for watching and bye for now. Hi, I'm Dan Pilla. I started fighting the IRS over 40 years ago when they tried to seize my mother's house. I sued the IRS in one. I beat the IRS then and I've been beating them ever since. I wrote the book on tax debt settlement and I've helped thousands of people deal with tax problems they thought might never be solved. I can help you too. if you owe taxes you can't pay, don't wait another day. there's no such thing as a hopeless tax case. call 834, no tax or go to my website, danpillacom. that's danpillacom. danpillacom. The United States of Empire is a book that claims the United States is the empire of the world. George Washington had warned us against foreign wars. The United States of Empire shows that World Wars I and II left England broken its former colony. the US had to save the empire. was there ever a vote? who do we fight for? the deep state began with World War I- the United States of Empire by James Dunn, available at Amazon books. when you have a pain in the neck- a real pain in the neck, back, shoulder or legs- you now have two convenient choices to get fast relief without taking another pill, because now Sunny Bay heating wraps and pillows are available at both Amazon and Walmart. yes, see Sunny Bay's four and a half to five star customer reviews on Amazoncom or Walmartcom. our microwavable heat wraps, heatable neck pillows and extra large body wraps are designed better for perfect support where and when you need it, even while driving. Sunny Bay wraps will not burn and stay balanced to provide soothing hot or cold therapy to help treat temporary or chronic pain. and the best part, Sunny Bay quality products started under $20. join thousands of happy customers and see why Sunny Bay products have a lifetime 100% positive rating on both Amazon and Etsy. it's easy: click Amazon or Walmart and search today for Sunny Bay. Let's talk to Marcus in New York. Marcus here on the air, Thanks for holding. Hey, Alex. Yeah, I just want to say your show is a breath of fresh air. I talked to a lot of people here out in New York City and one thing I can tell you is that almost nobody agrees with these wars. I think that the Neocons are trying desperately to get Trump to go to a war because they know that that's the only way that they could defeat him in the eyes of the public approaching 2020.. That's it, I mean. if Trump buys into this, it'll be the end of his presidency. It's the only way, I think, he can be defeated other than assassinating him. It's the time to be praying, my friend, I agree entirely, and the last thing I just want to say, Alex, is: I know they're trying to shut you down, but the reinforcements have arrived. man, I would love to see you on air until you're 80 years old. I'd love to see what you're talking about when you're 80, but if they do shut you down, no, you've gone into this war. you've won a lot of battles and there are a lot of people like myself and many others who are going to continue. we're going to keep fighting in the input war and even if something does happen to you or your show, know for a fact that you've gotten a lot of people fired up for liberty. Thank you, sir, for calling. It's never been easy to figure out the essentials of a new supplement routine. That's why we created the eight pack power stack, your go to option for the building blocks of a successful approach to supplementation. This one stop shop for those looking to simplify or adjust their routine is perfect for new and old info warriors alike. With the eight pack power stack, there's no trial and error, messy bottles laying across the counter or 20 minute morning habits. Just take the wake up and work or rest and recover packs each day for quick, easy to use and conveniently accessible formulas to help you reach your peak, without the deep supplement knowledge stacks of bottles and complicated routine featuring eight different formulas for a total take on your health and wellness. You can find what you like and get even more powerful versions in the store. Head to info wars store dot com and check out eight pack power stack today and jumpstart your supplement routine. You're listening to the Alex Jones show Live from the info wars dot com studios. you're listening to the Alex Jones show and now your host, Paul Joseph Watson. We are back and we've stopped talking about Jessica you need, which most of you will be delighted about. A few months ago on Twitter, I put in my Twitter bio he him as my preferred pronouns as a joke. I removed them later, but I put them in for a few weeks as a joke. Now we have this headline out of the Daily Caller: These 2020 Democrats have their preferred gender pronouns in their Twitter bios. Of course, there are no transgender Democrat 2020 presidential candidates, so far at least, or any who have identified as transgender. But three prominent Democratic presidential candidates have their preferred gender pronouns in their Twitter bios. Former Housing and Urban Development Secretary Julian Castro's bio declares he him L. New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio's bio says he him. That's literally what I did as a joke. how Bill de Blasio, the mayor of New York City, has it. And Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren's bio says she, her. Castro was the first candidate to add his preferred gender pronouns to his Twitter bio, on July 1st. So this is something that's happened in the last three weeks. They've started putting their Twitter preferred gender pronouns in their Twitter bios. My prediction is that all the other candidates, or most of them, are going to do the same. Otherwise they're going to be starts we call transphobic. Can it get any more insane? Absolutely incredible. Meanwhile, this was a headline up at Summit News Yesterday. AOC claims President Trump is sowing violence. She came out with a tweet. It was a Louisiana police officer who said about AOC- quote: she needs around, and I don't mean the kind she used to serve, Which, of course, is completely disgusting and that kind of language should not be tolerated. But, of course, what did AOC do in response to it? She fed it into her Trump derangement syndrome. Of course, death threats are horrible, targeted against anyone, but she exploited it by saying: this is Trump's goal. when he uses targeted language and threatens elected officials who don't agree with this political agenda. It's authoritarian behavior. The president is sowing violence, He's creating an environment where people can get hurt and he claims plausible deniability. Now, this, of course, is within the environment of Democrats repeatedly telling their voters, their supporters, to go out and harass Trump supporters in restaurants, wherever they may be, as Maxine Waters said, of course, And in the case of AOC, this is pretty rich, because the domestic Antifa terrorist, who literally tried to massacre ICE agents and fire bomb an ICE facility in Washington State last weekend, Put out a manifesto in which he specifically used the term concentration camps numerous times, which, of course, was the term applied to border detention centers. They're not concentration camps. That's completely ludicrous. Actual Holocaust victims have condemned her for using that language And that language was used numerous times by Willem van Spronsen, the Antifa terrorist who tried to massacre ICE agents. You remember the story quickly buried by the mainstream media. It actually wasn't even played up by- quote- right wing media. There were a couple of Fox news stories about it. It was never really played up as a big story. but it was literally a domestic terrorist radicalized by the kind of rhetoric that AOC is responsible for. Does that mean she's responsible for the attack? No, that's not how it works, But you could at least say that it looks like he's been radicalized by that kind of rhetoric because he wrote in his manifesto- quote: Trump's: take action against the forces of evil, Citing in part, quote: highly profitable detention, slash concentration camps and a battle over the semantics. The case of Cortez has repeatedly referred to immigration detention facilities as concentration camps, despite vociferous complaints from actual Holocaust survivors. Ryan serve Raider tweeted: the case of Cortez claims without evidence that Trump is intentionally trying to get her assassinated. Last week a domestic terrorist attack tonight facility and used AOC's rhetoric in his manifesto. AOC has refused to condemn the terrorist attack. You remember the video where rebel media reporter confronted both AOC and Ilhan Omar in the halls of Congress asking them: will you denounce this? anti for attack is very easy to denounce a terrorist attack. They refused to do so. they said: oh, we'll put out a statement on it later. that statement never came. So she's accusing Trump of being responsible for this. Louisiana police officers death threat When a terrorist who tried to massacre ice agents literally used her rhetoric just 10 days prior to that. I'm talking about violent assault and threats. Corey Spartacus Booker is now dreaming, fantasizing about violently assaulting President Trump Headline out of zero hedge. Corey Spartacus Booker wants to assault Trump. blames testosterone for violent fantasies. So he appeared on the lake show with Seth Meyers last night and he relayed a story from an Iowa campaign event where dozens of people showed up, one of whom told him to quote: punch Donald Trump in the face, Because this is the new face of tolerance is to violently attack anyone who has a different opinion to you, because they're all Nazis. Dude, that's a felony man. Booker replied before launching into his deep seated desire to assault the president. He said, quote: Donald Trump is a guy who you understand. he hurts you. My testosterone sometimes makes you want to feel like punching him, which would be bad for this elderly, out of shape man that he is if I did that. And then he went on to call Trump a- quote- physically weak specimen. and then he accused Trump of being a body shamer. So he's saying it's OK to assault Trump violently because he's a body shamer, while at the same time calling Trump out of shape and a physically weak specimen, which of course is the epitome of body shaming. He went on to say- quote: that's his tactics and you don't beat a bully like him fighting him on his tactics, on his terms, using his turf. he's the body shamer. Corey Booker said, after literally just body shaming Trump, He's the guy that tries to drag people in the gutter. So he's literally fantasizing about violently attacking Trump because he's a body shamer. while he's a body shamed, Trump Zero Hedge asks: did Booker's testosterone make him similarly feel like sexually assaulting a girl in high school when he- quote- slowly reached for her breast, only for her to push his hand away once he reached his mark? And they provide. the newspaper article where that alleged sexual assault is documented Goes on to say: was Booker's out of control testosterone responsible for a credible allegation? His phrase that he sexually assaulted a man- whether or not he identified as a man remains to be seen could have been Jessica you need in a public restroom. And then they detailed that allegation. and did Booker fail to constrain his toxic masculinity when he browbeat former DHS secretary Kirsten Nielsen last January Over President Trump's comment that Haiti and parts of Africa are S whole countries? sounds like Spartacus needs to get this under control. So once again you have the Democrats whining about violent rhetoric all day, When their supporters are literally in the streets and remind. let's not forget that CNN has done glorification pieces about Antifa over and over again. Their journalists, include including Cuomo, have repeatedly praised Antifa. They're attacking journalists in the street. We had an Antifa domestic terrorist tried to blow up an ice facility, citing Alexandria case. your quarters rhetoric. But no, Donald Trump's bad because he body shames people and he deserves to be violently assaulted in the crazed mind of Corey Booker. Absolutely incredible. We'll be back. This is the Alex Jones show, live breaking news at info wars dot com. Don't go away. People's lives across America. My blood pressure has normalized. My diabetes has totally improved. Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel. I recommend heart and body extract to everyone. Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy. Order your two months supply today by calling 866-295-5305- that's 866-295-5305- or order online: HB extract dot com. heart and body extract- 866-295-5305. or HB extract dot com. Serving with info wars is a great honor, But I still need my morning coffee and luckily, our break room at the info wars headquarters is stock full of high quality info wars store patriot blend coffee grown in the high mountains of southern Mexico. The Chiapas farmers grow 100% organic, non GMO coffee at the ideal altitude for the perfect cup: A robust coffee with great flavor and mild acidity. There has never been a more important time to support info wars. So if you love coffee and if you want to fight for freedom, then you can help. Order now at the info wars store, Sign up for auto ship and get your own high quality supply of patriot blend coffee delivered right to your door at info wars store dot com. That's where people that are at the third tier will get a free special edition t shirt and more. Subscribe star, Alex Jones- search it today. It's a super hot site. It's pro freedom, It's pro free speech. It's exploding right now. We're very excited to be involved at subscribe star. So be sure and join me at subscribe star dot com- forward slash Alex Jones for the next level of the human revolution against tyranny. When you subscribe today, you will see information, you will see videos, you will see articles, you will see documents you won't see anywhere else. at subscribe star dot com- forward slash Alex Jones. Subscribe today for exclusive content nowhere else on the world wide web. Subscribe star dot com. forward slash Alex Jones. The courts, the judges, the juries, the members of the independent free press that care about this, the ordinary members of the public and the audience that care about this, have to bring real social, political, economic consequence to their course of conduct. Otherwise they will never change and they will become the big tech oligarchs, the equivalent to the big trust of the 19th century, who ran American politics and ran American economy almost into the ground until we were able to recover after the Great Depression. The people whose audience is the fuel that flames the light of liberty across the world to make real the actions of independent free speech, to make real the original promise of an independent free press. Real collusion is big tech and big media manipulating and working with each other to try to meddle with elections to try to shake people's thoughts And then the whopper of telling us the whole time it's not happening. It's the ultimate form of gaslighting. What you just saw isn't what you just saw. Even it is what you just saw. You're listening to the Alex Jones show. You found it, The tip of the spear. It is the Alex Jones show And now your host, Paul Joseph Watson. We are back live. I'm going to get into some more news here in a second player, Mark Dice video about Bernie Sanders advocating for the minimum wage, campaigning for the $15 minimum wage, but not quite seeing it through when it comes to his own campaign. staff Meantime on. encourage everyone to go to info wars storecom where, as per usual, we have a raft of absolutely mammoth discounts on great products, including 40% off. info wars life protein bars- 40% off right now. Get the best of both worlds with info wars life: vanilla, coconut and chocolate peanut butter protein bars. I've got some of these myself. They're hefty protein bars and they're available limited supply right now for a massive 40% discount. great tasting protein and energy in every bar. That is the info wars life protein bar combo available right now at info wars storecom. Well, we also have up to 50% off emergency survival foods. You don't have to fear the worst to buy emergency storeable food anymore. Great for camping or prepping. the info wars life select emergency storeable food below is made with you in mind as one of the best for price and taste and preparedness and survival foods available. That was already basically dirt cheap. I've tried to buy storeable food in Europe before. the costs are absolutely prohibitive. It's literally thousands and thousands of dollars for a tiny portion in comparison to what we're offering at info wars storecom for up to 50% off. And again, you don't have to be a doomsday prepper to know that this is a great deal. Just eat the food if nothing happens. And, of course, you can use it for camping purposes as well. up to 50% off emergency survival foods right now at info wars storecom. Please continue to support this network by getting the products with massive discounts at info wars storecom Headline Bernie Sanders Marks for admitting he will have to cut staff hours to pay them $15 minimum wage, not quite carrying through on the exact policy he's campaigning for, And Mark dies put out a video today on this very subject. here is lectures corporations that they need to start paying their workers at least $15 an hour And if he becomes president, he's going to raise the national minimum wage to just that. corporations like Walmart, like the fast food industry, like retail in general and other employer other employees- No reason now why they also should not be paying their employees at least $15 an hour. But since liberals live by the philosophy of do what they say, not what they do, I'm sure you won't be surprised to learn that Bernie Sanders has been paying his campaign staff less than that, And they're not happy about it. Bernie Sanders campaign workers demand the $15 an hour pay that the candidate has proposed for employees nationwide. How embarrassing is it got to be for these people to work for a guy who's promising a $15 minimum wage for everybody in America when he's not even paying them that? So out of embarrassment- since this has been making headlines recently- Bernie's decided to give everybody a raise, But in order to pay for it, he's cutting back on their hours. This is probably the best economic lesson that these staffers are ever going to get in their entire lives. You see, liberals, the pie is only so big And the more pieces you try to cut out of it, the smaller those pieces are. The $15 an hour minimum wage is basically the agreed upon talking point by all the Democrat candidates running for president. But, as you know, the Democrats these days keep trying to one up each other in terms of who could offer more free stuff. So Congresswoman Rashida Taleem is now saying it should be $20 an hour. That's a great idea, Rashida, especially since the Congressional Budget Office recently calculated that if the minimum wage is raised to just $15 an hour, that will actually end up costing Americans 1.3 million jobs. There's a reason we keep seeing more and more kiosks at fast food restaurants, grocery stores and home improvement stores, Because if they're going to have to pay people $15 an hour, they're just going to replace them with a computer. All the regulars at CNN must be on summer vacation this week, because the woman who interviewed Kamala Harris yesterday actually asked her some real questions. She pointed out the fact that her Medicare for all plan actually won't work unless she dramatically raises taxes on the middle class, which Kamala says she's just not going to do. And all of a sudden, without a middle class tax hike, I'm not sure what this woman is doing on CNN, because these are the kinds of questions that are asked on her real news network. There must be some mistake here. More evidence that everybody at CNN is on summer vacation this week is this woman, who also appeared on air to explain that Elizabeth Warren's supposed plan to prevent another economic crisis would in fact cause one. Now, as far as her policy proposals, she is recommending lowering rents, offering affordable childcare, offering free tuition at colleges. All of that costs money, and the American public should be asking: how do you pay for it? One way would be to increase taxes. Another way is to increase government debt. This is the issue that the American people should be actually focused on, Because, as many experts say, if we don't get control of our debt over the next 10 years, we could be facing a fiscal crisis and that would be extraordinarily harmful to our economy. At some point in the future- and I don't know when- it could be 10 or 20 years down the road- this country's going to have a huge, huge problem and we probably will go bankrupt. There's still much debt, the government's still big, there's still many entitlements and someday they're going to probably hyperinflate the dollar into oblivion. If the American people ever allow private banks to control the issue of their money, first by inflation and then by deflation, the banks and corporations that will grow up around them will deprive the people of their property until their children will wake up homeless on the very continent their fathers conquered. President Trump really is this country's last hope, but he's holding back the dam for bursting, but it's still building pressure and leaking like a sieve. and when he's out of office, look out. Hopefully that won't mean for another six years that we can all stay busy working to restore our republic. That was Mark Dice talking about Bernie Sanders not following through on his $15 minimum wage promise within his own campaign. For all his faults, though, Bernie Sanders does recognize that you can't have a giant welfare stay and mass migration at the same time, which brings me onto this headline. Time Magazine calls for migration brainwashing courses in schools. Now, this was an article in Time Magazine. It was written by a group, a couple of individuals from a group called ISD. What is ISD? Well, they work with governments to combat extremism. Now, lo and behold, I looked at their website and looked at who funded ISD, This group that is literally pushing for migration brainwashing courses to be introduced in schools, to push the idea that it's always positive, And imagine my shock. They're funded by the United Nations Development Program, Google, Facebook, the European Commission and Open Society Foundations, which of course, is George Soros, But you can't mention that anyone is funded by Open Society Foundations, even though literally dozens of major NGOs are, because, of course, that's anti-Semitic. The article freaks about how popular support for politicians who build their campaigns around anti-migrant and anti-Muslim themes have surged across the western world, And theories such as the Great Replacement and White Genocide have effectively made their ways into societal and political discourse. Isn't it amazing how you can only talk about the demographic decline of white voters if you're doing so in a positive context? In fact, on the very day this article was published, Axios published another article saying that the Republicans are in big trouble because their white demographic voting base is swiftly disappearing. That's okay to talk about the demographic decline of white people, so long as you say it's a fantastic thing. If you dare suggest that there might be any negative consequences, then you're engaging in neo-Nazi rhetoric. And now they want public brainwashing courses introduced into schools to try and combat anyone who criticizes mass migration. And, by the way, they also included me in a report about the Swedish election, complaining about the fact that I influenced the Swedish election because of my videos about the problems caused by mass migration in Sweden- Absolutely incredible. This is the Alex Jones Show. Infowarscom will be back. And then I started seeing other competitors coming up with competitive supplements for telomere support and they came and they went, but DNA Force Plus is still there. It is the elite supplement. I get excited when DNA Force Plus is on sale because I know it's expensive, so you should take advantage of 50% off DNA Force Plus at InfowarsStorecom. Alex, I got a plug for the Patriot points. I got $180 so far this year and I feel like I'm stealing from you. I buy so much in the store because I don't want to give that money to Walmart. I mean, the X2 has really done a lot for me. I've lost weight, My brain works a whole lot better. My kids- they use the toothpaste. My son used to get these little sore throats and he puts X2 in water and drinks it and it gets rid of his sore throat. Let me break this down for you. I want high quality stuff in there, I want a good price, but I've kind of habituated everybody to where everybody buys when it's 50% off. I've taken $2 on the toothpaste, 50% off, and so it's the same thing like the fish oil or the turmeric or the bone broth. Thank you so much for the plug, but listen, when people get the Patriot points, a lot of times it makes things a loss later Because if you're already getting 10% off because you're on auto-ship, then we're doing 50% off and then you do something like that where you have Patriot points. we lose money. but that's okay. Thanks for the support. The globalists hate free speech and they hate empowering the people. The entire dying dinosaur corporate media- CNN, MSNBC- bombard the public with anti-American, anti-family, anti-God, anti-gun messages. People are sick of it. Well, Subscribestarcom is exploding. We have our own account at Subscribestarcom forward slash Alex Jones And six days a week, Monday through Friday, and then on Sundays under the Sunday show- I'm going to take questions off Subscribestar, where you private message me and I'm going to answer those questions on air starting today. So infowarscom is a great place to visit. Subscribestarcom forward slash Alex Jones is the place to ask direct questions and I will answer them on air. So be sure and join me during the weekday show to hear your questions answered. Alpha Power's incredible ingredients can help you boost your sports performance or enhance your day to day life with ease, while encouraging hormonal balance, Perfect by itself or with super male vitality in the true alpha male pack. Alpha Power can help boost performance, help maintain normal testosterone levels, support healthy cholesterol and more. Let Alpha Power help bring you to the peak of your optimal health. Don't fall short on energy in the fight against tyranny In the world. what a true alpha male looks like today, with Alpha Power Head to infowarsstorecom today Coming to the Alex Jones show. We're back and we're going to hit some big final news stories here. Headline up on summitnews: Total anarchy. De Blasio blasted over video showing NYPD cops doused with water. You may or may not have seen this today. Similar situation to what happened in London, where a total lack of respect for the police, which was instituted from the top down, led to spiraling crime rates. in London We had a situation once where, of course, stop and search was heavily restricted because it was called racist. We had another situation in London where police were told they couldn't chase criminals on mopeds, on scooters, if they weren't wearing helmets and it basically ended up in just criminals just openly laughing in the face of police officers as they got away with crimes. the crime rate spiked. New York's crime rate has been going down thanks to their tougher policies, but that could be about to change soon, and now Mayor Bill De Blasio is facing heat over videos that show NYPD officers getting doused with water, with outraged cops blaming De Blasio for being soft on crime. Now these two incidents happened in Harlem and Brooklyn. in one case the cops are actually arresting someone and got doused with water. somebody threw a bucket at the head of one of these cops. In the other clip you show them getting absolutely deluged with water. they just walk away calmly. they don't even retaliate, even though that's literally assaulting a police officer. it's a crime. they just walk away and do nothing. Apparently, this is because of Mayor Bill De Blasio's softening approach to crime. sources within the NYPD said the footage was evidence of wider anarchy taking hold across the city. everybody's outraged. an NYPD source said is discussing embarrassing. there's lawlessness around here now. Police Chief Terrence Monaghan called the footage reprehensible, while another officer blamed the incidents on the NYPD's hands off approach to these guys that De Blasio has encouraged. He said who does that in the right frame of mind? people who believe there are no consequences, which is exactly what happened in London. It's total anarchy. this is very sad. Pat Lynch patrolman's been a benevolent association, said it would. it was anti police rhetoric that led to what you're seeing right now in these videos, creating a culture totally lacking in respect. He said as police officers, we need to draw a line in situations like this. we need to take action to protect ourselves in the public. He says the politicians do not care. Rudy Giuliani also came out and slam this writing. this disrespect for the uniform in New York City is a result of Democrat, progressive, retrogressive, socialist mayor. This is what happens with knee jerk disrespect for police. it will only get worse until these left wing idiots are defeated. So Rudy Giuliani is calling it out: absolutely lawless situation in New York where you can just assault a police officer by throwing a bucket of water at their head and throwing the water over them and basically nothing is done. Meanwhile, Megan Rappano, everybody's favorite US women soccer star, who apparently thinks she's Jesus, now complain that her national anthem protest was not well received, despite her being a non threatening white woman. Or could it be because she's an obnoxious, insufferable, petulant child? Rappano became one of the first white athletes to kneel during the national anthem and subsequently stated: I'll probably never sing the national anthem again. You'll also recall that she was involved in that incident where they let the American flag drop on the ground during their celebrations, widely seen as a big insult. She told CNN's Van Jones that her anti national anthem protest, in which she kneeled in one case and refused to put her hand on her heart in the other, refused to sing the national anthem, She said. I actually felt like it was going to be received a little better because she's white and a woman. She then reeled off a list of vague justifications for protesting against the anthem. so she'll justice this, so she'll justice that, blah, blah, blah. And of course, she was caught on video in an article that we had a couple of weeks ago, Ranting- I deserve this- while holding the World Cup trophy and appears to attempt to make herself a center of attention at every available opportunity. Again, soccer or football as we call it, is a team game. When you win, you act humble and you thank the rest of your team members and you console the defeated opposition. That's the whole idea behind soccer or football as invented in England: the gentleman's game. But now she's took it, used it, fed into her narcissistic zeal to be the center of attention for everything. And now she's shocked that people don't like her, Although many people do, of course, the resistance love her. they actually did a poll which showed that she would be President Trump in a hypothetical election. Whether that poll is accurate, given that all the others before the last election one, I would suggest that it's not to on point. Meanwhile, Google polls veterans out over unacceptable keyword- Christian. Google on YouTube denied an answer a veteran's charity because it deemed Christian to be an unacceptable keyword. Maybe they should have just called them Easter worshipers. That's the politically correct term for Christians. now you can't say Christian anymore. it's offensive. Over in Europe, Algerian soccer fans. France used to colonize us, but today we colonize them. last week and the week before that, Every other night, or every three nights in Paris, in Lyon and Marseille, in these major French cities, after the Algerian soccer team won and they did end up winning the Africa Cup of Nations, They basically went absolutely crazy, rioted, looted stores. In one instance they- one guy was wielding a chainsaw- throwing objects at police. This is how they celebrate, This is their culture, This is diversity, This is cultural enrichment. And one Algeria soccer fan was caught on tape with a message for the French after the Africa Cup of Nations win. He said- quote: France used to colonize us, but today we colonize them. Now you always get football fans who go out and riot. you've seen it before with basketball fans and things like that. This seemed overtly political, though, didn't it? This is basically Islamists bragging about how they're planning on colonizing France. There was another instance- incident in this article, which the video is down below, where a couple of French women- young women- are sat in the car. They're rocking the car, The women are forced to get out and leave, which is probably the best situation that could have arisen out of that, Given what happened in Cologne, Germany, New Year's Eve. The fans reportedly stole the women's bags of money, with one justifying the act of criminality by asserting they are women, their place is at home. Other people who feminists want to bring into France and Europe in general on mass for our continued cultural enrichment. Matteo Salvini doesn't know the Interior Minister of Italy. He said Paris and Berlin will no longer impose mass migration on Italy. The story out of voice of Europe. In a letter sent to French Interior Minister Christophe Castagnet, Italy's national populist Interior Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Matteo Salvini declared that his country will no, not bear the brunt of mass migration into Europe. He said France or Germany cannot decide on migration policies by ignoring the demands of the most exposed countries like us and Malta. So Salvini again remained steadfast in preventing the cultural enrichment of Italy, which was going so well before, wasn't it? What else have we got here? we've got Mayor Pete Buttigieg white nationalism, the most deadly form of terrorism in the United States. He conveniently hasn't included the 9: 11 attack, the pulse nightclub shooting, the San Bernardino shooting, the Boston marathon bombing- all the shooting at Militia base in Fort Hood, Texas, Which claimed a total of 2977 American lives, conveniently left that out of his equation when he's again trying to tie into this hysteria over white nationalism being the biggest terrorist threat. Headline on info was journalists triggered over fake news shorts sold by forever 21. corporate journalists are triggered over a $9.90 pair of boxer shorts emblazoned with the phrase fake news, sold by forever 21.. They're literally saying that this is inciting violence against journalists. A local report with the Baltimore Sun publicly blasted forever 21 for selling the shorts. Yeah, her tweet might actually sell more shorts, since she's given the product more publicity than it likely had before. Maybe an idea for the info was store to get some fake news apparel. Another local journalist, a sports reporter, suggested the shorts, expressed hatred for journalists, so now you can't even create a satirical item of clothing Because journalists are going to get triggered by it- absolutely incredible. Meanwhile, Trump calls squad nightmare for America. President Trump on Tuesday insisted he will add Minnesota to his wind column in the 2020 presidential election because voters will side with him against the state's fall left Democratic rep Ilhan Omar. Of course Trump nearly won Minnesota in 2016. looked like he was going to win it for a long time. Now his strategy of making the squad the face of the Democrats is working a tree. Of course we had CNN come out and quote Democratic insiders who said, as I said last week, Trump had pulled off an absolute masterstroke by keeping the media focus on these four, because their favorability ratings with Democratic swing voters are extremely low- in rep Ilhan Omar's case, as low as 9%. It's going to wrap it up for the show. War Room with Owen Shroy is coming up next. breaking news at info warscom. As we gather this evening in the joy of freedom, we remember that all share a truly extraordinary heritage. together, We are part of one of the greatest stories ever told: the story of America. It is the epic tale of a great nation whose people have risked everything for what they know is right and what they know is true. As long as we stay true to our codes, as long as we remember our great history, as long as we never, ever stop fighting for a better future, then there will be nothing that America cannot do In full warscom. tomorrow's news today: Full power of the Republic in the name of Jesus Christ. Full power. Damn the torpedoes. go straight at him. Let's talk to Marcus in New York. Marcus, you're on the air. Thanks for holding Hey, Alex. Yeah, I just want to say your show is a breath of fresh air. I talked to a lot of people here out in New York City and one thing I can tell you is that almost nobody agrees with these wars. I think that the Neocons are trying desperately to get Trump to go to a war because they know that that's the only way that they could defeat him in the eyes of the public approaching 2020.. That's it. I mean. if Trump buys into this, it'll be the end of his presidency. It's the only way I think he could be defeated other than assassinating him. It's a time to be praying, my friend. I agree entirely, And the last thing I just want to say, Alex, is. I know they're trying to shut you down, but the reinforcements have arrived. man, I would love to see you on air until you're 80 years old. I'd love to see what you're talking about when you're 80. But if they do shut you down, no, you've gone into this war. You've won a lot of battles and there are a lot of people like myself and many others who are going to continue. We're going to keep fighting in the input war And even if something does happen to you or your show, know for a fact that you've gotten a lot of people fired up for liberty. Thank you, sir, for calling.Gavin McInnis is back with his all new online network, FreeSpeechtv. Gavin McInnis, Joe Biggs, Miley Unopolis and Soph all at FreeSpeechtv. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you so much for joining us on this live Tuesday, October 29th 2019, Worldwide broadcast. And if you're not feeling a sense of urgency about what's happening in the world, you're blind. you're not paying attention. The future of humanity is on the edge and humanity is barely winning this race against the anti-human globalists by just a few inches, by a nose. right now, DrudgeReportcom has the headline that Republicans fear a 2020 wipeout, and there is an article from Axios that breaks it down. So we'll put DrudgeReportcom on screen, please. The GOP nightmare scenario. ladies and gentlemen, we're going to be going over all of that. We also now learn it's an army officer who heard Trump's Ukraine call, reported concerns, but there's a recording of it and there's a transcript. So there you go, ladies and gentlemen, and that's what the media is claiming. Who knows if that's even true. Now we're told the whistleblower won't be testifying and they've been having these hearings that no one shows up at. So that's all coming up today as well. We're going to have open phones, but the first thing I want to get to is: there is an invasion. There is a movement worldwide of sexualizing children and when elementary schools try to have events for free speech saying don't sexualize our children, very aggressive people show up and have to be arrested. and that ties in with oh drag queen accidentally flashes their genitals at children. There's no accidental. This is going on. They're following a script. Here's Will Johnson in Austin, Texas, last night. Thank you, Jonathan. Well, I have been directly involved in this battle professionally for almost a year. One black transgender woman fatally shot today. where black as a father in her apartment- 27 a black transgender woman was fatally shot. and Prince George County, where the god of 21 black transgender woman was fatally shot in Cleveland. Malaysia Booker 23. a black trans woman fatally shot in Dallas, Michelle Tamika. So imagine a 300-pound man wearing a red wig wants to charge in an elementary school that's having to have a demonstration by parents saying: do not sexualize our children, not let men in dresses have contact with them- many of them convicted child molesters- and the police drag this man off and he charges back in repeatedly until he gets arrested and then begins squealing this we've got to get near your children or black trans men are going to be killed. help us, give us access to your children. and we're all dead. and there's all these videos of them coming to the city councils and saying: we're here to groom your children. oh, it's beautiful. oh it's so beautiful, oh it's so good, oh it's so wonderful. and a man has been convicted of killing a mother and two little girls. but it's okay, the media says because he's trans. he went to the house, raped and tortured him to death. we're going to tell you about that, not this individual in Austin. this is a story out of Connecticut. it's all coming up just howling, screaming, big fat man with red wig saying: I'm a woman, give me access to those kids, give me those children. I'm a woman, I need your children. across the space, time continuum, the demon force is trying to punch through into our dimension. will you stand against them? We have strong disagreement on policy grounds and I hope there's diversity in policy here. I don't care what your views are. I hope you articulate them and defend them and listen and debate them. that's important. but we have something in common. we have a set of values that are at the core of this country, that hold this place together. Clinton, deep state bag man Comey thinks it's funny that he was the leaker and that he lied to Congress in the world. he thinks committing crimes are funny and he thinks if he acts confident he won't get indicted. but word is, the criminal investigation is honing in on him. from my new home in New Zealand I will, oh. and now suddenly he's talking about moving to New Zealand. not so fast, criminal, we're going to bring you to justice and we're going to bring Hillary to justice as well, because if we don't, you criminals will continue to strike back at your enemy. but the American people know how much you hate us and we're fighting back at infowarscom, newswarscom and banned off video, Waging war on corruption. it's Alex Jones coming to you. live from the front lines of the info war. Ladies and gentlemen, the forces of hell are being released upon what's left of Christendom in the West, Once we got rid of our Christian values. it was like opening a door underwater to a submarine. the bulkheads are flooded and the worst of the worst have been turned loose. Nambla has long sought to have access to children in schools. they want to emancipate children as young as three years old to have sex with them, and they thought: how do we get past the taboo of men getting near your children. they try to get them out of the backyard, they try to get them at the park, they try to get them at the mall, they try to get them out of their bedrooms at night, climb through the windows, put the knife through the throats. how do they, the demons driving these people grabbing these meat buckets? how do they usually apply belly type mail? how do they do that? Well, they just dress them up like clowns so their identities are protected, and then call the clown. call the clown a woman. These are men in disguise as doing this and they've launched a full out assault and they're following a script. You'll see the same report in Australia that you see it in the United States or England or Germany on the same day, and they're all networking and operating in unison and it's all funded by the big universities, funded by the big art displays, funded by taxpayers. They're taken into schools- remember in Denver- and the elementary, and the parents aren't told that a drag queen, a transvestite, a man is coming to speak with their children on career day until second, third, fourth, fifth graders, that they should grow up and work in adult entertainment, and then the children sit on their laps, unannounced appearance, and then the man dresses a woman, sits on a table and then moves across the table and spreads their legs to the children and we're putting together a compilation, since this broke this morning, of them doing these exact moves. The next move is to ride them horsey. ride them horsey. and it's the exact same move. They sit on the table, they spread their legs like it's a woman inviting a man to come in and have sex with them, and it's a ritual. They are sexually marking your children and we've got videos of them saying: we're coming, we have them, it's beautiful. you won't stop us, you sick, evil people. we're going to have love with your children, we're going to get them, we're going to groom them. they're ours now. and then, in the ritual when the Stockholm syndrome, women bring their children to them at events, they sit the women on their laps, the women put the babies on their laps and then the men go and the children recoil and they go, and then that's a further demonic ritual: the demon manifest marking its territory for future slaughter. Now, that is what this is: they're going to slaughter their innocence. and in the satanic rituals that are conducted that have now been declassified by the FBI, this week Epic Times is reporting on it. FBI releases information on finders of secretive group accused of child sex abuse. no accusation, we have the giant file. I'll get it there in the break. I had Ted Gunnerson on 25 years ago exposing all of this and how they work and how they're operating. Now they have to get you to give up on your spirit and your discernment. they have to bathe you in corruption. so the new thing is sex with animals, sex with snakes, sex with rodents, torturing animals- and sex with bugs, centipedes, spiders, spiders, and so there's a giant new massive rollout hitting every channel. just, it's everywhere. today, Al Jazeera says not wanting to eat insects is racist. Texas Art Museum encourages children to eat bugs. Cheshire Home Invasion Killer tells podcasts he's transgendered. he's getting his transgender in prison. it's all cute, it's all funny. hey, you get those houses easier sometimes. you know the big bad wolf. what's the big bad wolf do? He dresses up like grandma. my, what big teeth you have. my, what big eyes you have. all the better to see you with my dear, yeah, grandma, what big nose you have. all the better to smell you with my dear grandma, what big teeth you have. all the better to eat you with my dear, and in Spain and in Portugal and in Germany and in Sweden and in Italy and in Denmark. no one knows where Little Red Riding came from, but they found over a thousand year old engravings in Germany and Spain of Little Red Riding Hood. and people told their children from age two: when you're walking through the forest there are men that dress up like women and they will kill you. so, even if someone's dressed like a woman in the woods, run. if you don't know them. run for your lives. they'll kill you and they will. from Transylvania to Austin, Texas. they are with us and they are amongst our children and they are powering up for their big move. sex with bugs, sex with pigs, sex with your children, grooming them, loving it. it's liberal, it's good. Full article: Paul Joseph Watson, infowarscom vice, shows fetish of people who incorporate bugs into their sex lives. oh, they incorporate them. that's like dossier or whistleblower- it's a fancy word here. let's stick earthworms in our butt. that's like the big tampon maker says: oh, men have periods too. and they instruct you into instructional videos how to stick a tampon up your rear. you're like that's complete mental illness. exactly you will accept mental illness. you will let men, convicted pedophiles come to your school unannounced and your children will ride on their crotches. and we're going to keep babies alive, we're going to keep them comfortable and we're going to take their goods, as they're never going to have a life and they're never going to have nothing. and we're going to take Alex Jones off the air and we're going to have Hillary Clinton's law firms sue him into oblivion and piss all over the grave of the First Amendment. so none of you can oppose what we're going to do to your children, because we love the children, even though they want to kill as many of them as they can. oh, it's not a baby, it's a fetus. and now it's not a baby. after it's born, it's time for pedos. so we'll show you all on tv viewers, radio listeners will break it down live, feed them full wars dot com forward slash show. we'll show you the people spreading their legs in front of your children. oh, and now they don't have any underwear, not, oh, i'm sorry, they're women. they don't have any panties on. how do you like? a bunch of sick men, a lot of convicted child molesters, child rapist, two of them in Houston alone, running drag queen story time, of course, when they're out on the town doing their- oh, one of them does a vampire kick dominatrix and says he's a vampire. of course he is. well, little piggy vampire. well, piggy, there's no makeup on there, oh, no, no, it's just. when he gets around your kids, there's full warping, big red smiles, big demon eyes. we came, come on, george, come right on over here. i got you boat. stick your hand down in here, george. you reach out to me, george, as god has a hedge of protection, but they can get the kids up close to him. have the kids somehow get used to it. since then the child can be beguiled by the big, bad wolf. hug the wolf, i'll get good, good, yes, soon they'll stop on the flesh of children openly. they already have all the feminists, you know the placentives gobbling them like um women rubbing blood themselves. attention, gcn self-reliance listeners. if you've ever wanted an emergency solar survival backup system, but we're waiting for prices too crazy to pass up, this will be the most important message you'll ever hear. bill hide here. i want to tell you about a huge sale with historically low prices on our ppx microgrid system that's going to let you produce an endless supply of electricity off the grid. the clearance price is a result of the historic flooding we're having here right on the east bank of the mississippi. because of the flooding, we've had to move a lot of our inventory to a temporary location and rather than move it back to the warehouse, we thought we'd offer the system at a price. that might seem unbelievable if you didn't know the floodwaters backstory. so here's what you should do right now: check out the ppx microgrid system at myownpowergridcom. that's myownpowergridcom. over a thousand dollars in great off the grid gear and a ton of bonuses too. in the best part, you're not going to pay 750 or 500 dollars, 300 or even 200. go to myownpowergridcom to learn more. that's myownpowergridcom. heart disease is on the rise. clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected by you, but the symptoms are there. loss of energy, blood sugar spikes and drops, poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong here. how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives across america. my blood pressure has normalized. my diabetes has totally improved. everyone is telling me now how much healthier i look, and i'm telling everyone how much healthier i feel. i recommend heart and body extract to everyone. anybody over 40 in the north american continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy. order your two-month supply today by calling 866-295-5305- that's 866-295-5305- or order online hbextractcom. heart and body extract, 866-295-5305 or hbextractcom. it is now an admitted fact: fluoride out of the water has caused tens of millions of americans to be brain damaged and to have infertility and low IQs. and it doesn't matter if the journal of american medical association comes out and says it's terrible. still, the city's put it in the water because the ruling globalists want you and your family poisoned and stupid and they sure don't want you to know about the good allergen, iodine, that absolutely increases IQ and fertility and makes life so wonderful and opens up your consciousness, your mind, everything. thank god, thank god. i discovered this eight years ago. of course, the enemy knows all about it and they hope you don't discover it. they hope you just roll over and die. so, whatever you do, don't visit info or storecom and get 60 off right now on the wake up the world to the iodine conspiracy combo: 60 off with x2 and x3, together with your bottle of bio truce selenium. whatever you do, don't go to info or storecom. just give up america. give up christians. drink your fluoride and die. give in to satan. give him. here are the facts: iodine raises IQ and, across the board, makes you more healthy. in thousands of top studies, including the american medical journal, every type of fluoride lowers IQ, massively increases cancer and destroys fertility. that's the facts. learn about the iodine conspiracy and then, once you've learned about it, protect yourself and your family. the reason i'm so hot on this is the globalists put the fluoride in the water while making sure we don't get the iodine in china. they put the iodine in the water and ban the fluoride because they've already got their people under their control. the globalists are targeting us here. please go to info or storecom. experience iodine and bio truce selenium that goes with it together, and then, once you see the great results, warn others. this is the achilles heel of the globalist. it's a win-win situation. the only way you lose is not taking action. take action now. you're listening to the alex jones show. all right, ladies and gentlemen, we're back live and i was working on some other big projects this morning, so i didn't do a lot of preparation for the show, did a lot of preparation last night, early this morning and i hadn't seen the article, drag queen accidentally flashed his children a story hour from national file dot com. i've gone back. what's great outfit, you know. co-host obviously, uh will johnson, week night's firepower seven to nine and it just hit me like a ton of bricks. all the clips we've got are where they purposely spread their legs in front of the children. these are men dressed as women spreading their legs to children, men's bare bodies in front of the children. so sick. and i can show you that the men come to these events with glitter on their genitals and it's so over the top, it's in person clothes. it's so crazy. when a children's event, a man shows up with a like six inch long, with glitter. we can show you here in austin- and the children pose with a naked man. you know, you've seen, when women go out, they just put pain on themselves at, let's say, a party beach. well, that's a party beach and that's men and women, consenting adults. if a woman did that at a regular family beach, people walk over and the police will walk over and say, hey, this is a family beach. but when it's a man, oh my gosh, a man dressed like a woman, with no background check for tb viewers, go ahead and just roll in the background. the latest one and then some of the others we've caught, uh, on tape. so it hit me like a a ton of bricks all the sickening examples of this and just how disgusting it is and how they're just again just searing our conscience, just throwing in our face for what's coming next, my god, an organized worldwide operation and children sticking money in their underwear. you want to see that? because i don't want to see it. but i can show you men with glitter, erect with little children in public. you want to show you that. you're going to show you all the little kids twerking at the quote: gay pride parades, five six-year-olds shaking their asses while big fat men drool over it. and, by the way, we had tv stations call up and say: you know, we think this is too hardcore. we love your show, but can you not show this? hey, i get it. adult shows. news programs shouldn't be showing this, but they're showing children. it's in public schools. i can pull up detroit, michigan, denver, colorado, austin, texas, where unannounced, you drop your child off at public school, in elementary school, and these people come in and your children sit on their laps while they talk about shaking their booties and do all this sexually provocative stuff. i mean it is disgusting. you know people talk about john vane ramsey and how these children events are pedophilic. yeah, some of that stuff gets creepy. there's some of that definitely going on in fashion shows for kids, but it's a minority of it, but it's still creepy. but with this stuff it is 100 percent, 100 sick and evil and it's why they wanted us off the air. they said: you stop talking about radical islam, you stop talking about the sexualization of children and we'll leave you on the air. well, guess what? you can put a gun to my head. i'm not gonna back down. you people are sick. it's like george sorrow said to 60 minutes: well, if i wouldn't have helped round up the juice, somebody else would a totally sociopathic view. well, if i don't turn the kids over to the pedophile, somebody else will imagine that attitude. so might as well oversee it, hell, might as well get into it. huh, george, these people are evil. so i'm gonna, i'm gonna go to break and i'm gonna come back and get into the sex with bugs. and i want to explain something. i know that's something you probably never thought of, uh, until i started seeing them promote it, i'd never thought of that. um, this is all over the news. this is on cnn. that's broadcast in the public schools. you know, public schools nationwide, almost to a school show in first period. a 10 minute cnn brainwashing video. look at these headlines. algezera not wanting to eat insects is racist. texas art museum encourages children to eat bugs. we're gonna play these clips. vice has got a big report out how wonderful it is to have sex with bugs. yeah, diseases. nobody's ever gotten before can now get that. i mean, this is dangerous. they're telling you how to have sex with, um, all sorts of animals. the weirder the animal, the better for these people. you know, i learned about a hollywood party once where they were having sex with animals- a very prominent person. they told me about it and you know i've had nightmares about it, nightmares, nightmares. and now you don't need to actually hear about it from somebody, you get to see it on the news. how great it is. oh, you haven't had sex with a centipede or earthworms. how about with an armadillo? yeah, it turns out. i was reading some people are catching leprosy because they're having sex with armadillos. they're like where the hell does that come from? uh, it doesn't come from this planet, i can tell you. it's just a broadcast. it's a spirit, a psychic broadcast to kill ourselves and be evil. that's what satan is, the whole universe, is, is, is, is is filled with life, filled with entities, and everybody knows that. every ancient culture knew it. and there's some really bad stuff in the universe. and if you tune into it, really bad stuff happens and if enough people tune into it, it can take over your civilization. and it always does the same thing: kills and tortures children, tortures and kills children. uh, it's vampiric. that's what it wants. so you know, you see something like a brand stoker's Dracula, you know out of the book, and Dracula's bringing babies to the his, his brides, to drink their blood. well, that's what satanists do: they have orgies while they torture babies to death. and that's a fact. that's history, it's what goes on and it's going on right under your nose and it's getting ready to go public, ladies and gentlemen, and it's coming for you and your family and it's winding up. it's satanist operatives in texas and in ohio to go up and shoot places up. these are all antifa, these are all devil worshipers. go to an antiva event and they are satanists. they are all into not having any sunshot on their skin. they are all into blood and death and killing babies and they will tell you they worship satan. you think, oh well, they just said that to shock me. no, we've infiltrated their groups. they are the most sickening, evil, bad people you can imagine. they are disciples and slaves of satan and that's what we're fighting. it's a spiritual battle period. and now all over the world, children are put in front of bizarre methhead looking man- many of sex crime individuals, convicted sex criminals- and they do this. and now there's new videos out of the little boy. but they were going to cut his testicles off, seven year old, and then the father got the videos out. he's now gagged where little boy's like: daddy, i don't want to do it, mommy says i have to, and the governor had to get involved and gave his testicles a reprieve. this three days ago his testicles were given a reprieve on friday. that's america, folks, where children have to be given governors reprieves, not from the electric chair, not from the lethal injection, not from the gas chamber, but from psycho moms who are pediatricians that want to, you know, write books or whatever about it and get all this power and literally just take that scalp and just shake that scalp in the air. destroy that manhood. finally, there's a way for you to get into the blockchain, the hottest financial sector, without all the speculation. no, enjoy a 27 annualized payment each month, without the ups and downs of bitcoin seen on programs broadcast on fox business news. blockchain data centers offer an equipment leasing program in the explosive digital asset marketplace. inspired by entrepreneurs who sold picks and shovels during the gold rush, the money is in the mining equipment used to manufacture dozens of critical digital assets, not a security, ipo or note. blockchain data centers have proven turnkey equipment sale leaseback program with a 27 annualized lease payment deposited into your bank account each month. don't miss this one. stake your claim today. call 800 600 3388. that's 800 600 3388. these valuable lease contracts won't last long. call now 800 600 3388. 800 600 3388. equipment offer poses a financial risk to owners. consult with financial professionals before purchasing, not an offer to buy or sell the security which requires an offering document. again, i'm not talking down to the info wars audience, but i've been banging my head against a wall for a long time on this and i'm talking about fluoride and i'm talking about i and i. now, if you have a boat, a motorboat- let's say an old glass tron boat- and you want to take it on the lake, you've got to have a lake to put it in. if you're a human being, you've got to have oxygen to live. okay, it's the same thing. well, ladies and gentlemen, the bad halogen is fluoride. that's why in every western nation, they put it in the water. they're going to teach us christians: lay down and die the chai comes. don't put it in the water. they'd execute you if you did that. they put iodine in the water because it's the good halogen and increases fertility and lifespan and intelligence and everything else. so again, learn about the iodine conspiracy at infowarstorecom- we have all the documents and articles linked- and then get good iodine for yourself, because the globalists are fighting to make sure you don't again get iodine at infowarstorecom. info wars presents alex jones. in august of 2019, jamma, or the journal of the american medical association the most prestigious, came out and said: oh my gosh, just a little bit of fluoride in the water causes lowered IQs, massive infertility and a lot of babies die in the womb, and it causes cancer. that was just one of thousands of studies admitting this. you know it's illegal to have even one part per billion in the water in places like california unless it's part of adding fluoride. and then they have a waiver and can add thousands of deadly chemicals to your water because the liberals love you and they want to sexualize your children. so, whatever you do, drink lots of fluoride and don't get the thing that counters the iodine at infowarstorecom. drink fluoride and die. drink fluoride, dirty americans and roll over. do not visit infowarstorecom and get high quality iodine to counter it. no, roll over and die dirty americans. info warscom- forward slash show folks. ask me, alex, why do you have two different types of iodine? well, that's because different types of physiologies, different types of metabolic systems and people will like different formulas. it's just that simple. x3 is the deep earth crystal iodine and two other types because some people need all three types to absorb, others, like the pure atomic iodine. get both. they're both great for you. whichever one you like, use that and give the other to family or friends. bottom line iodine is essential. that's why i harp on it. the globalist want you to be deficient in it for a lot of reasons. lower iq makes you sluggish, you don't live as long. it's simple. get your high quality iodine infowarstorecom and help fund the info war infowarstorecom. we've got a huge sale running right now, but it's about to end. it's the iodine challenge: both types of iodine with selenium for 60 off together. you're listening to the alex jones show crashing through the lies and disinformation. it's alex jones coming to you live from the front lines of the info war. so i'm sitting here getting ready for the broadcast and last night i took home a copy of the fbi report that got released a few days ago about the finders organization. it turned out in the late 1980s, early 1990s, that was a cia, a leftist cutout running out of a cia building in in dc. this came out even in mainstream news with kidnapped children and even killing them for stuff films. so it's, it's. it's jeffrey epstein- stuff again. jeffrey epstein is just a manager above that. he gets people into the first level- uh, sex with underage girls- and then they tell you to get in the real club. uh, you got to kill little kids and uh, that's just what they do. so i was reading last night at home and i also had another copy of my office printed- two copies of this year's day. i was reading and everybody went to bed. probably a hundred pages of this and i only got partway through it. and it's just devil worshipers all over the country taking over small towns, ritually abusing children, programming them, creating, uh, multiple personalities, that having the children recruit more children um schools, elementary schools, with satanic temples underneath them. the fbi went in, confirmed it, found the temples, found the pentagrams, everything it's all right here. that's what trump's releasing. i think they're a little bit pissed. there's a 10 fold plus increase the amount of pedophiles and actual pedophiles with kidnapped children in cages being busted. you'll hear about it: 400 plus busted here, 300 there, 500 here, 200 there, 20 here, 70 here. and then you never hear about it again. you think the courts are upset. why do you think liberal leftist judges are just disregarding first amendment, now disregarding everything, just going after all the trump supporters because most of them have sex with children? okay, these are devil worshipers, they're in a club. how do you think they took over the catholic church, 3000 plus priest. the state police own report in pennsylvania confessed 3000 plus that they had sex with children in satanic rituals in pennsylvania alone alone, 3000. and the state said we can't prosecute 3000 people because the priest all said: by the way we did it for these people. there's a satanic group above us and they name names and that's in the pennsylvania news and it just shuts down. who do you think the pope is, ladies and gentlemen? he took over the catholic church- 100 now at the top- and they, they're taking over all the major churches, all the major colleges with pedophile rinks. it's how they do it. first they get you to have sex with an underage hooker, then they blackmail you or they send you child porn and they go: oh, oh, we know about the child porn, but we won't put you in jail if you work with us, and most people are so. well, it's not mine, but okay. well, here's what you need to do. that's who we're up against: the evil of the evil, of the evil, of the evil of the evil. you see, evil exists, and thomas jefferson was once asked what is the level of tyranny at which tyrants will stop, and he said: it is the level at which you resist them. there is no bottom, bottomless, bottomless, pit, bottomless. the bible talks about the evil running to and throw evil men inventing new evil. they invent evil. they invent: hey, let's, let's have sex with, let's, let's, let's, let's rape possums, let's cram earthworms up our rear end. i mean, i'm about to play you mainstream newscasters worshiping it. just oh, it's oh, sex with worms, the latest craze, aren't you into it? you're like what? oh, they're just trying to get attention. no, they're not. there is a scientific plan. you think any of this is by accident. it's all standardized. they standardize the phones by federal law in 96 that by 2000 all phones had backdoors and gps tracking, and it was a worldwide agreement. everything is standardized, worldwide plan and worldwide. convicted pedophiles are marching out in clown paint and women are bringing them like they would bring their children to, to, to, to bail, uh, or to molok, to be thrown on the fires. and they bring them to them and the women get high as a kite and go, because the thing of putting your kid on the lap of a monster. the women get a thrill out of it because they're lost, they're leaderless and they were taught. you know, their dad spoiled them. they're spoiled and so they got fined. a man that will abuse them. but what's better, find a man who'll hurt their child. these are demons we're gonna go to break. i need to play this special report. it's critical, and then we're gonna come back and i'm gonna. they're putting a compilation of the drag queen spreading their legs, the kids now everywhere and the children riding them. it's happening now. they're gonna start having sex with them in public. stay with us, hey, steve, how you doing? hey, alex, oh my god. long time listener, first time caller, alex, i gotta tell you, man, i don't care what anybody has ever said about you, you have read, you know more human beings than anybody on planet earth and god bless you. everything you stand for, everything you've done, you are the best man. i mean, it's the absolute truth. and when i heard you today with this live call and you, you encourage people to call in, i said that's it, man. i'm just gonna break down. i gotta tell you. i look, in january 2016, i went in the hospital. i went to va hospital out here in boise and i was in there until june and one of the only things that got me through that ordeal was listening to info wars every day for three, three hours a day, and i kept hearing dr group and all you guys talking about living defense. let me tell you something, man: i had an internal digestive problem and i suffered with it for about five or six years and the doctors. they tried every test. nobody could figure out what it is. and then every day, when i kept hearing you and dr group and those commercials, i said: you know what? i'm gonna get me some of that freaking living defense. now, i wasn't supposed to have any nutritionals because they don't want you to have that stuff, but i ordered it, had it shipped to me, i got it. i hid it from the nurses. i started taking it. man, that stuff changed my life. it saved my life. alex jones and info wars saved my life. listen, man, if there's any veteran out there, i don't care. if you've traveled, though anybody's traveled overseas. you absolutely owe it to yourself to get two bottles of that living defense. steve called in and was talking about, if he just joined us, how he was in the va, really sick. nothing was working. you got a bottle of living defense that doesn't just flush out the big parasites. it's designed to go after all the microscopic ones and folks. this i thought would be our best-selling product. i mean, it's sold some, but this is the strongest, best natural herbal compound that'll flush your guts out, okay. and then we've got the myco zx. that gets out the candida, the, the mold, the yeast because people take probiotics. that's great. you know the good bacteria because as you get older a lot of the good bacteria are flushed out. you take antibiotics. it kills them all, uh, or there's other toxic bacteria. you know that that push out the good bacteria. so what's good to have things that are fermented or things that have a lot of natural bacteria? i'm like yogurt or sauerkraut pickles. those are all great sources, uh, naturally. but nothing works good like a good probiotic. but you got to have the other thing like a myco zx that flushes out the yeast, the mold, the candida. but then to go after parasites, well, that's living defense and so this is the best you're going to find out there. that's over the counter, okay. and if you go places, i don't want to be gross, but if you go places like cuba- i've been told by everybody that goes there- most beautiful woman you'd ever want, imagine- but they're begging for dewormer because the government won't produce it or sell it and people can't get it and so people are taking dewormer. people go there with the dewormer and people you just they'll do anything for it. you know cases of guards, women or whatever, just for you know, for the dewormer. pretty gross, right, but that's how it is in communist countries. well, there's all sorts of stuff out there that the medical system won't tell you about, and so we're not competing with their death traps and what they're doing, we're just saying living defense. well, alice, i'm telling you, every listener out there should order a couple bottles of this, because everybody's got parasites, whether you think you don't or not. if you've ever eaten any kind of seafood anything like that, obviously you do sushi. forget about it. you're riddled with parasites and i don't know of a better product, and i've done a lot of research since i had this miraculous turnaround in my health. i started looking into it and there's no better product out there. we're not making this up just like our information's game changing. we have strongest agreement on policy grounds, and i hope there's diversity in policy here. i don't care what your views are. i hope you articulate them and defend them and listen and debate them. that's important, but we have something in common. we have a set of values that are at the core of this country that hold this place together. clinton deep state bag man comey thinks it's funny that he was the leaker and then he lied to congress in the world. he thinks committing crimes are funny and he thinks if he acts confident he won't get indicted. the word is, the criminal investigation is honing in on him. from my new home in new zealand i will, uh oh. and now suddenly he's talking about moving to new zealand. not so fast, criminal, we're going to bring you to justice and we're going to bring hillary to justice as well, because if we don't, you criminals will continue to strike back at your enemy. but the american people know how much you hate us and we're fighting back at info wars dot com, news wars dot com and band off video. please listen to this information because it can save your life and it can save the life of others. there couldn't be more critical information for your physical body. god's more important when it comes to your soul, but this is most important when it comes to your body. if people didn't know that you put motor oil in a car's oil container to lube the engine, they might be able to be conned and think you put salt water in it, but it would seize up the engine pretty much instantly. well, if they put fluoride in the human body, it causes cancer, dums us down and destroys fertility if you put the good halogen in the body. high quality iodine. it's like putting good, high quality motor oil in the car that's supposed to run on it. it's that simple. find out about the iodine conspiracy at info wars store dot com and find out what the globalist hope that you do not. research this information, ladies and gentlemen, whatever you do, research iodine deficiency- it's the key to everything- and then go and take advantage of the 60 off combo with our two different types of high quality iodine and bio tricillinium and for store dot com today. but, as you know, there's been a long term look at, look see and it looks like it's becoming very serious from what i'm hearing. investigate the investigators whether it's struck and page whether it's flopper and whether it's comey and all of these people because terrible things went on for our country. you just heard the president. the investigation is criminal, it's very serious and what is about to come out is going to shock the world and info wars was there before it all happened telling you it was coming. if we just continue to expose these criminals and we'll be there while it unfolds and we'll be there, thanks to your support, when the enemy strikes back. this is an ongoing battle and your support is now more critical than ever. i leave it all up to the people that are working with the attorney general, who i don't know, but i will say this: i think you'll see things that nobody would have believed. this was the worst hoax in the history of our country. hey, steve, how you doing? hey, alex, oh my god, long time listener, first time caller. look, in january 2016, i went in a hospital. i went to va hospital out here in boise and i was in there until june and i kept hearing dr group and all you guys talking about living defense. let me tell you something, man: i had an internal digestive problem and i stuck with it for about five or six years and the doctors- they tried every test. nobody could figure out what it is. and in every day, when i kept hearing you and dr group and those commercials, i said: you know what i'm gonna get me? some of that freaking living defense. now, i wasn't supposed to have any nutritionals because they don't want you to have it, but i ordered it, had it shipped to me, i got it. i hid it from the nurses. i started taking it. man, that stuff changed my life. it saved my life. if there's any veteran out there. i don't care if you've traveled, though anybody's traveled overseas- you absolutely owe it to yourself to get two bottles of that living defense. it's true, folks, we don't sell anything unless it's the highest quality, and living defense is over the top. good, you're listening to the alex jones show. so imagine 20 years ago if we told you that powerful billionaires were financing organizations chanting at every major university in march into the streets saying no borders, no wall, no usa at all. imagine universities set up banning costume parties because they may hurt someone's feelings, and big national polls and studies outward 60 of millennials say: arrest people for any politically incorrect speech. and where every major democrat candidate says they want armed gun confiscation that will trigger a violent civil war. and that governors would be passing laws in places like new york and virginia to keep babies alive after they're born until they line up all the organ purchases that are about to happen. and then quote gay pride parades from coast to coast and in europe with small children, seven, eight, nine, ten years old, twerking and shaking their butts, while men look on drooling with erections in their pants. look at that. if your team of you are sorry, i have to show it. that's america 2019, and the left came out defended it said: kids can handle kink. the new york times salon hubby can post all of attack to me for criticizing the great gift they're giving our children as they groom them, in their own words, for pedophilia. what do you read in the bible? what do you read in history books? every time society about to fall, evil arises and men dress like clowns, come for your children, send in the clowns. you know, in ancient egypt there were satanic sex that killed children and they dressed with red curly hair and white skin and great white shark, red open mouths. that's where the clown comes from. that's why you don't get down deep down. how many horror movies are there now where the devil works for just like clowns? they have open satanic rituals now at churches that allow it to happen, and then everyone dresses like clowns, demon clowns. they're flaunting it in your face, ladies and gentlemen. what's it the clown do? he takes the energy of children. what steven king's new movie coming out about? dr sleep, the sequel to the shining? there's vampires, but they don't live forever. they just take the essence of children while they torture them to death in incredibly excruciating pain. they're flaunting it all in your face: their religion, who they are, are what they're doing, and psychic adults pick up on the cries and the anguish of the children being tortured to death as they cry out to god, the universe, save me, help me. and those of us that are dialed into it have to feel it all and everybody's dialed into it. that's why you're scared, it's why you think something's wrong, something's got to be done, and they do. oh, it's al qaeda. that's why you're scared. oh it's. it's the mean white supremacist everywhere. because you're picking up on the evil right next to you, the coming at you through the national news, coming at you through the schools, through all of it, and all these servants that are just whipped up into it. i know a lot of adults. we have children in private school, public school, you name it, and it's send their children to parties. and my children are older now. they go to parties that you think would be normal and they come home and they go dad, and they call me, they go, i don't want to be at this party anymore and i go why? and they go? all they're talking about is assuming gender and weird sex stuff and everything, and the parents are all weird and and it's because california- the worst of california- has moved to austin and, without me even bringing it up, i have other parents that i know going. man, you know my daughter has come home and they're, like you know, 11 years old and they go. why are these girls all saying they're lesbians and why are the teachers encouraging and why is it all about sex? we're not supposed to be into sex at 11. the little girls all know they're like: i don't want to go to this school anymore. i don't want to go to this party anymore, because it's everywhere. it's making its move, ladies and gentlemen, on the children. you can feel it, you can see it and there's all these people dialing into it and submitting to it, even though they're not conscious of it. it's a spirit, it's a transfer and it's a psychic attack and they want to put you into a trance where you're just not really thinking about it. so it slowly, incrementally, builds up till you're gone. call an exorcism, call whatever you want. you need to think about god and your will and god's will and say: get away from me, you're not part of this, i'm not going to be with this evil. i want these evil spirits away from me. that's what all this is. you have to put up your bubble through god's strength in the spirit that you are protecting your children protected, and you're not of this world. you're not of this system. there's no way to stand against it without god. now, rob do, just threw together a short compilation. this is even the worst stuff. okay, this is what's happening to small children in the streets of america and on tv, and small children talking about taking ketamine, a gang rape drug, with convicted murderers on tv. you cannot make this up. these aren't just convicted child rapists, some of them are murderers that chopped other men up. here's the report, here's the compilation. we are grooming the new generation of americans to be fully embracing of diversity and inclusivity. imagine you went to topless bar. i've been bit one in the many years. the last one was, like joe roguelikes, one of the drag queens reading for drag queen story time. drag queen story time. imagine: go into a topless bar and there's five real girls dancing, or ten-year-old girls you'd call the police for kicking ass the children. for the little boys it's okay. okay, men dressed like women, licking their lips, shaking their butts in front of kids- kind of agenda. i'm was told at the library council meeting last night that i'm pushing the trans agenda. i'm pushing an overly sexualized agenda. are you nervous? yes, do you want to touch my hair? no, and for the children and the people that support it are going to realize that this is going to be the grooming of the next generation. that's the whole. goal is to make kids that aren't used to seeing something like me more comfortable to seeing it. michael likes to twerk. now, does anybody in this room know how to twerk? turn around and shake her butt, shake them, shake them, shake them, shake them. it was a first for this branch of the public library too. the hips on the dragon go swish, swish, swish. you're ready to listen? you're very lucky you don't see this right, you get better. and if you crouch down into this on a business here, so your bum sticking out, if you're taking this all in and then you just move your bum up and down like that and that's twerking. a lot of the core values of being a drag queen- love, acceptance, joy, laughter, self-expression- are values that we want to instill in our kids. so i think it's really important that we bring this program and the joy of just spreading love. all these kids commit suicide at record rates. it's our fault, not the parents, not the sick ones and everywhere else it's called pedophilia. but when it's done institutionally and they can get away with people dressed up like demon clowns with your children, pull up tranny time in the new york schools. this is put out in new york times like it's wonderful and it's the biggest scary looking group of weirdo potbellied men. looks like a bunch of denise hashtards running around with you clown makeup on, just hopping around rubbing their giant bellies in front of children, and you're like what alternate universe is this? what planet did i wake up in? all right, now let's play this short clip of the little boy that just got a reprieve by the governor to don't have his testicles chopped off: james younger, here he is. his father's been gagged, but here he is saying: daddy, i don't want to be a girl. here it is. we are grooming the. i am a boy, i am james, i am a boy. but then the mother gets seemed to say: i want to be a girl because i like girls, and they go: oh, don't worry, my sweetie, we'll take care of those for you. very sick, very evil. oh, but it's so wonderful you're not supposed to criticize it in any way. we're going to go to break, come back in the second hour, open the phones up throughout the transmission today on this subject and so many others. but just god, help these children, because this is what you're seeing in public. you know what's going on. we know satanists are taking over towns, schools, institutions all over the country. fbi 200 plus page report naming with towns run by satanist, with the police departments under their control, raping your children. we'll be right back now. what i'm about to say is incredibly obvious and i'm not talking down to any of the viewers or any of the listeners. i'm just stating the facts. i own a chainsaw. i've had it since i was in college and it's a great good old chainsaw and i've used it probably 500 times, but a few times i've forgotten to oil it and it seizes up really quick and i feel like an idiot for not oiling it. now imagine if somebody told me to put, let's say, super glue- uh- in the oil container on it. it would seize up forever, but only an evil person would do that. well, fluorides like putting super glue at a chainsaw. it's going to make it seize up and that's why they put it in the water and they admit they're doing it to hurt you and your family. yes, they're really evil. iodine is like putting oil in the chainsaw to help with the gasoline lubrication. it's that simple. i know you understand this, but let's warn other people before it's too late. it's part of the iodine conspiracy. find out more at m4storecom and take action against the globalist carbons everywhere on this planet. it's almost like we're carbon-based life forms. folks ask me, alex, why do you have two different types of iodine? well, that's because different types of physiologies, different types of metabolic systems and people will like different formulas. it's just that simple. x3 is the deep earth crystal iodine and two other types because some people need all three types to absorb, others like the pure atomic iodine. get both. they're both great for you. whichever one you like, use that and give the other to family or friends. bottom line iodine is essential. that's why i harp on it. the globalist want you to be deficient in it for a lot of reasons. lower IQ makes you sluggish. you don't live as long. it's simple. get your high quality iodine at m4storecom and help fund the m4m4storecom. we've got a huge sale running right now, but it's about to end. it's the iodine challenge. both types of iodine with selenium for 60 off together. you're listening to the alex jones show. where are the clouds? send in the clouds just when i stopped opening doors. okay, i uh came in here ready to cover the gop's nightmare scenario which we have to look at or trump could lose if we're overconfident. and i- i don't just say this because matt drugs links to my articles again with my you, i mean i say it because i know why. i mean, i was gonna shoot a video last week- i just never got around to it- where the type of videos that drudge links to is where i'm like how dare you say red flag, lost rump. whoever's telling you this is a liar. if you do this, you're destroying yourself. or why aren't you fighting the censorship? why aren't you standing up for assigns? why are you committing political suicide, not making these key moves? he's doing a lot of great stuff, but if you have a fire maybe a hundred days out of the year in your fireplace and then one of those days you take coals out and throw them across the room, you're going to burn the house down, doesn't matter. the other nine, nine days you have the fire properly going here and uh. so you know drudge is right to publish or to link to these reports and a lot of people like it calls, probably ten times a day, text messages. you know what about drudge? what about drudge- and it's this huge hysteria out there about you know he's linking to stuff from the enemy. well, if i saw people trying to come rob my house and i'm looking out the front window and i see the robbers getting out of their van with crowbars and masks, i'm not going to get mad at my eyeballs for showing me that i'm going to get my shot gun out, and so i see it as the same thing when i come out and say: stop the censorship, free of signs, back off on the gun control. it's because trumps moved the right direction on a lot of those since we did that and drudge linked to that because that's hard core and that makes sense and and so drudge is speaking through what he links to and linking to hard core stuff. like you better back off on the red flags, better leave our due process alone. hey, you better go out for the censorship, buddy, we really care about you, trump. so if i disagree with something that drudge is saying or doing, i'll- i mean, i'm just automatic, i'll say what i really think i have been super critical of the president. hell, i would imagine i'd probably influence drudge. drudge says i've influenced him. i appreciate some of his nice statements. he's put out in the past that i'm one of the best shows out there. but we need to be upset. there's massive election fraud. trump barely won three years ago because of a giant landslide and he barely won because the fraud- and remember i'm the guy that told you he was going to win and laid out the facts and the real polls. well, i'm looking at the numbers and he is very, very popular, more popular than was three years ago. but there is unbelievable fraud being pulled out right now and people being registered, the names of dead folks. that's been proven by the lawsuits, by traditional watch and others, and so if you think they had their act together to rig stuff three years ago, man, they are. this is the biggest salt. so people better and i'll tell you because paul watson, even before drudge started, really you know getting more critical of how much trouble trump could be in. because it's true, watson goes and hangs out some with the you know, high-level, mid-level republicans, you name it- some of these big events, weddings, things like that in dc in virginium and he was just like. it's disgusting. the people are nice, but the trump worship and trump can do no wrong and we're invincible and the trump dynasty is going to reign for a hundred years. man, that's the stuff that has ss titanic written on the side of it. i mean, that is just not good, not good, not good, not good, not good, not good, not good, not good, not good, not good. people like: hey, they admit they want to take our guns. wow, that means we're gonna be able to stop them now. no, that means they're getting ready to make their move. they want a civil war. my god, ladies and gentlemen, they're openly having children do strip teases down to their underwear in front of men with erections, and the news is saying it's a good thing in the new york times. they're not doing that because they're playing games. they're making their move. they're making their move. they're making their move. are you ready? what are you gonna do about it? what are you gonna do about it? we'll talk about when we come back to 60 seconds. please stay with us again. i'm not talking down to the info wars audience, but i've been banging my head against a wall for a long time on this and i'm talking about fluoride and i'm talking about i and i. now, if you have a boat, a motorboat- let's say an old glass tron boat- and you want to take it on the lake, you've got to have a lake to put it in. if you're a human being, you've got to have oxygen to live. okay, it's the same thing. well, ladies and gentlemen, the bad halogen is fluoride. that's why in every western nation they put it in the water. they're gonna teach us christians: lay down and die the chai comms. don't put it in the water. they'd execute you if you did that. they put iodine in the water because it's the good halogen and increases fertility and lifespan and intelligence and everything else. so again, learn about the iodine conspiracy at infowarstorecom- we have all the documents and articles linked- and then get good iodine for yourself, because the globalists are fighting to make sure you don't again get iodine at infowarstorecom, crashing through the lies and disinformation. it's alex jones. satanism is about taking the spiritual code of the universe and defiling it and twisting it and making it ugly. when a leaf lies up to a beautiful flower and collects that pollen, that is a beautiful ritual that the creator of the universe designed: a planet, an atmosphere, an ecosystem and millions of generations of bees still living on and seeing the universe and experiencing all of that. and that's just the bees. you think about men and women coming together, the ancestral line of the woman, the ancestral line of the man coming together and creating a new creature that can experience the universe, beauty, pain, exaltation, humiliation. it's all a giant experience, it's. it's, it's god's dream becoming consciousness and life throughout the universe and free will. but because that exists, there is also those that will dial into very, very bad things. they can't create anything good, they can only defile. and so when women kill their babies, or when women kill their babies after they're born, or when women take their children to the trendy drag queen story time- and it's incremental- it's first them in, dance for them and then give them books about sexualizing them and telling them what their future is going to be. the parents probably haven't even done that, but a weird man they don't know in a clown outfit's doing it. next he shakes his butt the next time they come and talks about their booty. and you know, boys can be girls, girls can be boys. then he torques and shakes his butt and the kids come up and give him dollar bills the next time he spreads his legs. and he's wearing underwear. next he spreads his legs, his genitals are hanging out. we showed this last hour all over the country. the exact same ritual, the same dance. they get on the table, they spread their legs, they put the children in their laps, the mothers lay them on their crotches. it's a public exercise of power, it's a ritual, it is a defiling. you know, you look at the classic satanic rituals and i'm not going to go into them here on air, the compendium of the them. but most people get into it because then you're going to get to have sex with hot chicks or whatever. that's just low level. that's like chicken feed to get the chickens into the weasel dens. the weasel can eat you. but it's all about humiliating people, hurting people and it's all about defiling god. and it came out. the catholic church in pennsylvania alone. this came out. the report last year i almost no coverage but it was in the mainstream news: 3000 plus priest in the the state police state report who had confessed to sex with children, mainly little boys, and that they would have black masses in the churches on friday nights and on halloween and things like that where they would gang rape little boys and then they would give them the sacrament: this is my body, this is my, this is my blood. and in many cases they gave the little boys hiv so they didn't just rape them in the mouth and in the anus, they would then give them a disease. why do you think bill clinton for 15 years knowingly shipped out factor eight blood product with hiv and hepatitis in it? they knew it, had it in it and then when- and the executives it turned out in their transcripts- said, good, there's too many hemophiliacs, it was a blood ritual to hurt so many people. the hiv was created, it was put in the hepatitis vaccines, it was given to gay men in new york as a vector to spread it. and they use these men that are their slaves today to spread this and to do all of this. and this is the nature of evil. these are rituals being conducted, and so, when vice has shows about pedophilia being a great thing, they've done those. or sex with bugs. it's all about the filing your body and all about doing things that don't help anybody or anything except hurt you. and it's the openness of our free society to the extreme to bring down our free society and the high priest running this whole thing. now tell us: your children belong to us, your speech is ours, you will do as we say. your money is ours, your guns are ours. they want absolute total power. and then you see the people that are their low level serbents. they're just like out of the art type. they are grimer worm tongues. they are are renfields. and what is renfield in brahm stoker's dracula? what does renfield want? he begs count dracula to be able to eat bugs and to be able to torture and kill rats, rats. and then he just handles the children for dracula. and that's what these are. these are just minions that they send out. so let's do this. let's just tear these back to back. i'm not gonna hear the whole things. the whole things are on info warscom and news warscom. let's air part of the vice piece: sex with bugs that alga zero says not wanted to eat, and sex is racist. and then eat a bug at the school for kids here in texas, the museum and channel 12. so they're telling you it's. it's time to lower yourselves, it's time to defile yourselves, it's time to become a renfield. here it is. you can hear the mealworms- or superworms in this case, uh, squirming around in there, uh, renfield, i'm just gonna take out a few for our demonstration purposes. well, there's a couple of things that you can easily do with them. the first and foremost, these superworms are an interesting sensation: squirmy, they move a fair bit and they have a sharp feet for gripping. so this is an archetype- superworms also- of raping will bite. i will put usually a bit of honey onto something that i onto an area i want them to bite. yes, i know other people who use juice from cooking hot dogs in the microwave. then the earth, just like guys use white trucks, rinse these all candy puppies. it's all an allegory. now talk about the earthworms. they feel very unnatural and you can feel that contracting and expanding against the skin. oh, there's certainly a taboo in the kink community around. uh, former kofilia play. listen. there's definitely folks who have concerns around consent. i don't worry over much about issues of consent. see, it's about right about a maggot, um, because that maggot has no prior reasoning, uh, or thought process really of any kind. um, i very much don't feel that way about, say, my dog. my dog clearly is capable of making decisions and doing all that hell. he has power over something to do, uh, and thus her consent is important, which is one of a myriad reasons why i would not have sex with my dog, other than not being interested in sex with dog. we were talking about anxiety earlier, and i wish y'all could feel my heart beating right now. oh no, i'm gonna eat it off the floor. it's a five second rule. it's all psychological warfare against you and your family. apparently, these are flavored with text: joy, yeah, what you're gonna give me if i eat this. i need more than a sticker. you see that i need more. can i, can i get a day off of work if i eat this? hey, that even tastes crunchy, it's not bad. cry, put it in your mouth. i'll do it with you. put it in your mouth, do a cheers. okay, it's all about getting access to your children. what are the? what did local news in uh houston say when the kids were coiling trying to run away from the men? rest his clowns, calling themselves drag queens? they should gotta get them while they're young. okay, do so happily, like in china, korea, mexico and india. so the chutneys made out of ants. and, if you think about it, we in the west eat some pretty weird stuff: rotten milk with fuzzy blue mold spores, fishes, looking creatures with bdi's in large claws or pulverized animal flesh encased in the intestine of another animal. so if we can eat all that, why do some of us find bugs so gross? is there a way to overcome that disgust? these are actually really delicious, and which bug tastes the best? to find out, my team and i headed to new york city to try tasting them for ourselves. all three of us are in the frame again. this is all about assaulting western culture. they want to put taxes on all the meat and ban it. they've all admitted. well, they're right, but they're going to say it's racist. if you don't do it, we'll stay with us. finally, there's a way for you to get into the blockchain, the hottest financial sector, without all the speculation. no, enjoy a 27 percent annualized payment each month, without the ups and downs of bitcoin seen on programs broadcast on fox business news. blockchain data centers offer an equipment leasing program in the explosive digital asset marketplace. inspired by entrepreneurs who sold picks and shovels during the gold rush, the money is in the mining equipment used to manufacture dozens of critical digital assets, not a security ipo or note. blockchain data centers have proven turnkey equipment sale leaseback program with a 27 percent annualized lease payment deposited into your bank account each month. don't miss this one. stake your claim today. call 800 600 3388. that's 800 600 3388. these valuable lease contracts won't last long. call now 800 600 3388. 800 600 3388. equipment offer poses a financial risk to owners. consult with financial professionals before purchasing, not an offer to buy or sell the security which requires an offering. document. hunters, anglers, campers and survivalists: get back to nature. expand your horizons with the highest quality, most versatile, unique sling shots and sling bows on the market at sling bow dot com. sling bow products are compact and models start from just 1798. they're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle. give yourself and your loved ones the excitement and tradition of sling bow, a new frontier in archery and truly modern twist on this primitive survival tool. feel the thrill only at sling bow dot com. hi, i'm dan pilla. i started fighting the irs over 40 years ago when they tried to seize my mother's house. i sued the irs and won. i beat the irs then and i've been beating them ever since. i wrote the book on tax debt settlement and i've helped thousands of people deal with tax problems they thought might never be solved. i can help you too. if you owe taxes you can't pay, don't wait another day. there's no such thing as a hopeless tax case. call 800 34 no tax or go to my website, dan pilla dot com. that's dan pilla dot com. dan pilla dot com. hello here. my name is buffon. i work for my father, lucifer, and he doesn't like the fact that god gave you all families and children. and so we want to tell you something right now. christian countries, we took control of you over a hundred years ago. we've been spiking your water with fluoride and lower your fertility and it hurts you and it's worked so well. but now, because of liability and because of people warning inside the government, what's happening? the general of american medical association and others are admitting what we've done and makes me so angry. so, whatever you do, just stay in that haze and drink fluoride and give it to your children, and don't visit info war store dot com and learn about the eye and conspiracy and get 60 off on x2 and x3 together with bio crystallinium from the mustard seed. submit to us info war store dot com. we have strong disagreement on policy grounds and i hope there's diversity in policy here. i don't care what your views are. i hope you articulate them and defend them and listen and debate them. that's important. but we have something in common. we have a set of values that are at the core of this country, that hold this place together. clinton deep state bag man comey thinks it's funny that he was the leaker and that he lied to congress in the world. he thinks committing crimes are funny and he thinks if he acts confident he won't get indicted. the word is, the criminal investigation is honing in on him. from my new home in new zealand i will well, oh, and now suddenly he's talking about moving to new zealand. not so fast. criminal, we're going to bring you to justice and we're going to bring hillary to justice as well, because if we don't, you criminals will continue to strike back at your enemy. but the american people know how much you hate us and we're fighting back at info wars dot com, news wars dot com. and band our video. you're listening to the alex jones show. well, i was summoned from montgomery. i had my guitar on my back when a stranger stopped beside me in an antique Cadillac. he was dressed like 1950, half drunk and hollow eyed. he said: it's a long walk to nashville. would you like to ride waging war on corruption? it's alex jones coming to you, live from the front lines of the info war. in the front seat it turned on the radio home and them sad old songs coming out of them- speakers- was solid contrago. then i noticed the strength. all right, we just spent an hour and 20 minutes on the full out assault on america's children, the children of the world. men now flashing their genitals of children, children riding on men, and public schools, elementary schools, gay bars, libraries- but they're not gay bars, are they? they're pedophile bars. now, and that's the tolerance of america. and the very tolerant groups that run all this are now telling us we don't have any speech, they're gonna arrest us for our speech. well, we're gonna exercise our speech and we're gonna take action and we're gonna come out of the trance and go wait. this little seven-year-old boy is gonna start chemicals to castrate him and finally, at age 10, have his genitals cut off. and there's video, little boy saying he doesn't want it, even if he wanted it. that's mental illness. that's that's. if i wanted to cut my hand off, they put me in a mental institution. they put kanya weston one for two weeks because he put him in there for two weeks. two weeks because he said he supported trump. but if a mother likes to get publicity, showboat or kid around, why then she can get parts of the body chopped off, the judge said. but the governor got involved and that judge ran for the hills to see. they're like, hey, this one will get away, but if you make too much of attention to make this boy a martyr, we're not gonna get to millions. let him go, we're gonna get all those and we'll get him later, don't worry. and they know the boys are gonna rebel later when their testicles are chopped off and so they drug them up real good, make sure they commit suicide by about 18. and the mission's completed. and it's done so delicately, it's so carefully, my pretty, because all of this must be done very in PR voice, very delicately, because you don't want your patient to wake up on the operating table while we take their soul and everything they ever were and ever would be with us forever. because chopping their penises and testicles off is just a way to freak them out and screw them up so we can put them under psychiatric care and slowly depress them and use them as a slave until they finally die beautifully and the arms of satan forever. oh, it's so, labor. you see, i show you their real soul, just the surface. it's much worse beneath there. i really don't want to tune into it to you. but you can't avoid it anymore because you can turn on the news, you can walk down the street. you can't go anywhere without their offensive. i was in san diego a few months ago. i was in a small town a few weeks ago, outside austin, and i walked in to little breakfast coffee shops two different times and there were big plastered signs for drag queen story time at the coffee shops and images of men and satanic at the clown war paint and children sitting on their lap just like a hunter mounts a moose head on the wall. it was smiling like a pig and you know what. then you looked a little piggy weirdos behind the counter and you're like boy, that's a pita. have i ever saw one? and of course i don't eat food there. i leave. you think i want those dirty, filthy hands touching those eggs? oh, they want the eggs. all right, ladies and gentlemen, you're facing bona fide satanist. they got a plan, they got a general and they're coming for you and the question is: what are you going to do about it? because it isn't just something to. when you watch fear factor and they're eating donkey testicles or eating beetles, something gross to get ratings, the people involved in it don't know what they're involved in at the time. but if you read the ciad classified documents of all of it: ugly, architecture, ugly culture, ugliness, like the joker movie, ugliness, ugliness, ugliness. so you give up on god when you can go out in the field and look at a tree and some birds and see a hawkland and you would have a connection to god, or you go help somebody to have a connection to god, even the ugliest place. but instead it's just all meant to make you feel sorry for yourself and just give up on life. and then, right at that point, here comes the devil along, offering you sanctuary, offering you shelter. but it's not shelter at all, it's induction into life, isn't it tragedy, like you thought? embrace evil, be part of the bad in the world, kill your mother, kill your children, kill yourself. it's a comedy, be a joker, but really it's not a joker, it's the mouth of a predator. see how that works. and then they celebrate: it's beautiful and cool and deep and powerful acting- oh wow, so big. you think walkie being phoenix looks like a psycho killing people in that movie. that's nothing like the real thing. you think that guy looks scary? you ought to see what those kids see when they're getting tortured for days, begging for their mommy. and you better remember all you know. it's true and all you know it's happening. and if you don't take action and speak out against these people and if you don't get involved, it's on you and you will stand before god. and if you haven't resisted this but all you did was glitterbug over at the church and act nice all day and act like you're a holy person, god is going to throw you out of your ass and you're going to be out in the cold with the group you bowed down to for eternity. and if you want to be exiled with these people, then, katie, bar the door. there's something wrong with you. you know they spend all this time telling us there's no devil. there's no evil in the universe, but it's all around you and that's what they serve. none of these people are atheist, ladies and gentlemen. they just don't want you to have night vision. they're in the dark and they don't want you to see them there and they want to tell you there's nothing out there, because they are weak and they want to take you down with them. you're their prey. when they're pathetic, we'll be right back. eight, seven, seven, seven, eight, nine, alex. eight, seven, seven, seven, eight, nine, two, five, three, nine. on this subject or any other subject you want to cover: eight, seven, seven, seven, eight, nine, two, five, three, nine. eight, seven, seven, seven, eight, nine, alex. first time callers, stay with us. fellow patriots, my name is todd savage, founder of black rifle real estate dot com. like you, i was a prisoner of the out left sanctuary state. until one day i chose to lead my family to freedom. today we live on a sustainable 20 acre homestead where we shoot, hunt, garden and homeschool our children without the tyranny of the nanny state looking over us. if you're ready to flee the city to the freedom of idaho or montana, our black rifle real estate team is here to help go to black rifle real estate dot com. that's black rifle real estate dot com. hunters, anglers, campers and survivalists: get back to nature. expand your horizons with the highest quality, most versatile, unique sling shots and sling bows on the market at sling bow dot com. sling bow products are compact and models start from just 1798. they're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle. give yourself and your loved ones the excitement and tradition of sling bow, a new frontier in archery and truly modern twist on this primitive survival tool. feel the thrill only at sling bow dot com. hey, steve, how you doing? hey, alex, oh my god. long time listener, first time caller. look, in january 2016, i went in a hospital. i went to va hospital out here in boise and i was in there until june and i kept hearing dr group and all you guys talking about living defense. let me tell you something, man. i had an internal digestive problem and i stuck with it for about five or six years and the doctors, they tried every test. nobody could figure out what it is. and then every day, when i kept hearing you and dr group and those commercials, i said: you know what i'm gonna get me some of that freaking living defense. now, i wasn't supposed to have any nutritionals because they don't want you to have it, but i ordered it, had accepted me, i got it. i hid it from the nurses. i started taking it. man, that stuff changed my life. it saved my life. if there's any veteran out there. i don't give you travel, though anybody's traveled overseas. you absolutely owe it to yourself to get two bottles of that living defense. it's true, folks, we don't sell anything unless it's the highest quality, and living defense is over the top. good, please listen to this information because it can save your life and it can save the life of others. there couldn't be more critical information for your physical body. god's more important when it comes to your soul, but this is most important- it comes to your body. if people didn't know that you put motor oil in a car's oil container to lube the engine, they might be able to be conned and think you put salt water in it, but it would seize up the engine pretty much instantly. well, if they put fluoride in the human body, it causes cancer, dumps us down and destroys fertility. if you put the good halogen in the body- high-quality iodine- it's like putting good, high-quality motor oil in the car it's supposed to run on it. it's that simple. find out about the iodine conspiracy at m4storecom and find out what the globalist hope that you do not. research this information, ladies and gentlemen, whatever you do, research iodine deficiency. it's the key to everything and then go and take advantage of the 60 off combo with our two different types of high-quality iodine and biotrystallineum and m4storecom today. here are the facts: iodine raises IQ and, across the board, makes you more healthy. in thousands of top studies, including the american medical journal, every type of fluoride lowers IQ, massively increases cancer and destroys fertility. that's the facts. learn about the iodine conspiracy and then, once you've learned about it, protect yourself and your family. the reason i'm so hot on this is the globalist put the fluoride in the water while making sure we don't get the iodine in china. they put the iodine in the water and ban the fluoride because they've already got their people under their control. the globalist are targeting us here. please go to m4storecom. experience iodine and biotrystallineum that goes with it together, and then, once you see the great results, warn others. this is the achilles heel of the globalist. it's a win-win situation. the only way you lose not taking action. take action now. you're listening to the alex jones show live from austin texas, broadcasting worldwide. it's alex jones, any story. you want to talk about anything. you want to cover anything. i've talked about that. a lot of clips, a ton of news and a special guest in studio coming up the fourth hour, i'm hosting toll free number to join us: 877-789, alex 877-789-2539. on this tuesday edition, let me read you a text message. but a friend of mine in the media, whose name i will not say uh, sent me saturday, sends me nice messages of the day, just just for me. it's a great encouragement message for the day. survival is victory. stay on the air and we win. arrange everything needed to stay online and keep broadcasting. your very existence means they can't monopolize the narrative. you were born for the events unfolding over the next 13 months and i encourage that individual as well to stay on air and just keep fighting and how critical things are. obviously i'm gonna stay on air as long as you keep us on air, but the enemy is just enraged that they haven't been able to destroy us and they have tried to plant child porn on us. they have tried to destroy my family. they try to take my children. they have done everything they can, but god is there as a hedge of protection. so please keep praying for info, wars and whatever you do. realize the power that you have when you tell people about articles and videos that you send out from news wars dot com or band on video, or info wars dot com articles every day on every subject. it's all there. whatever you think is most important, whether it's humor, whether it's hardcore news or whether it's a special report, share them from band on video. and david knights talked about this. i've talked about this a lot, but we need to do it. we're gonna start every week- you'll do one, i'll do one- a subject on the federal reserve or a you know kind of like prager university informational videos- and i've done a lot of those over the years- that we're really going to go with that model more and set up things where it's just boom, boom, boom on the subjects- five minute videos, the fundamentals of how things work- and just go down a line. and it's an understatement to say you're keeping us on air. i mean it's, it's total, and i gotta tell you i don't just want to stay on air, i want to expand into 2020. i want to do some really important things. i want to put aircraft up with messages that will get massive attention around the country and will have a huge critical effect and will trigger others to do things in 2020 that are decisive that i haven't announced yet, but i don't have the money to do it, and every time we start to go back into the black- and i've got extra money- my sense of urgency goes away and then we go into the red again, literally. in the past i would always have extra money to work with, but the globalists have done a lot of stuff to try to stop us and i've, you know, i've helped a lot of people that i think are doing critical work with no strings attached: a lot of groups, a lot of organizations- i mean pretty much anybody you can think of. it's prominent- we've cut big checks to with no strings attached, and i don't like not being able to do that anymore. i don't like being able to take the extra profit we have and not do things because i, by the grace of god and discernment, basically everything we've ever tried or done, has had a huge effect, some of it devastating, to the globalist. i mean devastating, and i'm a lot smarter and wiser than i was five years ago, ten years ago, and to not have the capital to do the things i want to do is very frustrating. so i'm going to go to your calls and go to all this news, but i was going to make this very, very clear. a caller called in sunday and said: i'm 61 marines, i've been in months at the va, i was dying, i was going to die. and boy, they said no supplements, no supplements which they had never taken. and he got living defense and his gut problem went away and he's fine now. he couldn't believe it. well, we just take stuff that you know people, a thousand years ago in europe and five thousand years ago in china were taken to kill parasites in your gut. okay, and what we've been advertised is that it's just good to flush you out. it's a lot of good herbs concentrated. and you heard what the caller said and people bought now half of what we have left over. but i'm not going to raise the price from 1995, even though we barely make any money at that, because this is a high quality interstitial, it's concentrated, there's no fillers, it's the real deal. look at 100 reviews of living defense. and i was just telling my general manager- you know the guy that manages things for me, good friend of mine, been here 15 years- i was just telling two weeks ago i said: you know, i don't know, we'll have the money that reordered living defense next year because we, you know, we ordered 10 000 bottles of it at the beginning of last year or this year. we're looking at the next year and i said we sold almost all of them at this point. we got a few thousand bottles left and i don't know the money really to buy it into next year, to have more for next year. and people love this because i've got to pay bills now with money i'd use to buy more stuff in the future and then just showing up, that guy calls in and we've sold out most of it now. but that's just an example of what i'm talking about here and i need people to think, hey, we need to go get t-shirts at m4storecom and spread the word and support the broadcast. we need to go get the ball caps. we need to go sign up for the coffee and sign up for the fish oil and the turmeric things you're going to use all the time and for auto ship additional 10% off. so you don't forget, because this is really critical to fund plus our coffees. right up there is some of the best you're going to taste, different drugs for different folks, but everybody says this is really delicious, this is gourmet, what? why is it so inexpensive? because we don't mark it up, even 100%, still the same price. i've been selling it for 10 years. they sell it under another name and Whole Foods in places for about five dollars a pound on average. more so comes ten dollars more a pound and i wanted to undercut them. so we make like six, seven bucks maximum on a pound of this stuff. never raised the price on it. a lot of that's, i guess, my fault problems. i've habituated everybody to only buy the product, but when it's a really good price and so i've got to sell a ton of it again. if i sell 40 million dollars worth of product in the year- and i've done that before- i've got 20 million to run this place and with bandwidth and crew and legal all things, that's not enough money. folks get on, explain: this vice gets billions a year and they're going bankrupt. fox gets 250 million a year from mbc and everybody they're, they're can't make money. buzzfeed gets 400 million dollars a year. they're going back, just given to them, just give it. that's not 400 million dollars worth of you know of sales and then they've got you know 20 million dollar. i mean 200 million dollars, that's that's, that's total money they get to spend. so that's what i'm talking about here is info wars. is is one of the most important resistance points in the world. the enemy says it, they know it, they can't stand it. and i don't want to put on airs here and say we're really important, we just are, you're important and i care about staying in this game 110. so i see that excitement by the listeners because the caller calls in and tells you how great a product was for them. folks, the iodine will change your life, it all will. tumeric's amazing, fish oil's amazing. it's all there in full war store dot com and i know a lot of you are buying the product. that's great. but for most of you that don't buy the product, you're just kind of sitting back like, oh yeah, you understand, it's not just the product you're getting, it's what you're funding, what you're doing. it's such a revolutionary act. and so please take action today at info wars store dot com and get your living defense before it sells out. i'm gonna leave it that price. get the new, it's okay to be okay hat. get all the other big specials we've got. everything must go 40- 70 off. store for shoes, shipping, double patriot points. it's all gotta end very, very soon and thank you all for your support, but now's the time to take action and to support our local affiliates as well and spread the word about them and become a sponsor of those guys. that is critical as well. please stay with us now. what i'm about to say is incredibly obvious and i'm not talking down to any of the viewers or any of the listeners. i'm just taking the facts. i own a chainsaw. i've had it since i was in college and it's a great, good old chainsaw and i've used it probably 500 times, but a few times i've forgotten to oil it and it seizes up really quick and i feel like an idiot for not oiling it. now. imagine if somebody told me to put, let's say, super glue- uh, in the oil container on it. it would seize up forever. but only an evil person would do that. well, fluorides like putting super glue in a chainsaw. it's going to make it seize up and that's why they put it in the water and they admit they're doing it to hurt you and your family. yes, they're really evil. iodine is like putting oil in the chainsaw to help with the gasoline and lubrication. it's that simple. i know you understand this, but let's warn other people before it's too late. it's part of the iodine conspiracy. find out more at infowarestorecom and take action against the globalist carbons everywhere on this planet. it's almost like we're carbon-based live forms. folks ask me, alex, why do you have two different types of iodine? well, that's because different types of physiologies, different types of metabolic systems and people will like different formulas. it's just that simple. x3 is the deep earth crystal iodine and two other types because some people need all three types to absorb, others, like the pure atomic iodine. get both. they're both great for you. whichever one you like, use that and give the other to family or friends. bottom line iodine is essential. that's why i harp on it. the globalist want you to be deficient in it for a lot of reasons. lower IQ makes you sluggish. you don't live as long. it's simple. get your high quality iodine at infowarestorecom and help fund the info war infowarstorecom. we've got a huge sale running right now, but it's about to end. it's the iodine challenge: both types of iodine with selenium for 60 off together. we have strong disagreement on policy grounds and i hope there's diversity in policy here. i don't care what your views are. i hope you articulate them and defend them and listen and debate them. that's important. but we have something in common. we have a set of values that are at the core of this country, that hold this place together. clinton, deep state bag man comey, thinks it's funny that he was the leaker and that he lied to congress in the world. he thinks committing crimes are funny and he thinks if he acts confident he won't get indicted. but word is the criminal investigation is honing in on him. from my new home in new zealand i will. oh, and now suddenly he's talking about moving to new zealand. not so fast, criminal. we're going to bring you to justice and we're going to bring hillary to justice as well, because if we don't, you criminals will continue to strike back at your enemy. but the american people know how much you hate us and we're fighting back at info warscom, news warscom and band video. again, i'm not talking down to the info wars audience, but i've been banging my head against a wall for a long time on this and i'm talking about fluoride and i'm talking about i and i. now, if you have a boat, a motorboat, let's say an old glass tron boat, and you want to take it on the lake, you've got to have a lake to put it in. if you're a human being, you've got to have oxygen to live. okay, it's the same thing. well, ladies and gentlemen, the bad halogen is fluoride. that's why in every western nation, they put it in the water. they're going to teach us christians: lay down and die the chai comms. don't put it in the water. they'd execute you if you did that. they put iodine in the water because it's the good halogen and increases fertility and lifespan and intelligence and everything else. so again, learn about the iodine conspiracy at info wars storecom- we have all the documents and articles linked- and then get good iodine for yourself, because the globalists are fighting to make sure you don't again get iodine at info wars storecom. you're listening to the alex jones show live from austin texas broadcasting worldwide. it's alex jones. all right, i'm gonna go right to your calls. ryan and jacob and kathryn and jill, paul, johnny, black patriot and many, many others that are patiently holding and falling out of the broadcast. i'm trying to move through these as quickly as i can in the order that the calls were received. now i had a whole show ready and then i saw more videos of men dresses, women spreading their legs to children, now with no underwear on, and i had a convulsion on air which was real, and people save us from pretty riveting radio in the first hour. i'm totally exhausted right now and totally pissed off because this is unnatural, it's evil, it's out of control and they know it is. they're just getting us ready for it and ganging up on us and taking our free speech. i have stacks of news where they're shutting down people's free speech. will johnson went down and to an elementary school yesterday. in fact, see if i meant to call will johnson last night. this morning i was watching firepower last night with he and uh tom papper and i just didn't get around to it. see if you can get johnson in here, um to co-host with myself and uh constitutional lawyer, famous lawyer norm pass can be a studio fourth hour, see, because we're already going to be talking about all these serial killers and people who now call themselves transgender. maybe get him on the last 30 minutes with uh paddus here with us. he can do that. but then there's all this other news. i mean there's just stacks of incredible stuff. uh, mainline media is questioning whether al bag daddy was killed. wow, i'm being sued for questioning public events and saying could it be staged? and then the listeners don't believe something happens. so we look at both angles. but mainstream media can say they don't think that trump had killed al bag daddy. you know as much as we've been lied to about some of the past. that's totally normal to question that. i don't think trump would do that. that's not his style and he wouldn't want to have people having that over his head that they staged it. i with most stuff that you see with trump. it's real and we know that guy was deep state being protected by insiders in our government. we know trump didn't tell anybody except select ribs so he could kill him. i believe he was killed but it's totally reasonable to be like the russians, everybody else and and and not believing it because we've been lied to so much. that's completely healthy and normal. we've got that. where'd you hear this three years ago when she lost? and then where did you hear it ongoing since then from sources that she still runs a democratic party, runs the democratic party- uh, phone calls, conference calls, which is now confirmed- and that she tells folks she's still running well, info wars dot com. steve wants an article. long time clinton advisor hillary is running. feels she was put on earth to be president. yeah, don't underestimate her evil, her mental illness and how she still holds the purse strings. she's suing me through these law firms that she runs publicly wants to be shut down. i had a 2020 and it goes on, with dick morris talking about that. people just can't believe she'd do it. she's totally arrogant, she's totally insane. now she still may not, but she has every intention of doing it and that's why you see such a weak field and all the rest of it. but she is telling people she is. i mean, look at these headlines, look at what's happened to our country. now we're just abandoning our values that have protected us. it made us who we are. more than half of american students want wearing offensive halloween costumes to be punished. all joseph watson: out of control drag queen flashes crotch to kids at library story hour in minnesota. i love how they say what they are, so we call them that. you're a man in war paint dressed up like a woman showing your genitals. little girls, they used to have a name for that. that happened in the park. he'd served 10 years in prison, but now, oh, it's art. look at this guy: chess jar, home invasion killer tells podcast host he's transgender in prison now. i guess he'll get his weenie and stuff cut off- the taxpayer expense- other sick ritual. but let's go to your phone calls right now. let's go to jacob and then we'll go to other callers: jacob, jacob in south carolina, thanks for holding her on the air. hi, alex and hyunee. yes, i can't go ahead. oh, okay, nice. uh, i want to say god bless guys for everything you've done on your show and and what you're doing for america. well, god bless you, brother, you've been following you since 2000. hey, do me a favor. if you've got your phone away from your face or something muffling it, can you talk right into your phone? yeah, can you hear me better here? yes, i can go ahead, okay, um, and anyway, i've just been a long time follower and you thought you touched on a topic this morning. um, with this transgender in the library. um, with you. weirdo, what it is is a pedophile invasion with organized increments as they sexualize more and more. the children now ride them, the men now show their naked genitals, the children. this is organized crime. yeah, you know, i've seen that video that you're showing when you're talking about it and it's just heartbreaking and just very upsetting and frustrating and, um, you know, but i mean, it looks like a meth head, crazy person on the side of the road spreading their legs to a kid. but it's the media directing it and the organization is directing it because they're training us to accept hell on earth. yes, i have, and you know, the other thing is i have a deep red dog with her. what i say about this is they have one of those transgender library times, the one of the local public church, uh, our libraries here, and i emailed the church and i asked them if they were going to make a present, you know, at this event for, you know, just to stand up against it. and the email i got back was basically: no, we don't get involved with these types of things, that we just pray for it. that's right. we just hide. we just hide. god bless you, sir. well, will johnson went to an austin event. we're at the elementary school. the parents went and protested and and a big fat guy with a wig on tries to physically stop him from their speech, so he gets arrested. i mean, it's just, and again, silicon valley is run by this weird spirit of men dressed as women saying no one can criticize us. we're god, we're victims. do what we say: let us have access to your children right now. we're going to groom them, get them to us, we need them. i mean, it's just unbelievable. i'm not going to torture people by playing the audio right now, but i played it earlier. it's on info wars dot com, a band on video. uh, let's uh go to kathryn in texas. kathryn, you're on the air. thanks for holding hi. elix, it's good to talk to you. first of all, i want to, i want to thank you so much for your products. my daughter would constantly get cavities and i didn't understand why. i finally was awoken to the fact that fluoride was causing her teeth to break down. i started her on your toothpaste, the super blue toothpaste, the bubblegum flavor. she loves it. not a cavity sense, not. well, that's amazing. you know, the american dental association, seven years ago, began to say: don't brush your teeth with fluoride toothpaste till age seven because it causes dental fluorosis and chalking- my dad, by the way, is a dentist- uh, and break down of the teeth. and now even children's toothpaste no longer has fluoride in it- most brands- because of all the lawsuits. totally true, causes infertility, brain damage in your children and does not make the teeth stronger. it's all a giant hoax, all a huge lie. it's sickening also. what's sickening is, um, hello, pedos dressing up as women, demon women, and talking to our children, splashing themselves. what the hell- excuse my language, but what, oh how dare you? how dare you? well, i mean, what about when they're convicted child rapists, like the two guys that one raped a eight-year-old and a seven-year-old, and they were leading the whole thing dressed up like it the clown, with children riding horsey. what's wrong with that? it's disgusting, it's absolutely gut wrenching disgusting. like projectile. you don't want to have children ride horsey on convicted pedophiles, weenies, hell no, and that is why i homeschool my daughter. can you imagine how crazy it's going to get if they're already this out in the open? i mean, they are making their move. it's disgusting, it's absolutely disgusting, and it just it makes you. it makes you shake, it makes you, it makes the the, the spirit of god, come in you so strong and it makes you shake and it makes you want to. just, i know what it makes you understand. well, let's put all that in the information warfare: aggressively spreading the word, because again, they banned us everywhere except their own platform, so people can't see the horror. i mean, i showed video last hour- i don't know if you saw it- of men with nothing but but glitter on their genitals rubbing on small children in public and children shaking their butts in front of drooling men with with erections on tv. really gag, disgusting. but you understand this is satanism. if they can exercise it out in the open, they believe it gives them power. that's literally sickening. i agree completely. god bless you and i'm sorry i gotta cover all this folks. i mean, believe me, i, i just come in here and i just like i knew it was coming next. i even said this like a month ago. i said they're spreading their legs everywhere. next there'll be no underwear, and now they're doing it. i told you. i told you, i told you they're coming for your children. info wars presents alex jones. in august of 2019, jamma, or the journal of the american medical association the most prestigious, came out and said: oh my gosh, just a little bit of fluoride in the water causes lowered IQs, massive infertility and a lot of babies die in the womb, and it causes cancer. that was just one of thousands of studies admitting this. you know it's illegal to have even one part per billion in the water in places like california, unless it's part of adding fluoride. and then they have a waiver and can add thousands of deadly chemicals to your water, because the liberals love you and they want to sexualize your children. so, whatever you do, drink lots of fluoride and don't get the thing that counters an iodine at infowarstorecom. drink fluoride and die. drink fluoride, dirty americans and roll over. do not visit infowarstorecom and get high poly iodine. counter it, no, roll over and die dirty americans. infowarcom forward slash show. it is now an admitted fact. fluoride out of the water has caused tens of millions of americans to be brain damaged and to have infertility and low IQs. and it doesn't matter if the journal of american medical association comes out and says it's terrible. still, the city's put it in the water because the ruling globalists want you and your family poisoned and stupid and they sure don't want you to know about the good allergen, iodine, that absolutely increases IQ and fertility and makes life so wonderful and opens up your consciousness, your mind, everything, thank god. thank god, i discovered this eight years ago. of course, the enemy knows all about it and they hope you don't discover it. they hope you just roll over and die. so, whatever you do, don't visit infowarstorecom and get 60 off right now on the wake up the world to the iodine conspiracy combo: 60 off with x2 and x3, together with your bottle of biotry selenium. whatever you do, don't go to infowarstorecom. just give up america. give up christians. drink your fluoride and die. give in to satan. give him. you're listening to the alex jones show. all right, folks, we're going to play this special report when i come back after this quick break. we're gonna get do nothing but your phone calls throughout this hour: bam, bam, bam. so please, everybody, stay right there. but here's a report john bound file. this is very critical. bag daddy was being left alone by the globalist and others that area of syria. trump has stepped aside and had him destroyed. bag daddy has been on the run for many years, long before i took office, but in my direction as commander-in-chief of the united states, we obliterated his caliphate 100% in march of this year. today's events are another reminder that we will continue to pursue the remaining isis terrorists to their brutal end. that also goes for other terrorist organizations. he's ending what obama and hillary started their on record: creating isis with saudi arabia and launching those attacks. yes, we do need to go after bag daddy, and just like we went after bin laden- uh, while you were doing celebrity apprentice- and we brought him to justice. but that's how donald thinks, you know, he always looking for some because we don't gain anything. now my next guest claims that back in 2011 that the us military had a major, major chance to kill or capture al bag daddy, but the bureaucracy put in place by the obama administration let him get away. when the teams had actually located bag daddy and pinpointed into a house on the ground- uh, by that time us troops had told, been told, to get out of iraq. they've been told to leave, and so, typically, a raid that would have occurred that same night by an assault force, a team of special forces guys going in there to extract a target, uh, from a compound. they then had to essentially wait two weeks for the call to be made to allow these guys to go in and by that time, he was gone. bag daddy doesn't stay anywhere for two weeks. trump staged a coup operation inside saudi arabia last year and remove the isis al qaeda backers and told saudi arabia: if you do it again, i'm going to kill the leader of saudi arabia, we're going to remove you. and they jumped and clicked their heels and said: yes, sir, these are incredible times in saudi arabia. there's never been anything quite like it the fact that they've been. these very high profile establishment figures have been removed and, very importantly, the head of the national guard, prince mitad bin abdallah, has been removed, relieved of his command. that removes at a stroke the final obstacle to the crown prince having total control over the country. washington post changes al bag daddy obituary headline after calling isis leader austere, religious scholar austere. what role did russia play in the operation? why did trump not inform democratic leaders in congress? why did he take a lot of credit to himself, specifically alluding to the idea that baghdad's death was bigger than the death of osama bin lad? the reality is, we've walked away from the courage right at the time where they were giving us intelligence. that apparently was key to this operational victory, according to them, and what my sources are telling me is that takes the counterterrorism pressure off isis and that risks an isis resurgence. and so this may be, as you said, an operational, tactical victory, but strategically, donald trump has set the fight against isis back significantly. what is your reaction to the death of al baghdad? well, obviously, it's a major milestone, and it's one that we all should be welcoming, quite plainly, but it doesn't mean that the fight against isis is over and it doesn't mean that we can declare mission accomplished and and just walk away. obama funded the arab spring. obama funded the attempted islamic takeover through his cousin odinga in tinnya, and then for the very democrats and deep staters and globalists that overthrew qaddafi, put al qaeda in charge there, took the weapons, invaded syria, bragged about it, he stabilized the whole middle east in north africa, to turn around and say that trump's gonna cause terror when the so-called terrorists say they're attacking us normally, that a lot of them are globalists- handled, there's a bunch of cowards because we're in the middle east. but the truth is, the globalists have been working with saudi arabia to turn the world over to radical islam and trump is actually fighting it. he's not playing games, and getting our military out of the middle east is exactly what we need to do. then, if they attack us, we blow the living hell out of them, ladies and gentlemen, but we have to pivot to communist china. that is the main area. folks ask me, alex, why do you have two different types of iodine? well, that's because different types of physiology, different types of metabolic systems and people will like different formulas. it's just that simple. x3 is the deep earth crystal iodine and two other types. because some people need all three types to absorb, others, like the pure atomic iodine, get both. they're both great for you. whichever one you like, use that and give the other to family or friends. bottom line iodine is essential. that's why i harp on it. the globalist want you to be deficient in it for a lot of reasons. lower iq makes you sluggish. you don't live as long. it's simple: get your high quality iodine in four store dot com and help fund the info war. info war store dot com. we've got a huge sale running right now, but it's about to end. it's the iodine challenge: both types of iodine with selenium for 60 off together. live from austin texas. it's alex jones, alexander vidman and his twin brother. they're from ukraine. they look at his background: big liberal, big democrat, and he's one of the supposed people that heard trump on the call say things were wrong. funny, there's all these witnesses in a transcript. trump would never do that. so there you go. that's what's going on there, and here's what one of the president's former top lawyers under bush, john you, had to say about it? national security official. his name is lieutenant colonel alexander vidman. he's going to tell impeachment investigators tomorrow- and a statement that's been distributed to- uh, some media outlets- that he twice reported objections over trump's call with ukraine. but get this. this is buried in the new york timespiece tonight, but i found it very interesting. um, he's a- he's a decorated colonel, by the way, in the iraq war. but because colonel vindeman emigrated from ukraine along with his family when he was a child and his fluent in ukrainian and russian, ukrainian officials sought advice from him about how to deal with mr juliani, though they typically communicated in english. now, wait a second, john. here we have a us national security official who is advising ukraine while working inside the white house, apparently against the president's interest, and usually they spoke in english. isn't that kind of an interesting angle on this story? i find that astounding and- and you know, some people might call that espionage, folks- the whole new world order system is espionage against the country. globalism is against our country existing. when trump said we're nationalists and we should be proud of america in his houston speech last year, the national story for a week was that it was white supremacism. but the nation existing is evil. let's, let's go to your calls. i'm gonna go to them fast now. no matter how good the calls are, i gotta get to the next person and move on from there. who's been holding the longest? is it jill? is it paul? is it johnny? it's a black patriot. is it andrew? is it x dalis, chip brian? the longest-holding person would be paul. then we've got a black patriot, jay and others. uh, go ahead, paul, in ohio. thanks for calling. welcome. hey, alex, i love you. you're a brother. um, i pray for you and your organization. um, i'm a long-time listener. never called in before, but um, i've been buying your product since you rolled out silver bullet and i take quite a few of them. i'm in my fifties now, but i feel like i'm back in my thirties- been excellent. um, bodies are amazing. uh, what i called in about was: i've been- i can't get this off my mind- i've been thinking about a deep state, hail mary. and this would be a scenario where it doesn't really matter who. but let's say, elizabeth warren is the is the uh candidate and she gets like an andrew yang as a vp. so they go through those months of you know town halls and debating trump. um getting vetted by the media, so forth. and then they, uh, they hold a town hall. it's like a big left media um event where warren and yang are on stage with maybe a rachel matta or, uh, anderson cooper or boat, and they got the transgender basketball star in the front row and were maybe 20, 30 days out from voting day and all of a sudden a maga, hat wearing patsy, rushes the stage and maybe, maybe shoots it up, maybe blows it up, but literally takes out warren and yang and your media star rachel matta, uh, maybe the transgender basketball star too. and now we have a national crisis, but the left has no interest in delaying or postponing the election because they'll say that would make trump a dictator. and so in that last few days before voting day they have a new emergency meeting of the dnc and hillary is nominated, or, or, i think, michelle, oh yes, even, because this way she that way. there's no vetting, there's no time for her to face the scrutiny, no one questioning after the great loss. i, i bet money. they've got scenarios like that on the on the blackboard. i mean that is exactly the type of crap they pull. yeah and see. so there's michelle, and you know she's popular and you know there's people that are leaning to trump but would maybe vote for michelle if she was the candidate. and then she sweeps into office with an unprecedented mandate to go after, because this guy, once they find out who he is, he's gonna have an alex jones tattoo on his back and there was an air 15 in the trunk of his car that's plastered with info war stickers and they're going to have a mandate to pursue. you know anybody right of mouth shut down info wars. you know, really, and that's why we've got to come out immediately. when they staged stuff like this- because we know they staged um texas, in ohio, there were real shooters but they were both antifa, said they were going to do it. the police stood down in both cases, uh, and it was carried out to blame gun owners. i mean, they were both antifa and they successfully covered it up. in texas they did in ohio. they they call the police on him more than a dozen times. he said: i'm a devil worshipper, i'm gonna go kill a bunch of people. uh, we're gonna get. i mean, it's incredible, yes, exactly. well, that's definitely the type of scenario they pull are. they might just detonate a small nuke inside the capital. they may shoot up the republicans that at a baseball game again. uh, before they do something that elaborate, they may just kill president trump. you know claim that al qaeda had a you know serviced air missile and somehow it got through the defenses and blew up the president's helicopter. i mean, there's no, but i'm just telling you, they're wild eyed, they're out of control. their pedophile rings are getting busted everywhere, the fbis releasing all this classified info about giant pedophile rings, the finders. i mean, trump is definitely the real deal and that has got the system in in total panic. but trump needs to act decisively, uh, so that people know that he's in command with the indictments and with uh antitrust and all and all the election meddling against big tech, or he's going to keep emboldening them. he can't play games, uh with them like, oh, he thinks he's going to win at the election. they are going to make their move the next 13 months. they're already doing it. they're making their move on every front with hail mary's, and i totally agree with you. god bless you. how do you think we stop it? he's gone, great caller. uh, let's go to black patreon, alabama. thanks for calling, sir. hey, alex, um, just want to say: love you to death. it's an honor to talk to you. um, i think you're in the top 200- 250 most important people in american history- um, maybe top 2025 in terms of journalism, and uh, i love your products. i've been a listener since 2016 and, uh, i've sort of been a witness to your uh, your evolutionary your, your evolutionary process and the way you market your products. uh, from a couple years ago to you being a little bit more laid back and confident in your ability to, you know, raise uh funds for the operation. uh to now, hearing the urgency in your voice and the the sort of the franticness, and i just wanted to propose an idea: um for all your listeners: um, that we have a dollar drive, uh, this saturday, november 2nd. uh, you know, maybe you can post a link to to your subscribe star or a direct link to the donate button on your website, uh, and put it on the top of the info war site and the info war store site. uh, that all of your listeners, if they want to donate a dollar, uh, they can just go to those sites and click the link and everybody who's listening donate a dollar to alex and his staff november 2nd and, uh, you know, so he can keep a hundred percent of that. um, you know, we need to be able to refill the reservoir. i can hear the urgency in your voice, alex, and god only knows where we'd be at this point in history if you weren't here. i mean, uh, just just look at where we're at now, with you here. so you know, i can only imagine, uh, the things that would go unquestioned if we did. well, black patriot, don't hang up yet. but well, i mean, let me just say this, and i appreciate your kind words, you're absolutely right. the urgency, just all the politics, the enemy, the, the, the literal pedophile rings doing the stuff, the kids out in the open, the satanism, it's just. it's just. everything is urgent. but, yes, financial, wise money can defeat these globalists if you keep in force going. but i mean, let me come back and say something. this is really important. please don't hang up. black dot com, that's survivalist camps dot com. trust your family survival to survivalist camps dot com. hi, i'm dan pilla. i started fighting the irs over 40 years ago when they tried to seize my mother's house. i sued the irs in one. i beat the irs then and i've been beating them ever since. i wrote the book on tax debt settlement and i've helped thousands of people deal with tax problems they thought might never be solved. i can help you too. if you owe taxes you can't pay, don't wait another day. there's no such thing as a hopeless tax case. call 834, no tax, or go to my website, dan pilla dot com. that's dan pilla dot com- dan pilla dot com. heart disease is on the rise. clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected by you, but the symptoms are there. loss of energy, blood sugar spikes and drops, poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong here. how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives across america. my blood pressure has normalized. my diabetes has totally improved. everyone is telling me now how much healthier i look, and i'm telling everyone how much healthier i feel. i recommend heart and body extract to everyone. anybody over 40 in the north american continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardio vascular system healthy. order your two months supply today by calling 866 295 5305- that's 866 295 5305- or order online hbextractcom. heart and body extract- 866 295 5305 or hbextractcom. please listen to this information because it can save your life and it can save the life of others. there couldn't be more critical information for your physical body. god's more important when it comes to your soul, but this is most important when it comes to your body. if people didn't know that you put motor oil in a car's oil container to lube the engine, they might be able to be conned and think you put salt water in it, but it would seize up the engine pretty much instantly. well, if they put fluoride in the human body, it causes cancer, dumbs us down and destroys fertility. if you put the good halogen in the body- high quality iodine- it's like putting good, high quality motor oil in the car that's supposed to run on it. it's that simple. find out about the iodine conspiracy in m4storecom and find out what the globalist hope that you do not. research this information, ladies and gentlemen. whatever you do, research iodine deficiency- it's the key to everything- and then go and take advantage of the 60 off combo with our two different types of high quality iodine and bio tricillinium and m4storecom today. but, as you know, there's been a long term. look at, look see, and it looks like it's becoming very serious from what i'm hearing. investigate the investigators whether it's struck and page, whether it's flopper and whether it's homey, and all of these people because terrible things went on for our country. you just heard the president. the investigation is criminal, it's very serious and what is about to come out is going to shock the world, and info wars was there before it all happened telling you it was coming, if we just continue to expose these criminals and will be there while it unfolds and will be there, thanks to your support, when the enemy strikes back. this is an ongoing battle and your support is now more critical than ever. i leave it all up to the people that are working with the attorney general, who i don't know, but i will say this: i think you'll see things that nobody would have believed. this was the worst hoax in the history of our country. you're listening to the alex jones show. you keep your eyes on the road and your hands upon the wheel. the future is uncertain and the end is always near. yeah, on a roll, roll, roll. i'll keep your eyes on the road. you hand upon the wheel. all right, going back to black patreon- always their callers as fast as i can. yes, there's a sense of urgency. three years ago we were bringing in plenty of money. since then you've seen them try to destroy us and i know our most critical work ever is coming now. so it's simple. we've got amazing products that will make your life wonderful at info or storecom. and i'm so busy i don't have time to cut ads about all these products, but just here's one real quick. we are selling out of this for the year. before we order more, we probably want to order it for a few months in the next year because it's something people take. you know the fall and winter. immune wall, beta-glucan and olive leaf- absolutely both known to boost your immunity massively and really good for your body. that is a high quality bottle of that and a bottle of high quality colotl silver silver bullet for 1995. i can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that they sell the same stuff at Whole Foods for $25 all day long. we sell it for $19.95. normally it's high quality for topical or ingestion. everybody knows how great colotl silver is. this is the best brand out there, probably labeled by us immune walls. excellent, they go together: 1995 for both of them. immune wall will sell out by the week at the price. we're selling it in this combo because i want people to have it. i want people to have it during the winter and it just does so much good things. people look at 100 reviews. that is the immune wall colotl silver combo pack at infowarstorecom. and while you're there, get one of our great t-shirts that helps spread the word, get an infowarscom t-shirt or get a space force shirt or get a ball cap. but whatever you do, sign up for auto ship. you can cancel any time for free, so you don't forget every month, every two months or three months. you pick it from 15 days after nine months you can set it with one click when you want stuff delivered in how, and then it locks in the price, it lowers it by 10% and then it just comes to your door. obviously you're not going to sign up for auto ship or t-shirts or things like that, but things like turmeric, things like x2, x3, things like bio triscellinium, and if you don't like something after a while- which really never happens- then just cancel it. it's free, one click. your own account on there. i'm gonna stop plugging. but but yes, sir, we need to have some fundraisers, because 10 years ago i would have fundraisers- uh, black patriot, and we would raise a half million dollars at those, but then everybody just got really about the product. now i have a fund raiser we've been looking for, a hundred thousand dollars comes in and that just doesn't fund the operation, that extra money. so, yes, i don't want to belabor this anymore. uh, it's just that you've seen them trying to shut us down all we've been through. i'm not going to list at all we're. we will have some events soon along those lines. like i said, we should have the night before halloween event, you know, exposing the global. let's go 24 hours tomorrow. but we haven't ever been able to get a big enough crew, because of attrition and things, to ever even be able to do that a lot. or have folks do a saturday show. i've got two crew members on saturday. i tend to come in every saturday, uh, and i'm not complaining. i just need to spend time with my wife and children. it's, uh, my wife's birthday too, so she's like: you're not working this saturday, right? well, i, well, that's my birthday, you know. so there's a lot of things feed into this, but, believe me, wild horses can't drag me away, and you do hear the urgency of my voice on every front, uh, because we're- they're breathing down our throat. if you support us, it's no problem, but this is very serious and i think about what they're doing to children right now. i think what they're gonna do in the future and i get angry. i want to stay in the fight. i want to be stronger than ever and i'm in your hands, but i'm gonna stop plugging now. i want to get to all these calls that are uh, holding here. uh, black patriot. any other points? alex, i just want to say, uh, it's an honor to talk to you, uh, and to your listeners. if you listen to alex religiously, but you haven't bought any products and you don't support the operation, uh, there's something distrusting about that. like you, there's a distrust that you have for alex. so, you know, if this operation goes under, uh, you know, don't be out here acting like you. provided support. you know we need to pray for alex, we need to pray for his family and his staff and we need to be able to, you know, provide reserves. uh, you know, with capital, uh, we are in a civil war and this is an information operation and we need to be able to have alex on air for as long as we can. so, uh, you know, if you do buy the products and you would like to continue to order the products, then every now and again, maybe you ought to give a donation, because i love the products i've got. i've got the silver bullet. i've got x2, x3- i probably like x3 even better. i've got the selenium. i've got bodies- um. i've got the happy. the vaso beats, um, and it all works for me. i've got the vitamin d. i love it. i love it all, and i don't ever want to see a day where you go off of air or where i'm unable to order these products. so i'm going to give a donation. i order from the store a lot and every time i do, i give a donation because the products are great and they're heavily discounted. so i'm going to go ahead and give a donation. uh, you know it won't be as much as i would like for it to be, but i'm going to donate because i'm not going to stand on the sideline and watch you go under as they attack you. they're attacking the president, they're attacking our movement. i mean, you know, patriotism is here, it's alive. americanism is back and they're attacking our traditional values and they're saying we're the twisted ones and we're the races, and if you're just going to sit on the sideline as all this goes down, then don't be out here acting like you provided support. so, alex, i love you. i'm going to continue to pray for you and thank you, sir. well, god bless you. i appreciate that our whole country is in trouble and we've recognized this in trouble and we're trying to turn that around and to see the federal reserve try to crash the economy, to watch the left praise that, to watch them defend. i mean, i haven't even gotten to this because i want to go to your calls, but i've got npr audio, the articles on info wars dot com, where they sycophantically, for five minutes, praise alex bag daddy and where they talk about how bad trump is. i mean, it's just bizarre. it's totally bizarre and it shows who these people are. okay, uh, joshua in virginia. thanks for holding, joshua, you're on the air. hey, alex, i've been listening since 2016. i wanted to say: keep up the great work. thank you, um. so i just wanted the reason i'm calling. uh, i have. i've noticed i have a lot of friends in the military and i have a lot of friends in general who are kind of taking a liberal stance. they're. they're kind of like: well, we hate trump and we hate the left, but the the message i'm trying to get out to them is that right now, it's a fact, donald trump is the only thing that's keeping us from socialism, and what. what a lot of them are upset about is, uh, donald trump and gun control. so i was wondering if maybe you could kind of you know, how could we tell, how could we get the message out to donald trump that we're not okay about banning bump stocks, because that kind of creates a slippery slope. now, you're right, trump really hurt himself with the bump stock and then, and then, when he said we'll look at red flags, which he was advised to do, that was insane and that put a big chink in his armor, uh, and he's backed off that now and says they're not gonna do it, but that doesn't get the coverage. and so, uh, he got advised to, like during the crisis of those shootings, to go. you know, okay, maybe we'll look at that just to dissipate criticism. he should have gone after the gun grabbers, the gun confiscators. he should have said: this is mental illness, these guys are antifa. but he had bad advisors that told him to do that and, uh, he really screwed the pooch. uh, but, like you said, he's light years better than hillary. he's doing so many other good things, uh, and i totally and absolutely agree with you. stay there, josh. you want to get your take on what he should do? uh, but the big thing is urgency. he's got the neocons, he's got the chikons, got the democrats, hollywood, he's got all these people that want to sit on the fence because they don't like pressure, acting like they don't like trump. they use excuses like that to not supporting those folks. better stop it. right now the democrats are saying they're going to take all the guns all up, door to door. if you're trying to quit drinking or doing too many drugs, listen to me. you don't know me and we'll never meet. i had a problem like you once. i drank and used to party a little too much till it got out of control and almost ruined my life. i realized i needed help to fix my problem before it totally destroyed me. if you've tried to fix your drinking and drug problem- and you know you can't do it alone- you need to call the national treatment advisors. they'll immerse you into a 30-day program to replace your old habits with new habits and totally change your life. and if you have ppo, private health insurance, the entire program may be covered. fix your problem right now, before it gets any worse. get clean. call now and learn more. 800 506 6740, 800 506 6740, that's 800 506 6740. here are the facts. iodine raises iq and, across the board, makes you more healthy. in thousands of top studies, including the american medical journal, every type of fluoride lowers iq, massively increases cancer and destroys fertility. that's the facts. learn about the iodine conspiracy and then, once you've learned about it, protect yourself and your family. the reason i'm so hot on this is the globalist. put the fluoride in the water while making sure we don't get the iodine in china. they put the iodine in the water and ban the fluoride because they've already got their people under their control. the globalists are targeting us here. please go to info or storecom. experience iodine and bio tricillinium that goes with it together and then, once you see the great results, warn others. this is the achilles hill of the globalist. it's a win-win situation. the only way you lose is not taking action. take action now again. i'm not talking down to the info wars audience, but i've been banging my head against a wall for a long time on this, and i'm talking about fluoride and i'm talking about iodine. now, if you have a boat, a motorboat- let's say an old glass tron boat- and you want to take it on the lake, you've got to have a lake to put it in. if you're a human being, you've got to have oxygen to live. okay, it's the same thing. well, ladies and gentlemen, the bad halogen is fluoride. that's why in every western nation, they put it in the water. they're going to teach us christians: lay down and die the chai comms. don't put it in the water. they'd execute you get at that. they put iodine in the water because it's the good halogen and increases fertility and lifespan and intelligence and everything else. so, again, learn about the iodine conspiracy at info or storecom- we have all the documents and articles linked- and then get good iodine for yourself, because the globalists are fighting to make sure you don't again get iodine at info or storecom. hello here. my name is Bethelman, i work for my father, lucifer, and he doesn't like the fact that god gave you all families and children. and so we want to tell you something right now. christian countries, we took control of you over a hundred years ago we've been spiking your water with fluoride and lower your fertility and it hurts you and it's worked so well. but now, because of liability and because of people warning inside the government, what's happening? the journal of american medical association and others are admitting what we've done and it makes me so angry. so, whatever you do, just stay in that haze and drink fluoride and give it to your children, and don't visit info or storecom and learn about the iodine conspiracy and get 60 off on x2 and x3 together with bio-persilidium from the mustard seed. submit to us info or storecom. you're listening to the alex jones show. you are listening to an infowarscom front line report. if you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance. we are back, live broadcasting worldwide. i'm your host, alex jones. we're taking your phone calls right now and all hell's breaking loose. and now we know all the fake whistleblowers are just a bunch of anti-trump insiders lying, saying they heard things that never happened. big surprise. we know they're gonna do more of it. it's gonna get a lot worse. the way i've seen them doctor stuff about myself in the nose where you think you know they lie, but when they do entire compendiums, i mean here's an example: there's a big article out today saying that i agreed to speak at stanford college and that i then canceled it. and they write the article like it's a true story and they know 90 of people. only look at the headlines at the bottom. they say it's satire. and i went and looked it up. turns out that school paper doesn't do satire. and people are going: what is this fake news? what is this? but it's like that stuff every day. and so it's one thing to deal with lies, but to deal with completely fabricated things they take your life over having to respond to the disinformation and then you don't even know what's true anymore because there's so much lying. so when a president who's done a really good job doing what he said he'd do overall says they killed al-Baghdadi, nobody believes it because the enemies of the president are such liars. but trump would never go do something like that and say it was fake, because that's not how he operates a but b. he knows the people around him can't be trusted. if it was a pr thing to help us get out of that war and make us feel good, he can't trust them. to pull something off like that. that's not his style. i wouldn't do it. that's why they really fear info wars getting to the president. they admit this in the news. internal documents came out. the general kelly said: do not let him see alex jones or his articles or paul watson. keep it away. because the president already knew what i was saying was true. he clicks, were sympatica, a lot alike, and trump's a lot like just average americans, doesn't have an elitist attitude, he's got a masculine attitude, a confident attitude, a manly attitude, a straight shooting attitude. so i don't think trump would stage that. but i mean i see it all over the news saying it's fake with no evidence. but that's good, because we shouldn't believe anything, not from trump but from these people. see, they can't have their cake and eat it too. mainstream media is a joke and they know they are. but all they can do now is just disrupt with incredible lies and take our time up responding to them. so more and more i'm just not responding to the stuff. every i mean literally. i get google alerts and there's 20, 30, 40, 50 articles a day. sometimes it's syndicated in thousands of publications. you know a big lie they'll put everywhere. so just remember that that they went and said that i lost a sandy hook lawsuit for a book called nobody died at sandy hook, that i wasn't in, that i didn't read, that i'm not a part of in the associated press and wall street journal and they use that to sure up g2 credit rating agency in boston because they know we're getting ready to sue to put in the news in my credit that i lost a major judgment, the lawsuit and none of it's true, so that they can hurt my corporate credit rating in case i try to go borrow money and so they can take our merchant accounts away and take our good uh money transfer right away for credit card processing, which they did. that cost us half a million dollars a year, basically tripled the amount. i mean, these people are evil, ladies and gentlemen. and now they're doing that to the nra. you see, it's alex jones last year, now it's the nra. these people are coming for everything and a lot of folks, even the nra, kind of halfway rolled over and said we don't want to be political now, we don't want to be so close to trump defending him. you saw all those internal fights there. the global sample traded the nra. all hell broke loose. i can't tell you the details of it, i was foreign to secrecy, but the nra is still a good organization. but all their big political stuff- that was hardcore. that was all terminated in a big internal fight inside of it because they're using spies to go into organizations. it's actual espionage. okay, it's bad. first they offer people that know me money. then they start digging into them and start threatening them and, by the grace of god, only a few people have lied about me. i'm pretty proud of the folks i've been around over the years, but you talk about Judas Iscariot folks. i mean these people, these people are pure evil. okay, pure, not not part evil. they love it all. right, i'm gonna shut up joshua in virginia. you're right trump coming out and saying, yeah, we'll look at red flags, that's his tactic- to try to take away from the gun grabbers, and then so they'll come out and want everything and say let's ban all the guns. that's his tactic. but i said i didn't like that tactic because if people take him very literally, uh, and i think it hurt trump, how does he really? how does he rehabilitate that? so, uh, what i would do- definitely not before the election, under the assumption trump takes 2020- what i would do is i would actually go the opposite route, going further: loosen gun laws. now, that might sound a little bit crazy, but listen, no, no, that's what texas did. that's what texas has done, absolutely. yeah, they look at the mexican drug cartel: they've got 50 cal machine guns, they've got grenade launchers. look at, uh, chicago, they've got, they've got rocket launchers and machine guns down there. absolutely. so, at this point time, all that's going to do is that's going to arm the good guys with the right materials that they would need in case we, you know, we have something like the drug and that gets us going in the right direction. uh of uh, getting rid of all the hoaxes and not putting up with the gun control issues. the democrat, every city they run is, like you know, as bad a crime rate as mexico. absolutely, we should get on the offense, not be on the defense. absolutely. what else should president trump do? i mean i agree he should call for national uh reciprocation, national concealed carry um, and i mean i think that's the way to go because, as you said, mexico has a total prohibition on civilian ownership of firearms. they have the highest crime rate in the world. well then, maybe, maybe he shouldn't go on the offense. after the election, maybe he should go on it now. i mean, he's all he already is. he's already going after a crooked democrats trying to expose them. i think now's the time to go on offense and show his support base right exactly where he stands. the same reason he got. well, i totally agree with you. i've been saying trump should come out and say: these people are antifa. they covered it up, they're mentally ill. their devil worshipers keep doing this. the answer is guns to stop these type of scumbags. uh, you know the, the idiot in florida that killed all those people, the, the fbi, had been called three times, the police 44 times. he was called the school shooter. he went around saying he's gonna kill people. he was expelled from school when it happened. my gosh, i mean that cruise guy was a freaking demon. and but notice, they had liberal law in florida and in broward county they were enforcing it- where if you had a name that wasn't a a anglo-saxon, uh surname, he had the name cruise. even though he was white, he was adopted by his panics. both his parents have recently died. he was a white kid that he committed all these crimes but he couldn't go to jail because they passed laws to try to rehabilitate some minorities. don't go to jail. he literally had to get out of jail free card. yeah, it's sick and i and i see all the time: uh, you know, in democratic, you know poor income areas, they're shooting zero all the time. no one has anything to say about that, not a thing. well, members, cnn is caught on tape by veritas saying: we don't want to make it big, as those are democrat areas. we only do it in republican areas. we only hype it up, right, right, because if there's 2 000 killed a year in chicago, on average, 95 percent of them black, black on black, they don't want to humanize that because 2 000 dead there. well, how's that? look, with 20 something dead at walmart. see, that blessed you. great points. i absolutely properties to go on the offense, offense, offense. major misstep with that tactic. i just explained trups tactic. people got pissed at me. i don't agree with it. look right back. stay with us. info wars presents, alex jones. in august of 2019, jamma, or the journal of the american medical association the most prestigious, came out and said: oh my gosh, just a little bit of fluoride in the water causes lowered icu's, massive infertility and a lot of babies dying the womb, and it causes cancer. that was just one of thousands of studies admitting this. you know it's illegal to have even one part per billion in the water in places like california unless it's part of adding fluoride. and then they have a waiver and can add thousands of deadly chemicals to your water because the liberals love you and they want to sexualize your children. so, whatever you do, drink lots of fluoride and don't get the thing that counters an iodine at infowarstorecom. drink fluoride and die. drink fluoride, dirty americans and roll over. do not visit infowarstorecom and get high poly iodine. counter it no, roll over and die dirty americans. info warscom forward slash show. we have strong disagreement on policy grounds and i hope there's diversity in policy here. i don't care what your views are. i hope you articulate them and defend them and listen and debate them. that's important. but we have something in common. we have a set of values that are at the core of this country that hold this place together. clinton, deep state bag man comey thinks it's funny that he was the leaker and that he lied to congress in the world. he thinks committing crimes are funny and he thinks if he acts confident he won't get indicted. but word is the criminal investigation is honing in on him. from my new home in new zealand i will. oh, and now suddenly he's talking about moving to new zealand. not so fast, criminal. we're going to bring you to justice and we're going to bring hillary to justice as well, because if we don't, you criminals will continue to strike back at your enemy. but the american people know how much you hate us and we're fighting back at info wars, dot com, news wars dot com and band off video. hey, steve, how you doing? hey, alex, oh my god, long time listener, first time caller. look, in january 2016 i went in the hospital. i went to va hospital out here in boise and i was in until june and i kept hearing dr group and all you guys talking about living defense. let me tell you something, man. i had an internal digestive problem and i suffered with it for about five or six years and the doctors- they tried every test. nobody could figure out what it is. and then, every day, when i kept hearing you and dr group and those commercials, i said: you know what i'm gonna get me? some of that freaking living defense. now, i wasn't supposed to have any nutritionals because they don't want you to have it, but i ordered it, had it shipped to me. i got it. i hid it from the nurses. i started taking it. man, that stuff changed my life. it saved my life. if there's any veteran out there, i don't give you travel, though anybody's traveled overseas. you absolutely owe it to yourself to get two bottles of that living defense. it's true, folks, we don't sell anything unless it's the highest quality, and living defense is over the top good. please listen to this information because it can save your life and it can save the life of others. there couldn't be more critical information for your physical body. god's more important when it comes to your soul, but this is most important when it comes to your body. if people didn't know that you put motor oil in a car's oil container to live the engine, they might be able to be conned and think you put salt water in it, but it would seize up the engine pretty much instantly. well, if they put fluoride in the human body, it causes cancer, dumps us down and destroys fertility. if you put the good halogen in the body- high quality iodine- it's like putting good, high quality motor oil in the car that's supposed to run on it. it's that simple. find out about the iodine conspiracy at m4storecom and find out what the globalists hope that you do not. research this information, ladies and gentlemen. whatever you do, research iodine deficiency, it's the key to everything. and then go and take advantage of the 60 off combo with our two different types of high quality iodine and biotrystallinium and m4storecom. today you're listening to the alex jones show. well, you were sleeping. they came and took it all away. all right, i've got famous grant i? uh. globalist attorney norm paddice here's to deal with us. it's a famous criminal lawyer, first woman lawyer, bunch of the stuff, and he's down here in austin visiting with us. i wanted to get him into this about the massive attack on free speech and more. we're also gonna have will johnson joining us with the incredible footage he got last night here in austin where a big fat man wearing a red wig basically tried to disrupt a group of small children and their parents and the police had to arrest him. he just keeps screaming: i'm transgendered, you know. basically i'm god. submit to me, give me access to your children. bleh. it's up on news wars dot com. will johnson attends rally against radical sexhead and we're gonna be getting to that as well. but i want to just boom, boom, boom through these callers: jill, eric, johnny john, andrea x, dalis, jake brian and others. i'm going to get to all of you right now. uh, next up, who should we go to here first? uh, let's go to andre in canada. thanks for calling her on the air. welcome, hi, alex andrea from montreal. kebek andrea, thank you, sorry, i read the name wrong. that's okay. um, i just wanted to thank you because i was wondering about you the other day and you passed through my mind and so i got onto info wars and. um, i used to be backslid, but because of the faith that you have, it just brought me right back to the board, so i wanted to thank you very much. well, thank you. listen, the churches are designed to turn you off from god. they're the biggest concentration of evil you're going to find on average, and i'm just i'm just saying all we got to do is, like christ said, call out to god. god is all about free will, and then god will touch us. and it's just the power and, and, and and. even their cultists will tell you the name, jesus, is what all these things flee from, and that's why they're trying to eradicate it. it's why they're persecuting it and look at the manifestation of evil openly coming out to the children. this is textbook, biblical, i know, and it's disgusting and it's giving me a new sound fire. of course i'm gonna, i'm going to strengthen myself before i start speaking out and doing what i can down here in canada. but, uh, thank you very much. well, thank you, no, please, are you kidding? uh, i'm a very humble person, just like you, and i've done wicked things and i'm not. the thing is, we love god and we don't want to be part of this, this energy force that is trying to take over, and it's energetic. we just have to decide spiritually which side we're going to go with. you cannot be in the middle. you have to choose a side. yes, absolutely, and i felt the calling to come, come back to god. and well, that's wonderful news and, um, it's all because of you. so, thank you so much. well, please, it's not because of me, it's because the holy spirit- no, but you know, you, your, your manliness and your fortitude- um helped a lot and i- i was in contact with you and listening to you, like 18 years ago, and um, after that, there was a lot that went on in my life that caused me to backslide, as you said, the church and everything. but, um, i didn't lose my faith, it was just you lost your faith in the corrupt system. oh yeah, most these churches are just filled with evil. that's because the devil knows to get control of that. absolutely. because i was, uh, indefinitely studying the bible and i went to college and i got right up to the master's degree and i was seeing so much that was being twisted and put towards the pastor or other people's own interest and i just couldn't abide by it so i had to leave. well, i'll tell you what's happening is. i've i believe in god, i've had spiritual experiences, but it's the world, it's what's happening. the microchips are being announced for the brain, the attack on the children, the world government's all being announced, and as the spirit of evil comes in, it's Newtonian physics and god designed this. for every action there's an opposite and equal reaction. well, as evil comes in the world, god's spirits coming in as well, and so, energetically, a lot of people fall away because energetically they weren't picking up on it. now, you cannot miss it. i mean, now it's just the psychic energy just is just explosive right now. everybody can feel it, everybody can see it and that's why people that are serving the dark side are just becoming animated with wickedness. because it's powerful, it's real, it's, it's coming into the world right now. it absolutely is. but i'm so pleased that the lord called me back to him. absolutely, because we can't control the psychic powers we all have. the only the holy spirit can be asked in, and then then god is in control. man is fallen. we cannot control this level of power, and that's all it means. to be fallen is that we have not gotten anywhere near the level of being able to even imagine how advanced we already are. we are incredible, but we are babies. we're like babies with any matter- weapons or something, i mean, we can do anything. look what we've already built, and we're babies. we're not even out of the crib right now. look at what we built. do you have any idea how powerful you are? sorry, go ahead and finish up. no, no, i do. i do. um, i do understand how powerful we are because i've had many um visions when i was before, and then they started to pour in again, and that's because the evil's making us move. god bless you. i can talk to you for hours. i gotta get to everybody. please call again. look, everybody's feeling it. it's here. folks, let me tell you: the evil is scared. evil feels god. that's why evil wants to get god out of the world. because evil feels that power and and and. it's like whoa, it's pretty awesome. well, if you openly serve evil, it's frightening, and so they want to declare they have power over god by doing the worst things they can, hurting children as just a total act of self-destruction to them, to their own selves. the devil wants to make sure they're destroyed. so the devil promises them: if you go out and make it all about yourself and hurt innocent people, you will be given power. and you look at these people. they look like dead zombies. they're not being given power. that's the big con of this thing. no one in their right mind would serve satan. i'm preaching. i'm sorry, i'm gonna go to your calls. uh jill in georgia. thanks for holding it on the air. hello, alex, welcome. i've been a long time listeners since- well, not long time- since 2015. enjoy your antics every day, and shows like this are kind of hard to deal with, especially when you talk about the children and the: the d-class on the finders, and then the, the drag queen story time and all this satanic stuff in our face, in our faith, now this morning, and i know it's hard, hey, i know how you feel. everybody else feels like it and that's what we're going to work towards: getting this fixed. but i know it enrages you, doesn't it? that's righteous anger and i'm sorry. you think i don't want to cover it either. believe me, i don't want this going on either. but you know what they're doing it to our kids. so we got to cover it. you agree with me, right, what you? you had a call to us. you said we have to do something, or it's on us. what can we do? you know it's up to god to to to give you discernment in your area. and i just think, if you just go, and you go organize reading the stories to kids so you can just kind of watch what's going on at the library, or maybe you go to church and teach sunday school and while the little corrupt preacher is doing his thing, you're, you're, you're, you're talking to the kids. do what the left does, but do it from a godly perspective. or maybe you just go. you know, you see, a veteran just died and we'll just randomly go to the cemetery when the family's having the thing, and just talk to them. or have a barbecue and talk to your neighbors, or go speak at the city council against gun control, or you know, just, just, just, you never know. just go out and just ask god what you should do. maybe get in a car or go to dc- uh, you're in. uh, you know georgia flight to dc. pick your congressman or senator or lady and then go in and talk to him. you know you, i'm telling you, once you just step out and ask god to guide you, what it's? it's? it's, it's like the devil has his fake magic. well, magic just is the crazy way the universe works. you'll see more doors open and more. i've never gone out with a camera on a mission where wild stuff didn't happen and i'm always just guided, without even thinking about it, right to whatever i need to catch. i mean, literally, i've learned how to like no one could find where sundar pachai was, no one could find where, uh, jack dorsi was, and everybody was running this way, around, that way, and i'm literally with all these you know vets that are with me, or good guys, and they're like: let's follow our nose, he's gonna come out that way, let's go this way. now he's going that way and boom, we caught him and it's like it's, it's, it's. you know they make stupid movies about, like star wars and the force and all that, but really it's just the spirit, and so if you just pray to god and ask what you're supposed to do, you don't have to do all of it, but together we'll defeat these people. that makes sense. everybody, everybody, do their their part, absolutely. then i've learned now- and i mean it's crazy though- that if i literally just clear my mind, like when i'm out in the field or doing something, i mean i can just know what the enemy is going to do before they do it. it's crazy, but that's that's the spirit, because he was in us, is bigger than you who's in the world. that makes sense. yes, indeed, one more thing: when you were talking about you needed money, that money bomb you did. i guess it was a few months back. it was awesome. i could see how much people were given, and i think people were excited to give. they could see how much it was increasing, but i never saw a story about how much you know, you were able to raise. well, we call it a money bomb. we did a setting sold like seven hundred thousand dollars for the product but we discounted so much we made like three hundred thousand dollars, which sounds like a lot, just and all the stuff. we're just the bandwidth. here's the deal. we launched our own bandwidth and our own audio and video streams exclusively because we're banned everywhere and we've got five, ten times the traffic is exponentially growing at bandot video. but then i literally, and we've gone out and found some of the cheapest bandwidth, but imagine we're paying millions and millions and millions just on ban, with millions on it. so there's just. we have to have security now. uh, you know here at the office because i'm not going to get into why, but obviously there's a lot of new expenses. but it's okay, we're going to win together. thank you and god bless you, jill. it is now an admitted fact: fluoride out of the water has caused tens of millions of americans to be brain damaged and to have infertility and low IQs. and it doesn't matter if the journal of american medical association comes out and says it's terrible. still, the city's put in the water because the ruling globalists want you and your family poisoned and stupid, and they sure don't want you to know about the good allergen, iodine, that absolutely increases IQ and fertility and makes life so wonderful and opens up your consciousness, your mind, everything, thank god. thank god, i discovered this eight years ago. of course, the enemy knows all about it and they hope you don't discover it. they hope you just roll over and die. so, whatever you do, don't visit info or storecom and get 60 off right now on the wake up the world to the iodine conspiracy combo: 60 off with x2 and x3 together with your bottle of biotrystallineum. whatever you do, don't go to info or storecom. just give up america, give up christians. drink your fluoride and die. give into satan, give him again. i'm not talking down to the info wars audience, but i've been banging my head against a wall for a long time on this and i'm talking about fluoride and i'm talking about iodine. now, if you have a boat, a motorboat, let's say an old glasstron boat- and you want to take it on the lake, you've got to have a lake to put it in. if you're a human being, you've got to have oxygen to live. okay, it's the same thing. well, ladies and gentlemen, the bad halogen is fluoride. that's why in every western nation, they put it in the water. they're going to teach us christians: lay down and die the chi-coms. don't put it in the water. they'd execute you if you did that. they put iodine in the water because it's the good halogen and increases fertility and lifespan and intelligence and everything else. so, again, learn about the iodine conspiracy at infowarstorecom- we have all the documents and articles linked- and then get good iodine for yourself, because the globalists are fighting to make sure you don't again get iodine at infowarstorecom. you're listening to the alex jones show from the front lines of the information war. it's alex jones. i didn't notice. we had a caller in peru. you know, when you call in from overseas, i tend to go to you first, but i i didn't look at the number, how long you've been holding, so not where you're calling from. uh, so i apologize to john, who knows how much he's been holding for an hour. john in peru, where the us government for 30 years injected over 100 000 people with live syphilis. but we should trust him down to take the shots. uh, john in peru, go ahead, sir. hi, alex, thank you so much. um, my name is john marshall. i'm the uh, great, great, great grandson of the chief justice of the supreme court. so, um, i called you and i've got some fireworks. i truly believe this will be the most powerful call you've heard all year. well, lay it on me, i'm all ears. okay, um, i've got three topics i'd like to discuss: how to increase your product sales by at least 100, how to get seen by 10 to 20 000 liberals a day and, number three, how to beat the censorship. so i'm just going to start off with a quick one. um, i noticed x2 is your number one selling product and, um, and you've got a great marketing strategy. you sell products that solve a problem. well, there's one problem that you haven't um attacked yet, and that is tumors. there's a, there's a site you should check out on um. it's just do a google search: 31 powerful herbs and supplements for treating and preventing cancer, naturally. well, sir, here's how this works. um, um, obviously, there are a lot of things that are known to help people not get cancer, but then if you say, if someone takes this, it'll stop it, and then somebody dies, you've contributed to their death and they come and arrest you for that. i know they're suppressing how powerful turmeric is, uh, and things like that. so we just say, hey, tumor is really good for anti-inflammatory. hey, fish roll is really good for your heart. i mean, my gosh, it's psychoactive for me. i mean, i took like three big juicy fish rolls last night and just had, like you know, better than a trip on acid or something. i mean, you know, joke around there, but the the system is scared of what is in mother nature and it doesn't want people to know. i mean, my daughter came to me, my 11 year old, yesterday, and she said, dad, we're, we're in chemistry class and uh, we're in science class and they had a study- iodine on the periodic table. and look my, it's a tablet. but the textbook says the number one cause of, uh, you know, people having low IQs- and the exact quote was it was, uh, intellectual disabilities- is lack of iodine and two billion people on earth have lower IQs, are mentally retarded currently from lack of iodine. she said, dad, that's exactly what you say. but i've seen the news. my daughter's seen the news saying i'm a cook and that iodine's not good or whatever. she was totally blown away that her textbook was still teaching science and the number one thing on the earth is iodine deficiency. of course, i sell something that you need. that's great. that also is amazing, and we sell the best stuff that's out there- x2 and x3 or apples and oranges, but they're both excellent. uh and so, yeah, absolutely. they keep saying: oh, cancer's way up because of bad genes. yeah, people have genes where if you don't have something, you've got to have, that it's essential. then it will trigger and your body will mutate. the cells will mutate to operate on fluoride and bromide and bromine and the cells will mutate and your liver will mutate and you will die because your cells will mutate. so they keep living a little bit longer on what they've got and the system knows that. they know that your body will move over to whatever it has to to keep operating and it will mutate at the cellular level. but they won't tell people why cancer's off the chart. they won't tell women why it's all happening. they give you glyphosate and they give you fluoride to grow the tumors and then they take the iodine away to make sure your body absorbs it. so you die. so you die. yes, john, they're evil, aren't they right? well, hold on, hold on, i got more. pat is coming here, but i'm gonna go back to your call and we'll get to these other ones: x and dallas. jake, brian, eric, we'll get to all of your wild cards. it's gonna be wild. we're coming back on the other side, good lord. ladies and gentlemen, you notice most of the products. we don't even say what they do. that's because i've got the fda breathing down my neck at every other damn agency on the planet. i've got the left running around thinking i don't pay taxes and they're gonna get me on that. when you think i'm a moron, they'll break your legs. you don't pay those phony taxes. i am literally a boy scout. we'll be right back. folks ask me, alex, why do you have two different types of iodine? well, that's because different types of physiology, different types of metabolic systems and people will like different formulas. it's just that simple. x3 is the deep earth crystal iodine and two other types because some people need all three types to absorb others, like the pure atomic iodine. get both. they're both great for you. whichever one you like, use that and give the other to family or friends. bottom line iodine is essential. that's why i harp on it. the globalist want you to be deficient in it for a lot of reasons. lower iq makes you sluggish. you don't live as long. it's simple. get your high quality iodine at infowarstorecom and help fund the info war infowarstorecom. we've got a huge sale running right now, but it's about the end. it's the iodine challenge: both types of iodine with selenium for 60 off together. from the front lines of the information war, it's alex jones. thank you, jonathan. um, well, i have been directly involved in this battle professionally for over a year. one black transgender woman fatally shot today. where black transgender woman was fatally shot in princestore county. where the god of 21 black transgender women with fatally shot in cleveland. so People, hey, Hey, What am I doing? that is going Black, trans black, trans black, Black, trans black, trans, black, trans, Black, trans, black, trans black, trans Black, trans black. SORRY event with a fat man with a red wig on Screaming at women and children and men who do not want this guy talking to their children at school. You see, if you try to creep around kids at the park, you get arrested, but not if you come to the school and demand equal rights And then read off a list of black men Who were transvestite prostitutes, shot and killed in places like Chicago by other black men, And then you blame a bunch of elementary students that you don't have access to, to quote: groom them. Get that, Rob, do compilation ready from earlier today. I'm gonna play that for norm pass. right now. You go to turn norms. my con change everything. they want to destroy Everything that is good. So this is where we are right now. You have these people that are completely Nasty. you see this demonic demon. He can't even control himself. He has to keep walking around. look at him. Look at him. Jesus loves everybody. She does. Jesus doesn't want people like this to be turned over to a reprobate mind. He doesn't want them to be lost, doesn't want them to be disgusting, doesn't want to turn over to themselves, over to Perverted actions. We cannot allow these demons to win. It's not gonna end, It's only gonna get worse. My name is will Johnson, firepower newscom. Will Johnson's coming in towards the other hour house his own show seven o'clock central With the great Tom Pappert of national calm. Okay now, norm Pat is is a leading criminal defense divorce lawyer, but mainly number first amendment. I've probably seen him all over the news for years With big cases. He does be like F Lee Bailey- You name it, and he was here. He flew in to talk about some other things were up to in our ongoing battles with the deep state to stay on air. But this morning I said what do you want to come on about? And I figured to be all these attacks on the first amendment, the rest of you as well. Let's talk about Cheshire home invasion killer Who's a transgender, and the mother got killed, the two little girls. so I guess Let's do a document cam shot of this young lady here. What a man with a beard. So this is the type of stuff going on. We've got new video out Out of control: drag queen flashes crotch the kids at library story in Minnesota, And we also have photos that stations have complained about and listen stations. I've been on air 25 years and we are not a show That shows bad things. but I Remember being about 10 years old watching PBS showing documentaries and it showed naked kids running down the street with napalm, Burned their skin off. now how, at 7 o'clock at night at the dinner time hour, They showing kids with napalm in a Walter Cronkite show, those kids naked with their skin burned off, Little boys and little girls. now Why could they show that? and it wasn't x-rated because it was Documentary and later I learned about that being in the media. So I don't show this with pleasure, in fact, some of it I'm. It's so horrible that I'm not gonna show it. We've got stuff even worse than we've showed today of men With large genitalia and people say, what's the point? It's large, I mean it's hanging out. Okay, Okay, okay, with glitter on it, hugging and kissing little kids at public events. The mothers bring them to it like you bring your kid to a spider and it's all just sick Moonshowsen by proxy Stockholm syndrome, whatever you want to call it. and the stations weren't a lot of TV stations and cable. They call me: go listen. This happens every time it's relations. phones ring and they go listen. Can you not show that? We're getting a lot of complaints from the community here? They're doing it in the elementary schools without asking parents in many cases. I've shown the newscast, I've been Drag Queens go to Denver Elementary without parental consent and the kids sit on their laps. Yes, I know, men dressed like women spreading their legs in front of kids is bad. We've learned it out. The little kids are looking at their genitalia. So you think you are pissed off. You're supposed to get pissed seeing that. You're supposed to Not want to see it because it's not happening. and as soon as it's not happening, I won't show it, Respectfully, to the stations. What the hell do you want me to do? I've got four children, three of them daughters, one of them's two and a half. You know what I want to do when I see stuff like that. You know what I want to do with an ice pick, don't you? But we're gonna beat them politically. Norm Pattis, It's good to have you here. What do you think of this crap? I'm stunned by it. I mean, I guess I haven't been paying much attention to the news. I was looking at some of these clips in my jaw dropped As it did when I saw the Cheshire home invasion piece. Steven Hayes was convicted for the rape, murder and homicide And arson death of a mother and two children. They beat the father, not quite to death. He was sentenced to death. Connecticut revoked the death penalty. He's been on death row or death row or doing life since 2007. at one point He converted to orthodox Judaism and now he wants to convert to being a woman and I've got a pay for this. I mean, at what point do we say: you know what you were born is what you are? Look at all the discussions about the gender war and the trans phenomena raise. Well, let's, let's humanize Who these people where he killed. I mean, it's all folks with them. Well, dr Pettit was a popular physician. his wife, The- I don't know a whole lot about her- He had two daughters, 11 and I believe, 17, and Mr Hayes and mr Commissar's f-commerce commerce are Jebsky Targeted them. They- they saw the Mercedes that Jennifer drove and they. the next night They went to the home. They held people hostage. They took her to the bank to take $15,000 out. then they set the house on fire after raping the wife and daughters. Mr A doctor, dr Pettit was asleep on the back porch. They beat him to death with a, beat him half to death with a baseball bat. He stumbled out of the house. So it was this horrible a crime as has occurred in Connecticut in my lifetime, And there was really no doubt about the defendants. Well, I mean, why don't we let? why don't we have taxpayer funded execution for him Instead of, you know, paying to cut his way bows off? Well, I'm not a fan of the death penalty. I was relieved to see it repealed But, candidly, the notion that this guy serving six life terms plus 130 years needs to have his gender changed at taxpayer Expense makes me wonder when we've got people out there that aren't getting the nest. well, It's like Elizabeth Warren, exactly like Elizabeth Warren and Bernie. They want to pay for criminals To have their genitals cut off. what type of upside-down sicko people go: Oh, that's just a fringe thing. No, that's the Democrat religion now. Well, let's get philosophic about it. Let's talk about the identity wars going on. We say that race and gender are social contracts, constructs. They're not really real. people can be what they want to be. This is what comes of taking that thinking too far. We, you are what you were born to be and if you want to be feminine as a man, be feminine as a man. But the notion that you've got to get it cut off, reassigned, changed around It, didn't make any sense to me, and, what's more, we're doing it with kids. I read a fascinating book that I talked about last time I was on- I believe was last week on Skype, by a guy named Murray out of Britain, About the our confusion about identity. We say that identity isn't real, Um, but yet, or that it's socially constructed, and we let little kids six and seven years old decide that they want to get their Gender reassigned and physicians are willing to do this. What happens when they wake up at 12 and decide they want to go back? Well, it's total. It's total abuse. It's total abuse and that's why they drug them all up too, And most of them commit suicide. It's unbelievable phone calls coming up. Norm Pattis here will Johnson went down and face these crazies. Hi, I'm Dan Pilla. I started fighting the IRS over 40 years ago when they tried to seize my mother's house. I sued the IRS in one. I beat the IRS then and I've been beating them ever since. I wrote the book on tax debt settlement And I've helped thousands of people deal with tax problems They thought might never be solved. I can help you too. If you owe taxes you can't pay, Don't wait another day. There's no such thing as a hopeless tax case. call 800 34, no tax, or go to my website, danpillacom. That's Dan Pillacom. Dan Pillacom. The United States of Empire is a book that claims the United States is the Empire of the world. George Washington had warned us against foreign wars. The United States of Empire shows that World Wars one and two left England broken its former colony. The US had to save the Empire. was there ever a vote. Who do we fight for? the deep state began with World War one- the United States of Empire by James Dunn, available at Amazon books. one of the most frequently asked questions we get in customer services: What is the real red pill and what is the real red pill plus? Well, real red pill is a vitamin, mineral, multivitamin high quality with preglonone. Real red pill plus is the same thing, with a little bit of clean added energy on top of it as well. That kicks in in 30 minutes, but the preglonone kicks in in about a week or so. Folks, look into preglonone for yourself. Look into high-end sources of it, like real red pill and real red pill plus, and then you'll definitely want to try it out And see the effects you get within about seven days to two weeks generally. but believe me, It's a missing link. You need to find out about it. as we age, preglonone levels go down. all of our hormones in our body are manufactured by the body using Preglonone. you need to learn about preglonone And then you need to get the real red pill or the real red pill plus now 50% off at info wars life comm. the real red pill plus. It is now an admitted fact. Fluoride added to the water has caused tens of millions of Americans to be brain-damaged and to have infertility and low IQs. And it doesn't matter if the Journal of American Medical Association comes out and says it's terrible. Still the city's put it in the water because the ruling globalists want you and your family poisoned and stupid And they sure don't want you to know about the good allergen, iodine, that absolutely increases IQ and fertility and makes life so Wonderful and opens up your consciousness, your mind, everything, Thank God. Thank God I discovered this eight years ago. of course, the enemy knows all about it and they hope you don't discover it. They hope you just roll over and die. So, whatever you do, don't visit info or storecom and get 60% off right now on the wake up the world to the iodine conspiracy Combo: 60% off with x2 and x3, together with your bottle of bio truce selenium. Whatever you do, don't go to info or storecom. Just give up America, Give up Christians. drink your fluoride and die. Satan give him. but as you know, there's been a long term. Look at, look see and it looks like it's becoming very serious from what I'm hearing. Investigate the investigators Whether it's struck and paid, Whether it's flopper and whether it's homey, and all of these people, Because terrible things went on for our country. You just heard the president. the investigation is criminal, It's very serious and what is about to come out is going to shock the world and Info wars was there before it all happened, telling you it was coming, if we just continue to expose these criminals And we'll be there while it unfolds, and we'll be there, thanks to your support, when the enemy strikes back. This is an ongoing battle and your support is now more critical than ever. I leave it all up to the people that are working with the attorney general, who I don't know, But I will say this: I think you'll see things that nobody would have believed. this was the worst hoax in the history of our country. You're listening to the Alex Jones show Seeding as the globalists didn't want it to. We're going your phone calls here right now with Norm Pattis. We're getting the first amendment and more with him in the next segment. Major polls out: more than half of American students want wearing a Halloween costume is to be punished, many by jail time. Big studies out: 60% millennials want jail time for anything that's politically correct, incorrect. That's coming up Just briefly. We had one caller Sunday calling and go. It's incredible. I was in the V8 61. They said I was gonna die and I heard you guys talking about living defense that flushes out the guts and goes out of the parasites, both tiny and large. He took it, just one of the ingredients- and this is black walnut, and he says he's great now. Well, that's what it's designed for and I'm not saying it's a blue of medical treatment. I'm not saying any of that. I'm saying what God gave us, the medicine chest is incredible: 100% reviews, check it out, info or store calm and We were gonna sell out of it this year. It looks like I was gonna sell out this week but I'm gonna keep it at 1995. There's a lot of other big specials right now that are about to end. We've got the everything must go: 40 to 70% off, store-wide Double Patriot points and store-wide free shipping. that's going to end this weekend. So, whether it's tumor or whether it's the great wake up America coffee or whatever it is, take advantage those big sales, Because at the level we're selling a ton of product but we don't have big markups on these, especially when it's 50% off. Some of these we make mistakes, like the skin cream 50% off. that was below cost And no wonder it's sold out in a couple days We have the little tubes at 25% off. You know, then we make a few bucks on each one of those. So thank you all for your patronage. But it's a great high-tech shopping cart. a lot of folks use it. We have great service. It's not overnight like Amazon. You know that you get all the gun control, whether the rest of it It's just, you're getting a few days generally, But son of her auto ship additional 10% off info or storecom. I want to thank you all for your support norm. That is a famous lawyer here riding shotgun with us today. What do you make of this? All the things that are happening In the world today and the open attack on free speech by the supposed guardians of it, liberals- I think we've descended to the politics of pathos. We all want to feel special, We all want to feel cherished, and the result is anybody who has anything to say that hurt somebody's feelings is regarded as a criminal. I I find it very dangerous. I'm told that there's legislation pending in perhaps Massachusetts, or at least one lawmaker who wants to make the the w-word with a B. I know you've got family viewers on a crime to assert: Well, she's just the name of a female dog and it can be used offensively. That's the way the world works. but you know, when it's used offensively It's a crime. or we talked last week in Connecticut about ridiculing people and some youngs and Yukon students being Arrested for them. Yeah, I talked to the prosecutor. in fact, since I spoke to you, I called him up. I know him. I'm gonna want to use his name here. I said: did you really sign a warrant for those kids? He said he did. I said: well, what happened? He said: here's what happened. three boys were out one night, college kids playing a game. I guess it's a drinking game. You pick an offensive word and you say it and then the next guy has to say it louder and it goes louder and louder. The person who backs down in the end has to take a drink. so they were talking about a certain portion of the male anatomy, The third leg, as it were. when that word ran out of- they ran out of time with that word- They switched to the n-word. so they're walking through a park and somebody started the film when they were hollering penis Because they thought it was funny. when they switched to the n-word, that person suddenly became enraged and upset and they were saying: You know, nigger, louder and louder and louder. that person then sent the video to her mother, who called the NAACP. He created a storm and had the kids arrested for ridiculing people. No one was ridiculed. That's the real. but the law is wrong. Well, the law is unconstitutional and it's a danger to everyone. The law- I'm glad we got the inside scoop now. The what was funny is, you know, I looked at the lawn of things. When did they pass that? it has to be brand new. I've been practicing law for so long- I can't remember how long it is. Um, it's been on the books apparently since 2008. So we did a. we did some research to see whether anybody had ever challenged that law, and the Connecticut Supreme Court is on As a violation of the First Amendment, right to speak. no one has. so I was hoping one of those young men would have called our Office to represent them. They haven't, so we're not. but the next time somebody gets charged under that statute on my watch, We're on our way to the Supreme Court getting that thing declared unconstitutional. Well, mystery of the men arrested for offensive word in Connecticut. now solve a normed paddus. We got to put a little three-minute video out because that's that's pretty interesting and an incredibly dangerous. I had heard the story that that's what happened and I didn't believe it. I've known the prosecutor forever and you know when he called, that was incredulous. I said: have you actually prosecuted people under that statute? before he says, well, Yeah, I have, and nobody's ever challenged that unconstitutional. Well, it just shows we have to stand up against it. amazing, norm X in Dallas, You're on the air X, Thanks for holding. Oh. Well, I just want to say I'm black and I'm not offended one bit by that last piece. You know the liberals are like to take what norm paddus said and go. Oh, my god, He just said it. Let me move on from there. Um, thank you for that, by the way. I went. I went to Hollywood. I went to Hollywood and I'm from Texas and they told me: you know, First thing they told me was: you need to act more black. I didn't understand it. This was, this was before Trump. then they told me, when I got to Hollywood, after they took me to a dispensary at 18 years old, they said: well, You, one of the guy, one of the guys at the label introduced me to said you need to hang out with this guy while we're here in Hollywood. He said you can call me mess, this though for short, which everybody knows is short for Memphis Duffield. So if you think, if you think that the, if you think the Satanism is fake, you're wrong. Secondly, Kanye West not only shod you out, He was talking about Edward Bernays, He was talking about cigarettes and women and the whole movement. So when people think Alex Jones is lying about Kanye West, listen to the show. Not only does Kanye West listen to the show, he repeats what Alex says in live interviews, And this wasn't on the big boy interview. This is on another interview done by a British guy. So you can have a crew look that up and get some more footage. Oh, I know he tunes in. we've talked to his folks and The security didn't want him to come here. So that's what it's in. was your security gonna give us problems? We hear there's snipers on the roof and you know we're like: oh yeah, We got snipers and they're we're, you know our. and then they go and like freaked out. So that wasn't Kanye, That's his security. people keep him from coming on the show, but hopefully he'll come on soon. Oh, He has to, he has to. so I've got to ask: did you act? I mean, what would it? what did it mean to you when they said you don't act, black enough, Were you insulted by that? And was it a white guy that told you you didn't do that It was. it was a white woman who was the wife of the record label owner who, who came up to me and said this to me: Did you ask her what that meant? Well, this was okay. so keep in mind, this was before Trump. and yeah, in my mind I'm half white, I'm half black. I thought I was a liberal. when this happens, when that happens, I was like wait what? and so then I start hearing I was Jones talk about social engineering, and I'm like, okay, Well, I get it. So they want me to paint a picture because I'm not stupid, You know. I mean they want me to drag the pants, They want me to say: you know, they want me to act a certain way. And it's to me It was just. it was like: why do you think? at about 1987, suddenly all the heavy metal and rock bands started doing gangster rap. I've talked to top famous musicians. You've seen some- I'm here on the show- and they said no, behind the scenes. They were told by Viacom that owned MTV back when it was powerful: You will do gangster rap or you're not going to be on air anymore. We're getting rid of rock and roll, We're bringing in gangster rap and they literally didn't just get black kids, But everybody into it to then prime them for prison. Why so you talk about a pipeline to prison? That was all part of the Clinton crime bill that came later. All of that was literally just tell black folks, your culture is gangbanging, murder And death, when that was not the culture. That's. that's shocking. I still I would, if you had it to do all over again. I'm sorry to beat a dead horse. Well, if you had it to do all over again, What would you say to that record producer's wife today if she, if she said you didn't act black enough. I just said the same thing. I said to her back then- and then you're not beating that horse, because this is something I've been wanting to call into infowars for a long time. job, But I told her. I said I said: well, that's the end of this. and whenever, whenever we got back from home. I told them. I said I don't want to do this anymore. Hey, I'm gonna get to Jake, Brian, Eric and John to, but to stay there, I want you to finish up with metastopheles. That's what they tell you in Hollywood. Hey, you got to get down with Satan first. Bob Dylan told people that, hey, we're gonna get. will Johnson? here too? Stay with us, We'll be right back. Heart disease is on the rise. clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected by you, But the symptoms are there. loss of energy, blood sugar spikes and drops or circulation and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these that can Alert you that something is wrong. Hear how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives across America. My blood pressure has normalized. my diabetes has totally improved. Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look, and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel. I recommend heart body extract to everyone. anybody over 40 years old, Everybody over 40 in the North American continent, should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy. Order your two-month supply today by calling 866-295-5305- That's 866-295-5305- Or order online hbextractcom. Heart and body extract- 866-295-5305 Or hbextractcom. Please listen to this information because it can save your life and it can save the life of others. There couldn't be more critical information for your physical body. God's more important when it comes to your soul, but this is most important when it comes to your body. If people didn't know that you put motor oil in a car's oil container to lube the engine, They might be able to be conned and think you put salt water in it, but it would seize up the engine pretty much instantly. Well, if they put fluoride in the human body, it causes cancer, dumps us down and destroys fertility. If you put the good halogen in the body- high-quality iodine- it's like putting good, high-quality motor oil in the car that's supposed to run on it. It's that simple. Find out about the iodine conspiracy at m4storecom and find out what the globalists hope that you do not. research this information, Ladies and gentlemen. whatever you do, research iodine deficiency. It's the key to everything. And then go and take advantage of the 60% off combo with our two different types of high-quality iodine and biotrystallinium at m4storecom today. Here are the facts: Iodine raises IQ and, across the board, makes you more healthy. in thousands of top studies, Including the American Medical Journal. Every type of fluoride lowers IQ massively, increases cancer and destroys fertility. That's the facts. Learn about the iodine conspiracy And then, once you've learned about it, protect yourself and your family. The reason I'm so hot on this is the globalists put the fluoride in the water while making sure we don't get the iodine In China. they put the iodine in the water and ban the fluoride because they've already got their people under their control. The globalists are targeting us here. Please go to m4storecom. Experience iodine and biotrystallinium that goes with it together And then, once you see the great results, warn others. This is the Achilles Hill of the globalist. It's a win-win situation. The only way you lose is not taking action. Take action now. We have strong disagreement on policy grounds and I hope there's diversity in policy here. I don't care what your views are. I hope you articulate them and defend them and listen and debate them. That's important. But we have something in common. We have a set of values that are at the core of this country that hold this place together. Clinton, deep state bag man Comey thinks it's funny that he was the leaker And that he lied to Congress in the world. He thinks committing crimes are funny And he thinks if he acts confident he won't get indicted. But word is, the criminal investigation is honing in on him. From my new home in New Zealand I will. Oh. and now suddenly he's talking about moving to New Zealand. Not so fast, criminal, We're going to bring you to justice And we're going to bring Hillary to justice as well, Because if we don't, you criminals will continue to strike back at your enemy. But the American people know how much you hate us And we're fighting back. at infowarscom, newswarscom. You're listening to the Alex Jones show. The globalist's great error is to believe that as they collapse, humanity, they end up on top. The truth is, humanity is coming down fast, But we're miles above them on our journey to hell. You're listening to the Alex Jones show. So Will Johnson's here with us riding shotgun. Tony And what's coming up on his show with Tom Papert, Firepower, 7 o'clock Central here at bandvideoinfowarscom, The radio and TV satellites for fine stations out there to pick it up. A lot of mar. And of course one of my great counselors is here as well, famous lawyer Norm Pattis. We're going to finish up these five or six calls- Eric, John X, Dallas, Jack and Brian- Before we end this transmission. But here's a little bit of a large man with a reddish-blonde wig Charging around in front of men, women and children trying to stop their free speech, Getting arrested in Austin last night. here it is: Black trans life matter. black trans life matter. Trans women's matter. black trans women's matter. Black trans women's matter. I think that got bigger than all three police combined. So Will Johnson's here to tell us exactly where this was and what happened. I mean, this is happening everywhere we're now that's coming in the schools, Not just the libraries, where these men come. we plug the clubs. They say: we're going to groom your children, you're not going to stop us. Now there's video on inforwarscom where they spread their legs with no underwear on in front of children And the liberals all clap, and it's a lot of fun to introduce your children to these nice people That really want to get close to your children. So again, Will Johnson, thanks for popping in with us. what in the hell's going on? What happened here? So I went to this event yesterday thinking that we're just going to get some good information about how they're trying to prevent the school district- Are these liberals- from teaching kids about homosexual sex? That's what I was going there to cover. Shouldn't we teach them about sex period? Somebody walks up to your kid in a park and wants to talk about sex. we call him a pedo. Yeah, exactly, but it should be up to the parents to teach them about sex and how the parents want to go along. But what they're wanting to do is indoctrinate the children that homosexuality act, Or something that everyone should be embracing. So I was at this event thinking that, hey, this is just going to be information. we're going to get information And I'm going to be able to relate it to everyone so they can see that we have people in Austin, Texas, Trying to prevent this perversion from taking over the school district. Well, as a result, we got people to show up that started acting crazy because they didn't want people to have their voices heard. Not only were they censoring their freedom of speech, they want to make sure that no one can hear their message. Can you talk about the bottom of the barrel, zombies, And I'm not disagreeing with you, but when we say that, the homosexual sex, quite honestly, the quote gay people- you don't see down there. They're like running companies and stuff or whatever. This is worse. this is pedos wanting access And then pedos can't. followers on the left that believe it's cool And we can play the clips where they say: we're grooming your children. and these very groups- a lot of them- are convicted pedophiles. Yeah, and you're not thinking that? who's going to protest against protecting children? That's what I'm thinking. Who's going to protest against protecting children? But here it is, And the school is going to teach the kids that they're really another gender, So they can take them away from the parents and chop the labels off. Exactly so they're going to have videos, pictures, documentation on how to actually have the anal sex. So they're teaching little boys how to get with other little boys and how to have. And people don't believe that. They don't believe it. yeah, Boy Scouts of America is going bankrupt because three years ago at the Jamboree, they hand out even to seven-year-olds condoms And then the pedophiles just rape them and mash at the Boy Scouts of America. They did the same thing in California. So I'm living in California, thinking I'm with the Texas. okay, I'm going to be away from all of that, I don't have to worry about the children. But here it is in Austin, Texas. They just passed it yesterday. It says Texas School District mandates teaching kids how to have anal sex And California just passed this. Yes, California had already done it a while ago. And they're saying: parents can't opt out. Yeah, I was getting ready to say that. you beat me to it. Parents can't opt out on providing. Let's be clear, we're talking about elementary students. I mean, I remember Jocelyn Elders when she was a third-general. She said: reach down and talk to them, Help the master bride, That's her voice. So this is an old, creepy woman Wants to put her hands on your daughters and your son's private parts. But it's okay, because they're liberal, Yeah. so yesterday, when we were at the event, The LGBTQ plus P community showed up and went to: Oh, the P showed up, Oh, the P. yeah, It was primarily the P. I guess I don't get out enough. What's the P stand? The pedophile? Yeah, originally it came out as a pedophile, But then they changed it to pansexual. They put the P on, Yeah, so they changed it to pansexual Because it was too evasive. right, It was too much in our face, you know? Right there, pansexual. So now they changed it to pansexual And you've got a 50-minute report at bandvideo And at your site, firepowernewscom. Yes, Yes, Let's get Norm's take on this. Then I want to take some calls. I'm speechless. I mean, you know I'm speechless. You're going to show your photos of men with no clothes on In Austin with small children in public. Sure, I mean, start rolling it. We're going to teach children how to have anal sex in school. First graders, First graders- No, no, no, that you can't be serious. This is the world. These people mean business, bro. Yeah, this is the world we live in. In first grade we're going to teach people about. Well, they got to confuse them early on. Mainly in England, half the autistic kids are now Caught by the pedophile. now You've seen this regulation with your own eyes. I'm sorry, Alex, I'm not calling you a liar. Maybe see news, put it up. They've already done it in California. Now it's here in Texas, of all places, And you know what They got to start rolling Rob Do's report without audio. And again, be your discretion advised. This is what is going on in Austin with small children. Start rolling Do's report and play in the first hour. guys, Go ahead. Okay, so the main reason why they're doing it: They're giving an excuse like this. By the way, those guys on screen say: we're here to groom your children. There are sorry, go ahead. Yeah, they're saying they want to. This is in elementary school. it's right here on screen. So the children will have will be safe. That's how they're saying it. Safe from what? So they will have they will be safe. That's exactly how they're pushing. you have to think about it. Now watch, they start spreading their legs. They're probably little kids right here. You think I'm joking. I know when somebody first sees this they can't believe it. This guy says: we're grooming your children. you can't stop us. Yeah, And he goes and does. he spreads his legs for little kids. Now you're going to see children riding men with erect genitals through their pants in a moment. And then you're going to see men, naked except glitterers on their genitals, hugging little children- And this is becoming the norm, which is really insane. And then you want us to show the new thing that's on national TV: HBO is teaching how to have sex with, with, with earthworms. You're not messing with me, are you? No, I'm not joking, keep going. This is the word we live in. Man, why are you against sex with earthworms? I guess I'm just not species sensitive enough. Call me a speciesist, you know. Well, yeah, you're very bigoted of you. Well, no, the guys. they're raping them, but they say it's okay. You see that? So disgusting. Now we're blurring this for chill for people. right now. This is in an elementary school, Yeah, And, and, and libraries And public libraries. and then parents are taking their children And in some cases they don't tell the parents. It's crazy. it's crazy. We have that poor kid. no wonder she looks confused. No, watch this. spread their legs to them. this is the spread in the legs part. And then they have the kids clapping to them And some, some videos they show even the kids taking and putting money. So let me see if I get this right. If you wear the wrong Halloween costume, You can be targeted for prosecution, But if you're a guy and you dress up as a chick And you and you and you writhe in my child's face, That's okay, Yeah, yeah. And today, how do we distinguish between what's prohibited and what's prohibited? Hey guys, show the show: eight-year-olds twerking with the men with erections behind them. No, come on. No, no, no. this is public. and the media said: hey, kids like King too. Major media praised this right here. That's an eight-year-old boy. And then watch this guy with the erection comes over behind him. This is terrible. this is terrible. This is liberal. I mean I don't know where. I have a little kid, a little boy, out here twerking And he only has on shorts And he's grown men. And, by the way, a bunch of newspapers said this is good. Good for what? Well, because it said. it said kids like King too. Look, I mean, we're all here because of sex. We're all you know. if sex is a sin, we're all circumstantial evidence of other people's crime. Yeah, but children aren't supposed to be involved until they're older, because they're not even thinking about it. That's exactly right. You know, my kids are all grown. I guess I should be thankful. I should be worried about my grandchildren. You go to school. I don't want you coming home. Well, that's why we're showing this. We're gonna come back with calls, I promise, but I wanted to cover this. I promise. X, Jake, Brian, Eric, John, I'm getting to you, I will get to all five of those callers, But we're not playing. if you're a radio listener, you're lucky. you didn't have to see this. Remember, while you're busy about your life, they want your children, they're hunting your children. Folks ask me, Alex, why do you have two different types of iodine? Well, that's because different types of physiology, different types of metabolic systems and people will like different formulas. It's just that simple. X3 is the deep-earth crystal iodine and two other types. because some people need all three types to absorb, others like the pure atomic iodine, Get both. they're both great for you. whichever one you like, use that and give the other to family or friends. Bottom line iodine is essential. that's why I harp on it. The globalist want you to be deficient in it for a lot of reasons. Lower IQ makes you sluggish. you don't live as long. It's simple: get your high quality iodine at InfowarsStorecom and help fund the Infowar InfowarsStorecom. We've got a huge sale running right now, but it's about to end. it's the iodine challenge: Both types of iodine with selenium for 60% off together. Again, I'm not talking down to the Infowars audience, but I've been banging my head against a wall for a long time on this, And I'm talking about fluoride and I'm talking about iodine. Now, if you have a boat- a motor boat, let's say an old glass-tron boat- And you want to take it on the lake, you've got to have a lake to put it in. If you're a human being, you've got to have oxygen to live. Okay, it's the same thing. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the bad halogen is fluoride. that's why, in every western nation, they put it in the water. They're going to teach us Christians: lay down and die The chai comms. don't put it in the water. they'd execute you if you did that. They put iodine in the water because it's the good halogen and increases fertility and lifespan and intelligence and everything else. So again, learn about the iodine conspiracy at InfowarsStorecom- We have all the documents and articles linked- And then get good iodine for yourself, because the globalists are fighting to make sure you don't Again. get iodine at InfowarsStorecom. Infowars presents Alex Jones. In August of 2019, JAMA, or the Journal of the American Medical Association The most prestigious, came out and said: oh my gosh, Just a little bit of fluoride in the water causes lowered IQs, massive infertility And a lot of babies die in the womb, and it causes cancer. That was just one of thousands of studies admitting this. You know it's illegal to have even one part per billion in the water in places like California, Unless it's part of adding fluoride. And then they have a waiver and can add thousands of deadly chemicals to your water Because the liberals love you and they want to sexualize your children. So, whatever you do, drink lots of fluoride And don't get the thing that counters iodine at InfowarsStorecom. Drink fluoride and die. Drink fluoride, dirty Americans, and roll over. Do not visit InfowarsStorecom and get high poly iodine to counter it. No, roll over and die dirty Americans. Infowarscom- forward slash show. Now what I'm about to say is incredibly obvious And I'm not talking down to any of the viewers or any of the listeners. I'm just stating the facts. I own a chainsaw. I've had it since I was in college And it's a great, good old chainsaw and I've used it probably 500 times. But a few times I've forgotten to oil it and it seizes up really quick And I feel like an idiot for not oiling it. Now imagine if somebody told me to put, let's say, super glue in the oil container on it. It would seize up forever. but only an evil person would do that. Well, fluoride's like putting super glue in a chainsaw: it's gonna make it seize up And that's why they put it in the water And they admit they're doing it to hurt you and your family. Yes, they're really evil. Iodine is like putting oil in the chainsaw to help with the gasoline lubrication. It's that simple. I know you understand this, but let's warn other people before it's too late. It's part of the iodine conspiracy. Find out more at InfowarsStorecom and take action against the globalist Carbon's everywhere on this planet. It's almost like we're carbon-based live forms. We're now only 13 months out from the most important elections in human history. I'm your host, Alex Jones, riding shotgun with me. This is, of course, Will Johnson from Firepower Week night 7 o'clock Central, banned on video. Infowarscom syndicated out on the radio and TV satellites, All of those fine affiliates out there picking it up And, of course, Norm Pattis, constitutional lawyer. He'll be on The War Room coming up in about 12 minutes With Owen Schreuer at Infowarscom for his last show And banned on video. remember, These scumbags want to silence us So they can roll out their takeover, but it's not going to happen. We are here as the modern ball of ears, Broadcasting worldwide and ringing the alarm. We're promoting a pro-human future against the technocracy. All right X in Dallas finishing up with you, You were saying when you went out there for a music career, The record label told you to basically try to act like a thug. is what they meant, Very racist, you were saying. And you need to get down with methistopheles, which of course is the name of the devil, And the Faustian riddle where you need to sell your soul. Describe that for us. Well, right, the first day they said, hey, we got a guy named. I'm not going to say his name, but we got a guy who's a friend of the label, Who's going to show you around Hollywood. I went over to his house, long story short, He said: you know, you can call me Mephisto for short. And I said, well, I don't know who that is. And he said: look up, look up my sister. I looked it up, it was methistopheles. Later on that night he asked me to pray to Satan And I was just kind of like, ha ha ha, this is funny. But then so I finished the album up And whenever we were done with the album, I got back to Texas And I told him: you know what I'm done with this, I don't want to do this anymore. And just so people know I'm a real person, you can go look up the album. If you want me to name the album, I'll name it. Sure, go ahead. It's called Halfway Across the Stars And it's by Chester Rushing. And if you looked up the album, Oh, listen, that's standard Mark Dice. they were going to have a national show With a very big rock star And they just said: listen, we worship the devil here And that's really who runs things We need you to. you know, pray to Satan with us. And that's standing Bob Dylan's giving speeches. He says: I signed up with the chief master and commander, Lucifer, And I went to the crossroads and sold my soul. That's really what these people are into. It's not a game, it's not a joke. God bless you. And of course, this idiot saying sign up Wasn't really Methodistopheles. They're a bunch of slaves. That's why Hollywood Listen this all You know. you live by skull and bones there. So I mean, you're pretty close to one of the little satanic temples And, believe me, it looks like it. I mean it's a secret, You know it yields oldest secret society And arguably one of its most prestigious. It has a building located just off downtown. Nobody ever gets to go in it. But one day they left the door open And I wanted to sneak in. Oh, the tomb. You stuck in the tomb. Well, I didn't quite get in. The gate was ajar, The door was open And I thought, well, if the door is open, I should go and check and make sure everything's okay. And about the time I got to the door, An armed guy came out and said: you can't come in Now. I didn't smell garlic, I didn't see a cloven hoof, The music from the exorcist wasn't playing, But it was creepy. Well, I know it goes on there Because Charlotte Isherby's dad was in it And he released the info to Anthony Sutton And the church committees, And so we know exactly what goes on. Well, there is a lot of recruitment, that goes on, And there are two secrets. I mean, it's a secret society And you pledge to keep those secrets forever, And you. But we do know that they channel a spirit. Well, you know, that's where I listen to you And I respect you, But I'm tone deaf to spiritual realities. I mean, I believe in grace and the power of redemption, But in terms of evil, I see its consequences. I don't see the spirits, Sure, But what I'm telling you is: It's on record that they do rituals, But I know they have ritualism. Have you ever seen The Good Shepherd? Yeah, I have. It was produced by Robert De Niro. Right, It's got Ned Damon in it? Yeah, But that's based on a true story. And the rituals where they're in the big vats of feces, That's real, Wow. And they get in coffins and are reborn, Have a spirit come into them. I said it before on this show, Just moments ago. I'll say it again: I don't get out enough. How do you know all this? Well, this is right down the street from me, brother, It is, but I guess I'm not awake. I guess I need to get woke, right? Yeah, well, you can say info wars is actually woke. You're like Kanye West at Alex Jones level. No, I hear something, But I mean seriously, though that's not. Let me tell you something. This stuff's real, okay, Yeah, Okay, let's take a few more calls here. Who's been holding the longest? I appreciate, Brian. in Iowa, You're a trooper. Brian's been holding so long. Make sure we get his name addressed. Send him a free t-shirt. Brian, thanks for holding. Go ahead. Hey, Norm, if you want to be woke up, Take X2 with some brain force. It'll defibrillate your brain. That sounds good, And you've really been holding since the 2016 election. Yes, sir, go ahead, Brian. Pretty much, pretty much So. Tim Poole did a video on Katie Hill Stepping Down And he kind of tied it in to Ilhan Omar, Saying that, since Nancy Pelosi was saying That it was a good thing that she had stepped down, Why isn't she putting the pressure On Ilhan Omar to do the same, Because they essentially have done the same thing. Yeah, Katie Hill's in trouble for, I guess, having some Swinging parties or whatever. And now Ilhan Omar? I mean that woman is not just doing that, She's engaged in fake marriages, all sorts of fraud, Whatever. they're going to lose support from the Muslim community If they start going after Ilhan Omar. that way. She gets a pass, she gets a piece of pass That can be as nasty as she wants to be. Yep, It infuriates me because I got a brother-in-law That lives up there and he's blind to it And his sister's blind to it. Well, that's just political correctness. It's confirmed now. Even Fox News has covered that there are gangs Of anti-white Somalis Going around attacking, beating, even killing people, And the media is covering it up. that's wrong. There are gangs of white people going around killing black folks. That's horrible too, But that's what the liberal media has created, this atmosphere Where people say whites are so evil now That they're getting racially attacked all over the nation. I know you cover a lot of that will on firepower. I talk about that all the time and I want to address that issue all the time Because you know back in the day, they used to attack black people, And this was the Democrats. And now, the year 2019, about to be 2020- They're attacking white people. They're ruling. they want to put white people out in the street And hose them down with fire, hose sick dogs on them. That's the way the Democrats did in the past. They're wanting to do it today. You're right, they're definitely trying to create racial division And it hasn't worked so far, but they're sure as hell trying. Thank you, Brian, great point. Okay, who's up next here? Let's go to Jake in California. Thanks for holding it. go ahead, I'll bring out the stone. You wake up my whole family. You're a bad American. I'll fit them on here. Hey, Alex, oh my gosh, It's so amazing to talk to you. You have no idea. It's amazing talking to you, brother. Yeah, if there's anybody in the world that could just meet, It wouldn't be any celebrity or any world leader, would be you. Well, brother, you're meeting me right now And I'm honored to talk to you as well. All right, okay, Actually, Brian, if you really want to be woke up, Ask Alex what he really saw When he broke into Bohemian Grove, If he really saw a human sacrifice. Oh yeah, Norm, it was Brian's last caller, But I'm sure you've heard of Bohemian Grove. I have, I have. I mean it's mainly a gateway into the occult, But the practitioners take it real serious. Everybody else is like what the hell's going on, But it's a simulated, fauciating, human sacrifice of a child. Wow, I hate to sound naive, I like to think I got footage of it. I'd like to see that because I mean, look, I'm not saying you're a liar, it's not my style, But if that's what people get into and get off on, I mean it's an important thing to tell us about it. There it is. that's real strength. It's wrong. I remember seeing that. That's why they want me off YouTube and all that, So we can't show people this stuff. Wow, Two people in the black robes. Yeah, They got the high priest. Did you take this film? Yeah, I did. Yeah, they are burning the child in effigy. I don't think they're killing a real child, but Yeah, no, I hear you. But I mean it's the thought that counts, right, It's the intent that counts. Jake, I gotta jump call me again. I apologize. love you. Okay, real quick, John, in Canada, You say Canada's the wet dream of the globalist. go ahead. Hey, Matt, how's it going. I'm gonna be really quick here, But you look at what's going on right now up here. We just had all the stops pulled out in this last election with Justin Trudeau. Yeah, there's the voter fraud. There's been total ownership of the media. This is setting the stage for what you guys are gonna go through in 2020. Oh, yeah, they arrest pastors that read from the Bible in Canada. Yeah, now, Alex, you gotta listen to this. okay, You gotta pull all the stops. If you actually look at us, we're USA minor. okay, You gotta think globally. you gotta think in the little regions. right, We're part of the US region. You're gonna take everything they've used here and learn, and they're gonna double and triple it on you guys. I agree, Okay, Matt, we have a good day and thank you very much. God bless you for holding your real trooper, Eric and Arkansas. we got to everybody. Eric, take us out of here. tell Gunner Alright. okay, big time fan, first time caller. Three key points. I wanna get it. One of them is the UN gun agenda. It probably fits into the other, Agenda 30, 2030, But can you tell me the first time when they started taking guns away from people in America? They started in the 60s, right? Yes, Well, they took it from black folks at the end of the Civil War. That's when the NRA was founded to stop that. but yeah, 1960s they started where no felons can't have fire on. So when did that start? They started in the early 60s, right, It was a UN funded agenda. it was all brought on. 7277,. you're absolutely right, I'm out of time. Get his number, But listen, coming up, Norm Pattis is gonna be on the war with the destroyer And then firepower tonight 7 o'clock central infowarscom. And please keep spreading the word about the broadcast. Great job, crew. thank you all so much.This is Uncle Sam, with Music and the Truth Until Dawn. Right now I've got a few words for some of our brothers and sisters in the occupied zone. The chair is against the wall, John has a long mustache. This is the heart of 1776.. It's 12 o'clock, Americans, another day closer to victory. And for all of you out there on or behind the lines, this is your song. You are listening to an InfoWarscom Frontline Report. If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance From deep in the heart of FEMA, Region 6, Austin, Texas, transmitting worldwide. it's Alex Jones. It's Thursday, March 30th 2023.. I'm your host, Alex Jones. We have another incredibly important transmission lined up for you today. We have Roger Stone with Big Breaking News joining us in the second hour, Drew Hernandez joining us in the third hour and Paul Joseph Watson in the fourth hour. And boy do we have a full plate on the war front, on the economy front, on the total AI takeover, censorship front, on the transgender nation front, on black reparations in California that cost $800 billion government estimates. It is all the design takedown of our civilization. Thank you for joining us again on this live, Uncensored, teleprompter-free edition of the Alex Jones Show. I was the first, really 25 years ago or so to track where the transgender movement came from. and it was created by the transhumanist movement of Aldous Huxley, who really founded the United Nations and really ran it for the 30 years that he was alive, after setting it up in 1946 at Presidio Naval Base in San Francisco. And they said that once we bring up the family and once we confuse the genders, we can then separate children basically at birth and raise them as functionaries of the state, similar to the book his brother wrote in 31, or published in 32,, Brave New World, Aldous Huxley. So Huxley again wrote- I talk about this all the time and thank God now even Tucker Carlson is talking about it. If you go read it, it's incredible. Brave New World revisited in 1961 or 62 when he was dying of cancer And he gave speeches also. just not the book, that was non-fiction- saying this is the actual plan of my family and my brother and it's our world. and George Arwell was wrong and we won't rule you with jackboots and trudgeons. That's for the few that resist. We're going to chemicalize you and brainwash you from birth. You'll never know what hit you. And Bertrand Russell and others wrote books saying the same thing. So that's what this is. That's why it has pure, total corporate backing. And the good news is the public's really starting to figure out that the minions of this are mainly just autistic children who were put into the system and told they were transgender and celebrated and other mentally damaged folks because they always had to have a way to celebrate those they'd already brain damaged and then shunt them off into a sterilization program. But transgenderism is just the leading edge of this. And if you go to any of these transgender events in Kentucky or in Texas or in New York, we have countless videos. They are men dressed like clowns saying that's what a woman is at the clown, normally wearing bathymet outfits, And we have long compilations We played many times- We should probably play some of those- I haven't played them in a while- Of these individuals showing up at city councils everywhere in bathymet outfits. That happened a lot yesterday across the country, saying we're here to groom your children. They belong to us. We're going to get them. Hell, Satan. So Satan's army comes as pot-bellied, grotesque men in clown outfits demanding access to your children. Or, as the media is now defending this woman's a hero for going and killing the kids because people were mean to her. They'll kill you. If Alex Jones runs for president in the Republican Party, he has a chance of winning. If you just tuned in, you may be noticing I'm wearing an Alex Jones for president 2024 shirt. I am not seriously planning to run for president. This is an idea the crew had. I have a triggering shirt, kind of next level. Alex Jones was right. There's Infowarscom in the back, Alex Jones for president 2024 on the front. It's a fundraiser shirt. It's made out of really nice fabric. It's high quality. It is an exclusive shirt to Infowarscom and when the shirts are gone, they're gone. We're doing one run of Alex Jones for president 2024 shirts and we'll have a historic memento: be able to spread the word, meet a lot of like-minded people and you'll be able to keep us on the air. No way, No way. That's a bridge too far. No, it can't be. And I said on national television that he was going to win At Infowarscom. Big Brother, Mainstream media, Government cover-ups- You want to stop tyranny? Well, so does he Live from the Infowarscom studios? it's Alex Jones. Get your motor running Head out on the highway. Head out on the highway Looking for adventure. Looking for adventure And whatever comes our way. And whatever comes our way. Yeah, darlin', go make it happen. Take the world in a loving burst, Fire all of the guns at once and Explode into space. I like smokin' lightning. Ladies and gentlemen, we are live Thursday, March 30, 2023. And there is a lot of powerful news and information to cover today. Alright, the world's waking up to S-6-8-6. But the media's conflating it with Josh Hawley's bill that would just ban TikTok, Which I don't fully agree with. but I get his point. But I also get Rand Paul's point. But people are getting mad at Josh Hawley out there thinking he is pushing S-6-8-6. No, That's set to pass right now The people that actually sponsored S-6-8-6,. they are blocking, along with Rand Paul- for different reasons- Hawley's bill to just outright ban TikTok. He says we don't need this police state bill to take over the internet and have total surveillance and control. We need to just ban TikTok. It's run by the Chi-Coms And it does keylog. what you do, It is a weapon system. But Rand Paul goes: okay, well, are we going to ban all the other big tech here, Because they're all just the same? So I get his point as well, But it's a distraction from S-6-8-6. Because that bill does nothing to TikTok. It just takes over the entire web in the name of protecting you from TikTok and everything else. So we have that news. We have a big stack of the transgender cult going completely crazy all over the country As local governments and state governments move to protect children from the cult, which is extremely pedophilic at its heart. a lot of big developments on that front we're going to be going through. Also, I didn't see it in the stack. I meant to tell the crew, But we're going to be playing this coming up at the bottom of the hour. Cruz dims, perfectly willing to turn a blind eye to child rape and murder at the border. He destroyed the head of the ICE program, Mayorkas. So we're going to be playing that clip coming up. Absolutely destroys him. We're going to be looking at the incredibly dangerous and quickly escalating situation in Ukraine and what that's doing, not just militarily but economically around the world. And Rand Paul has helped return war powers to Congress. He's got bipartisan legislation that is on the verge of passing to suspend the legislation that enabled presidents to circumvent Congress and launch all these giant wars. So we're going to be looking at that. Also, major backlash against fake meat and insect-based food around the world, with legislation being passed in many countries are on the verge of passing. Some good news there: A town evacuated Minnesota after another train carrying ethanol- that's like two in the last day- derails and bursts into flames. I mean, a lot of this is deliberate sabotage. The amount of infrastructure collapse is just off the charts, ladies and gentlemen. So we're going to be looking at all of that and major rebellions against globalist agendas. all over the world, from Australia to New Zealand, to Germany, to the Netherlands, to the UK, to Israel, to France, People are fighting back against the globalists and directly challenging the actual controllers, not just fighting amongst themselves. Very good news on that front as well, And that's just some of the news I want to get into. reparations for black Californians could top $800 billion. That, of course, will be doled out by the Democrats and, of course, they will keep 90% of it, And that ties into some of the other legislation going on. So we'll be looking at all of that coming up here today, And you know, I want to talk to Roger Stone, I want to talk to Drew Hernandez. We look forward to them coming on with us. But I really want to take your calls on all this too, And that's why I've been doing a lot of the Saturday shows where we just take calls. I've been trying to take calls more during the weekday show. But I'll tell you what I'll do. We have a bunch of guests tomorrow and I want to interview those guests. but I think I may just move those guests so that we can take four hours of calls tomorrow, Because I really like taking your calls. so that's in the hopper as well. Okay, so that's some of what we're going to be hitting. We'll be hitting a lot of other news, obviously, as it breaks and unfolds. The first thing I want to hit is the trans cult and what they're up to, and then, when we come back, I'm going to get into some of their demonstrations all over the country in devil outfits. And the guy that stopped in Florida last week trying to go into a topless bar and kill a bunch of people, he was wearing a devil outfit as well. So these folks really kind of let you know who they are and what they're doing. They see themselves as priests carrying out the recruiting of your children. So that is all coming up. But the first thing again I want to drill into is the trans cult nation. that is a cult created by the CIA and corporate media and the Tabasco Institute and the entire system. So let's go ahead and start drilling into that right now. Ann Coulter has written a really informative article that I will not read here on air but you should read it. It's Transgender Nation. It's at townhallcom And she lays out the fact that it is a leftist sacrament of almost 90% white people who go get pregnant or adopt children so they can then tell them that they're another sex and force them, as it's now coming out, to transition and force them to cut their genitals off And what it does to little boys, how, for up to five years, they have to wear a giant cone inside their bleeding, bloody body because they don't have a vagina, they don't have a cervix, they don't have a uterus And let's just face it, women are amazing but they go through a lot: having a vagina, having a cervix, having a uterus, having ovaries And anybody that's been around and has a wife or mothers or sisters or children, I mean. you know, what girls go through is tough And they're designed with a vagina, with a cervix, with a uterus, to do this. And I was sent a clip yesterday that I forgot to send the crew that I hadn't seen. Tim Pool was playing a clip of this famous transgender individual. it's had a TV show, I guess, for over a decade, as the little boy transitioned to a girl And it's his mother making him do it and then him crying and complaining. but everybody loves the mother. she's a hero. When they chop the penis off, it goes over the years. I hadn't seen this till yesterday. I popped by my parents house, talked to one of their friends, one of my childhood friends, and I've known the woman since I was a kid, three years old. She was there. she said: have you seen this? And I said no. and then it was the mother making him wear in his body for five years a giant bloody cone inside of his body into an imaginary uterus. So not only did they chop his testicles and his penis off, but then they jammed a huge bloody cone up in him. it's infected and pus is dripping out. the person is in hell. mommy, why? Because I'm gonna kick your ass, I'm gonna come destroy you. you're a girl you've known you're always a girl. she made him say he was a girl. she cut off his penis. she cut off his genitals. the state did it, and now he wears a pussing bloody cone in him. I mean this is just so macabre, like it's a nightmare novel. I mean, imagine 30 years ago if Clive Barker wrote novels where children are made to cut their penises and breast off and testicles and then boys are made to wear basically something worse than a chastity belt from an evil times, strapped around their body with a giant bloody cone up in their raw flesh that just continues to fester and bleed and open up in a huge torture device. and they said it's all a giant satanic sacrament and a sick joke that they do this. and then all these mainly white liberal parents are just lining up to do it and it's just a giant satanic ritual in everybody's face. it's just so over the top, so hellish. we'll talk about it all when we come back. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a new toothpaste that my dad, a retired dentist and oral surgeon, developed- Dr Joe's Naturals Tumor Toothpaste. that just came into stock and I got to tell you I got samples of this months ago and it is amazing. The way it makes your gums feel. what it does to your mouth is insane. We know turmeric is an antioxidant and anti-inflammatory and does such great things to the body. then you add that with tea tree oil and a bunch of other essential oils, it is just dynamite. it is so good to detox and attack inflammation in your mouth. I want to challenge everybody to try the new toothpaste at InfowarStorecom- Dr Joe's Naturals Tumor Toothpaste. and, while you're at it, check out the new Ashwagandha line of products. we have Ashwagandha with black pepper extract for your libido, your testosterone, in pill form, and we have the pure Ashwagandha root gummies as well, now available at InfowarStorecom. they're amazing products and they fund the Infowar. take action now at InfowarStorecom. We now have three new game changing products that are in stock at InfowarStorecom and one of our best selling products sold out for over a year. that's now back at stock. Our prebiotic. does any introduction to such amazing things for your gut flora, your overall health? what it does is essential. go read about it at InfowarStorecom. and now the fourth toothpaste is I'm My Dad. the last two were big hits. this one is really special. it's turmeric concentrate with a bunch of other essential oils and so much more to take your mouth's health to the next level. We also have high quality Ashwagandha root for your libido, your stamina, your testosterone, with black pepper extract to accelerate it as a pill. and we have Ashwagandha root gummies as well- very strong, very powerful- now in stock at InfowarStorecom. go there, experience these great products and others and fund the Infowar. the only way we fail is not taking action. God bless you. now. please visit InfowarStorecom and experience these powerful products for yourself and films and supplements and survival gear that's there that won't just empower you and enrich your life, but again will keep this broadcast transmitting. so whether it's Real Red Pill Plus or our super high quality CBD oil for the 50% off, or our great fizzy magnesium product, or whether it's down and out, our great sleep bath is back in stock. it's all there. Our turmeric 95% cuminoid- strongest out there- turmeric 95, it's all available at InfowarStorecom and it keeps us on the air. so make the decision to enrich your life and keep us on air, InfowarStorecom. Autocrats only understand one word: no, no, no, Exactly, and that's why we say no to your vaccines. we say no to you shutting down our businesses. we say no to you taking our firearms. we say no to you censoring our free speech. we say no to you selling us out to the World Health Organization. we say no to you getting us into World War III. you're right. we stand against autocrats like you, Joe Biden, and we say no, and we say no to your war. All the hip young things trying to make you sing. Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen. alright, we've got some news here. Forsyth Tech College in North Carolina has a report of active shooter. We don't know if this is a false alarm or real. There were all sorts of false alarms across the country yesterday, dozens of them: basic hysteria. Since Columbine in 1999, there have been 175 people killed. That's terrible if you're one of these little kids and it's horrible. but Stalin said: One man dies as a tragedy, 10,000 dies as a statistic. fentanyl is killing over 100,000 people a year and the government and the media say it's a joke. late night comics think it's funny. all the death from the poison shots- a joke. but all 175 dead- that is the biggest story in the world. shooting hoaxes sweep through Utah schools, prompting police presence happened in many other areas around the country. at least 28 Massachusetts schools targeted with hoax shooting calls. it's bad. we're going to be watching this as it unfolds. I'm not saying there isn't a shooting in Forsyth Tech in North Carolina. I'm saying we hope it's not true. okay, so in Coulter's got a big article out, all these studies and numbers and research and it's dead on. but it is a phenomenon of 91 plus percent of the households where they are saying that the children are transgender or white and most of them are single mother led and it's just a thing that's hyped up. that's cool that everybody's got to do kind of like. in 2000s, the thing for hollywood people to do was to go adopt a black baby from africa. they- basically almost all of them- did it. that's at least adopting a poor baby. but now the new thing is take your child or adopt a child and go mutilate them and it's a cult. it's child abuse. you can take any child you want that trusts you from a baby and teach it. it's something else. at least call that a cult. well, that's what that is. this is a government sponsored, media supported think tank created system. and look at some of these headlines. media test narrative: trans shooter was victim rejected by Christian parents. big article by Breitbartcom got dozens of examples of mainstream media saying, hey, the parents may have rejected their daughter, saying that she was a boy and so some kids need to get shot. Twitter deletes thousands of tweets about planned trans day of vengeance that's supposedly coming on April 1st won't have long to see what happens with that. Transgender shooter manifesto will be released publicly in the coming days. the police are saying Biden says if we protect LGBTQ individuals, our societies are stronger. that's his response to the mass murder. and to invite kids upstairs if they're- quote- good looking, to have some ice cream with him. wow, Trump blasts Biden's horrible response to Nashville school shooting. Alarming answer on gun confiscation given at White House briefing. She said they may have to confiscate all the semi-autos. Very important short clip I'm going to play from his 10 minute introduction monologue last night. The full video is on Infowarscom. Transgenderism, Tucker Carlson, is the natural enemy of Christianity. It is at war with Christianity. And then if you ever go out to any of these events, it's men dressed like clowns saying they're a woman. so they're stealing the identity of a woman. they're colonizing women's spaces and saying a fat ugly man in a bathomet outfit Is what a woman is. And I've got more articles with colleges all over the world saying don't say mother or father, don't say boy or girl. This is a cult coming after our biology. And again there's the young turds and the governor's press secretary in Arizona and all of them saying the trans are being attacked, which isn't true. they're taking over, Trying to force us into their cult, coming after our children, killing us, And if we don't like it, well, we need to be killed. State university tells students it's wrong to say female or America Michigan State University. So that's just some of what we're going to be laying out. Here's some other ones. Taxpayer funded Canadian TV put out segment normalizing drag for kids And they say: oh, don't ban drag. it's anti-free speech. It's trying to ban lewd sexual performances with children where alcohol is served. Imagine if you went to a topless bar. You can argue that's moral or not moral. but you're adults And you're sitting there off the highway somewhere on a business trip with your buddies and you decide to go to the topless bar and have a steak or whatever And you see a five year old girl get on stage and start shaking her ass and dudes put money in the g-string. The police would be called, The owners would be arrested, But before the police got there the manager would get his ass kicked, Guaranteed. But they go to mainly gay bars all over the country now and they have little kids get up on the stage in g-strings. that are little boys acting like girls with their tops off, so it's the idea that it's a girl and they're doing this and it's pedophilic and it's sick. I sent you guys a video yesterday- we didn't get to- there's so many of these- of a new video of this big fat man aggressively coming up to this two-year-old toddler in its face and shaking his fake breast in the child and I mean it is just super aggressive and super degenerate. Now here it is. Go ahead and roll it with audio. I mean, just look at this And that's a mating dance. That's a stylized man dressed as a woman doing a mating dance in front of a little kid very aggressively, And that's nothing. I mean there's videos of them spreading their legs with their tops off and fake breasts hanging out. But that's the cult folks. They're attacking our morals. They know exactly what they do by fat men dressed up as bathomet And it's all a big joke. In fact, I know we've got like five or six compilations an hour of the video. Will you ask McBreen or Dew or somebody to go through our pedo drag queen compilations and just get the clips of the clown guys all over the country dressed in these priest outfits and bathomet outfits and the clips of them saying: we are the priest and we're grooming your children. your children are ours. Because that'll be like three or four minutes of that alone, I don't want to air too much of it. I can't watch it And then put in some of the clips of them simulating killing children, Because that's what they're doing is: killing their innocent. It's all a giant satanic pedophilic ritual in your face. We'll be right back. Stay with us. The most banned man in America, Alex Jones. I want you all to know something: Alex Jones was right. Alex is right about far more than he's wrong. Alex has been right on toward over a decade. I don't care how you slice it, dice it, flip it up or rub it down. Alex Jones was right. Think about how frustrated we are. if you've been awake for a year or two. Imagine being like an Alex Jones or those guys who've been awake for like decades. Alex Jones called this years ago, years ago. Alex Jones never bought the Russia hoax, not for a second. You are one of the great thinkers of this. You are a martyr to the First Amendment. The government fears Alex Jones. That's why the globalists hate me is because I'm exposing their corporate worldwide tyranny. And now the fourth, toothpaste designed by my dad. The last two were big hits. This one is really special. It's turmeric concentrate with a bunch of other essential oils and so much more to take your mouth's health to the next level. We also have high quality ashagandha root for your libido, your stamina, your testosterone, with black pepper extract to accelerate it as a pill. And we have ashagandha root gummies as well- Very strong, very powerful. Now in stock at InfoWarStorecom. Go there, experience these great products and others, and fund the InfoWar. The only way we fail is not taking action. God bless you. Now, please visit InfoWarStorecom and experience these powerful products for yourself. If you've been awake for a year or two, imagine being like an Alex Jones or those guys who've been awake for like decades. Alex has been right on for over a decade. This is reality. It just has been. Truth is stranger than fiction. The revolution of peaceful information is coming And when it comes time, you people are going to be brought to punishment. You're lying to the public. It's disgusting. The media continues to misrepresent what I've said. He may be America's best known conspiracy theorist. Alex Jones has the largest audience in the country, Bigger than any of the networks, The biggest megaphone in the country, We're going to get fired up about the real things, The things that matter- Burning hell. New World Order. Humanity is in a fight for its very life And InfoWars, for decades, has been at the very forefront of the fight for a pro-human future. We can't stay on air without your help And I want to thank you all for your past support, And I want to encourage those of you that have never bought products at InfoWarsStorecom to go there and experience how amazing these products really are: Ultimate Bone Broth, finally sold out for over two years, back in stock. Real Red Pill Plus- simply amazing. Nitric boosts, what it does for your heart, Cardiovascular critical. All these products, like Ultimate Krill Oil, Ultimate Fish Oil, Super Mel Vitality- they're all available and in stock, ready to ship to you Right now at InfoWarsStorecom. And the final 1200 signed copies of my book, The Great Reset in the World for the World- and I'm not going to sign any more after that- are exclusively available at InfoWarsStorecom as well. In the last month I got a little busy so I didn't sign the books. We didn't have them for sale, But now I signed the last books. You can get them right now, Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. It's Alex Jones. If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance Live from Austin, Texas. you're listening to the Alex Jones Show. Okay, I'm going to get more into the Trans Cult and critical information on how to stop it. Roger Stone joins us about 15 minutes into the hour to cover all the big political developments. We also have some good news. People are really pushing back on a lot of the great reset Got a lot of banking news, a lot of military news that we'll be hitting in this hour, Huge developments in Ukraine and Russia with the economy and the move away from the dollar. Very important information coming up. But I wanted to play this clip. The full exchange is nine minutes long. It's on Infowarscom. I suggest you go watch it and share it. Cruz dims, perfectly willing to turn a blind eye to child rape and murder at the border. Now let's talk about this. This is modern slavery going on, Millions and millions and millions coming across the year. The estimates about five to six million, Hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of thousands of small children, And the reports he goes over from DHS in the full video are one year old baby boys and girls raped so bad. some of them died. Senate reports have confirmed tens of thousands of small children under Obama got transferred to sex rings knowingly by DHS. Trump basically stopped it- 95%. He damned it up. Now estimates are it's five times worse than it was even under Obama. The border is completely gone. So Cruz is rightfully pissed about this because he's down at the border constantly. He's down there every few months. That is something good he's done. This is all like it's Disney World now. It's all run by the cartels. It's operated like a corporation. The people wear the wristbands of what cartel they're with and how much they've paid, and if they don't pay, they lock them up in a tractor trailer in the heat to die. It happens every day. They find a tractor trailer with 4 or 5, 10,, 15,, 20,, 30, 50 dead people in it. They just found another one a couple days ago and it's just a footnote, Not like the mass shootings they hype up, but these are human beings. and then they're bringing rot into the US, into cities and areas Democrats control with their immigration lawyers. They're given jobs and then part of that money is paid back to the lawyers and the Democrats. They also put them on welfare That's skimmed off and they are farming these people for sweatshops and slave labor and sex trade, and Project Veritas has exposed it, We've exposed it. It's not hard to expose. If you go down to the Texas border, it is the road warrior: Little kids being handed off. this is my child, no paperwork, and it's the same woman drives back an hour later, brings another two year old or another six month old and they're just handed to people with no ID to just disappear to God knows where. None of us are safe when this is going on. Oh, and a child of a Hispanic, white black. it doesn't matter if it's a citizen. it's kidnapped out of their backyard. It's a big national story And man, there's manhunts and they almost always find who did it. But when it's these children being brought in here and human trafficked and sex trafficked, it's protected by Mayorkas and he doesn't deserve to be impeached, He doesn't deserve to be removed, He deserves to be in a supermax prison for being the kingpin allowing the greatest human trafficking ever seen. Meanwhile, the left doesn't care about this. They love it. They're telling us we need reparations of 800 billion for black people in California alone. that would bankrupt the state for 100 years, as if they're ever really going to give black people 800 billion people or a billion dollars or any of this. It's all made up. All right, ladies and gentlemen, go ahead and roll a short clip of Ted Cruz. What are these wristbands? I don't know what they are. You don't know what they are, Mr Secretary. you have just testified to the American people. you're incompetent at your job, because I've been to the southern border and if you go to the southern border, along the southern border, you see thousands of these wristbands because the illegal immigrants wear them. The drug cartels. every color corresponds to how many thousands of dollars they owe the cartels. You've turned these cartels into multi-billion dollar criminal organizations and these are modern day leg irons, because these are children being sold into sex slavery and you don't even know what they are. That is astonishing, Mr Secretary. how many children have been sold into sex slavery under your administration? Senator, we are taking it to the cartels. How many children have been sold into sex slavery? Do you know? how many children have been sold into sex slavery To an unprecedented degree? Mr Secretary, I want to say to you right now: Your behavior is disgraceful and the deaths, the children assaulted, the children raped, they are at your feet and if you had integrity, you would resign and I will tell you the men and women of the border patrol: they've never had a political leader undermine them. They despise you, Mr Secretary, because you're willing to let children be raped to follow political orders. This is a crisis, It's a disgrace, and you won't even admit this human tragedy is a crisis Claiming one minute chairman time. Mr Secretary, would you like to respond to any of those questions? What the Senator said was revolting. I'm not going to address it. Your refusal to do your job is revolting. See the full exchange at Infowarscom. Now, how obscene is it to say we've got to give the state and psychologists and the schools access to children to convince them they're in other sex and then mutilate them sexually and then accept mass shooters because we weren't nice to the transgender people and didn't accept their agenda? and then we've got stuff like this right here from the Associated Press: Reparations for black Californians could top $800 billion. Oh, remember Biden said he'd give everybody free education and forgive all the student loans Soon as he got elected. Oh sorry, You don't get that now. They're not going to give black people reparations. Look at the Democrat run cities. They're hell holes. They just dangle this imaginary lie out there as if California has $800 billion. California is collapsing but as things collapse, they just oh, look, look, you get $800 billion, While there are mainly Hispanic little darling children kidnapped all over Latin America and sold into sex slavery. and there's not even any surveillance on this and the FBI, is told, don't even look into it and the reports we've gotten is it's in the hundreds of thousands of sex slaves. But don't worry, the moral democrats, ladies and gentlemen, they are upset about digital blackface. CNN and others are promoting it, saying no white person can share an article or a video of a black person or a meme with a black person in it. it's blackface. So don't show a black person. if you're a white person, don't show a clip of Chris Rock saying something funny. That's the crime. not cutting children's genitals off, not human trafficking, children into sex slavery, not 100,000 dead a year or more from fentanyl. No, no, no, no. it's the digital blackface. It's the issue, ladies and gentlemen, and it's all sick psychological warfare. and until you're aware of how they're using it, people are wide open to actually believing that the democratic party and the globalists care about black people, when their entire targeting is to abort black people. and Bill Gates is famously saying: we need to depopulate Africa. So they want to cut off the resources to Africans and kill them and give them injections that poison them and everybody else as well. but they love you and they're going to give you $800 million in California alone, While we're all losing our rights, while we're all being surveilled, while we're all being censored, while we're all being fried with 5G, while we're all having our energy cut off, while we're all having our dollar devalued, while we're all being bombarded by anti-family, anti-God, pedophilic crap. and you don't have to search around to find horrible streets full of drug addicts and fentanyl heads and human feces. It's everywhere, No matter what big town or city you go to, it's everywhere. And George Soros defunding the police and allowing massive crime rates to explode, while he has armed bodyguards but wants your guns. They're at war with us, They're depopulationists, They're pedophiles, They're Satanists And we have to reject everything they're pushing and everything they're saying and everything they're doing. Now, big developments on the S686 front and more on the other side. then some victories and then the incredibly dangerous developments with the dollar worldwide. as the world moves away from the dollar and Russia and China rise. Be right back The most banned man in America, Alex Jones. I want you all to know something: Alex Jones was right. Alex is right about far more things wrong. Alex has been right on for over a decade. I don't care how you slice it- dice it, flip it up or rub it down- Alex Jones was right. Think about how frustrated we are if you've been awake for a year or two. Imagine being like an Alex Jones or those guys who've been awake for like decades. Alex Jones called this years ago, Years ago. Alex Jones never bought the Russia hoax- not for a second. You are one of the great thinkers of this. You are a martyr to the First Amendment. The government fears Alex Jones. That's why the globalists hate me is because I'm exposing their corporate worldwide tyranny. Infowars, tomorrow's news, today. This is their big move. So yeah, you say, why doesn't Biden address the disasters in the United States? He doesn't care. That's not his job. He's not the president of the United States, He's a puppet operating for the globalists. Appetites of the autocrat cannot be appeased. They must be opposed. Autocrats only understand one word: No, no, no, Exactly. And that's why we say no to your vaccines. We say no to you shutting down our businesses. We say no to you taking our firearms. We say no to you censoring our free speech. We say no to you selling us out to the World Health Organization. We say no to you getting us into World War Three. You're right. We stand against autocrats like you, Joe Biden, and we say no. And we say no to your war. Every time I talk to you, you're either like on the border exposing the cartels and like coming under fire, or you're on the streets of some American city hanging out with drug addicts and criminals. And now you've gone to ground zero of a massive chemical spill. Are you addicted to the danger, Savannah? Have you ever considered that for a second? No, I'm addicted to helping my fellow Americans. I'm addicted to spreading the truth And again, you know I have Infowars to thank for that. Looking back on the day, I was able to ask President Donald Trump two questions. I was so grateful because, you know, I truly was classically trained under Alex Jones and under the Infowars team. I really do credit that as to why I'm able to, you know, get these types of clips, Because Alex's whole mentality was, you know, go where the story is, go where the mainstream media refuses to. So it's not that I'm addicted to the insanity. I'm just addicted to telling the truth and helping the American people And I really do credit Alex for, you know, really instilling that within me early on in my career. I'm a huge believer in information. I watch Infowars every day and follow Alex Jones closely. You know why. He can put you ahead of the curve And he's been demonized as a conspiracy theorist. Think about how frustrated we are if you've been awake for a year or two. Imagine being like an Alex Jones or those guys who've been awake for like decades. Alex has been right on for over a decade. This is reality. Truth is stranger than fiction. The revolution of peaceful information is coming And when it comes time, you people are going to be brought to punishment. You're lying to the public. It's disgusting. The media continues to misrepresent what I've said. He may be America's best-known conspiracy theorist. Alex Jones has the largest audience in the country, bigger than any of the networks, the biggest megaphone in the country. We're going to get fired up about the real things, the things that matter. Burning hell, New World Order. Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones, The New World Order. All right, we are loaded up with critical information. in the second hour it's all coming up. I want to talk about S686, that is a total AI takeover of all computers. 20 years in prison if you use a virtual browser VPN. 20 years in prison if you quote share. anything that Deep State says is disinformation. Senator Josh Hawley has come out and introduced his own bill. that got blocked bipartisanly because they don't want to get rid of TikTok, they want to bring in S686.. He's introduced a different bill and here he is talking about it. We should act decisively to ban TikTok directly. We shouldn't give new open-ended authority to federal bureaucrats. We should target this threat specifically. That's what this bill does that we have before us today. It goes right at the problem. It bans TikTok in this country, it protects the American people and it sends the message to Communist China that you cannot buy us. And in the full video that's up on Infowarscom he goes on for a long time, like 15 minutes, explaining: they read your keystrokes, they break into your files, they get your emails. but Senator Paul says: but that's what the rest of big tech does. Don't think they don't Come out, they do. So I get his point: reform the whole thing or have the public become aware as consumers and file lawsuits and don't agree with this. Now it's true, TikTok doesn't even let you opt out of it, but it's come out with Google and Facebook. that's meta now and all of it- that they don't let you opt out. You think you opt out? they're still tracking your location. I remember hearings 20 years ago, 10 years ago- I was at them three, four years ago with Sundar Pichai, confronted him and he went in there and testified: we don't track your location. That is a lie and they know it. And a lot of this is Congress playing dumb because most of them are on the payroll of Big Tech. So here's some of what Senator Paul had to say in response. Is there an objection? Madam President, Senator from Kentucky, Reserving the right to object, There are two main reasons why we might not want to do this. The one would be the First Amendment to the Constitution: Speech is protected, whether you like it or not. The second reason would be is that the Constitution actually prohibits bills of attainder. You're not allowed to have a specific bill against a person or a company. So this fails on two egregious points, pretty obvious points, and I think we ought to think about that. I think we should beware of those who peddle fear. I think we should beware of those who use fear to coax Americans to relinquish our liberties, to regulate and limit our First Amendment rights. Every accusation of data gathering that's been attributed to TikTok could also be attributed to domestic Big Tech companies. In fact, one of the bills they're looking at doing is broad enough that the President will be given the power to designate whatever country he sees fit to be an adversary and whatever company underneath that definition. It would basically be a limitless authority for the President to ban speech. If Republicans want to continuously lose elections for a generation, they should pass this bill to ban TikTok, a social media app used by 150 million people, primarily young Americans. This brilliant strategy comes while polls indicate that 71% of young women and men, 53% of young men, voted for a Democrat candidate for Congress. Admittedly, many Democrats have joined Republicans in calling for this ban, but, like most issues, the blame will stick to the Republicans more. The Republican's strategy to ban TikTok comes simultaneously with GOP complaints of domestic social media companies canceling and censoring conservatives. Without a hint of irony, many of these same conservatives now rail against censorship, while advocating for censorship against social media apps they worry are influenced by the Chinese. Before banning TikTok, these censors might want to discover that China already bans TikTok. Hmm, Do we really want to emulate Chinese speech bans? Aren't we the ones that say it's wrong for China to ban speech? so we're going to be just like China and ban speech we're afraid of? The Vice President of FreedomWorks, John Tamney, perhaps described this situation best: Nauseating. harassment of TikTok presumes Americans will be saved from Chinese authoritarianism if US politicians act like Chinese authoritarians. We're going to be saved from speech if we ban it in our country. My goodness, could we think of anything more antithetical to the freedom of speech? Well, go to the app. they say: oh, the app's full of propaganda and your young people will be dancing into communism. Well, go to the app and search for Falun Gong, the anti-communist religious sect that is persecuted in China. Go to TikTok and search for videos advocating Taiwan's independence, criticism of Chinese President Xi Jinping. Videos are all over TikTok that are critical of official Chinese positions. That's why TikTok is banned in China. Do we want to follow China's lead in banning speech? We should not let fear of communism to cause us to ignore our First Amendment: protections of speech. All right, that's enough. It's a really good 30-minute debate. That's just part of what Senator Paul said. He's right. Josh Hawley, who I really like, is wrong. But this is not the main bill and this is not the bill that's close to passing. It's S-686. that does nothing about TikTok and does everything about total control of our lives and legalizing all the illegal censorship and surveillance and 20-year jail terms if the federal government designates something- disinformation. And Paul's right that China has banned TikTok, but not because they don't run it. They run it and it is a weaponized system spying on us and it's doing all the things they say it does. okay, That's on record. You don't aim a cannon at your enemy and then stick your troops out in front of it to get hit in friendly fire. It's like: well, you know China has banned TikTok. They've banned it for the domestic groups to be able to watch it. but you can go pull up videos at night because the students are so cheap, I get it. They're so poor. They go out under the streetlights by the thousands lining the highways and bridges doing their TikTok videos for foreign markets. So it's a weapon system to demoralize and brainwash and surveil and addict and control. But that's the same thing with Facebook. It's the same thing that Twitter was designed to do. Now they're not as successful as TikTok and that's why the globalists are pissed is because it doesn't just have two million users. Facebook peaked in the last couple of years and it's going down. It's been around 13,, 14 years. But when you look at TikTok, it is still growing exponentially. So what's really going on is the deep state doesn't control TikTok. It knows it's doing all the same things they're doing and they want to get rid of their competition, their tyrannical competition. they're going after another predatory group and then using that as the pretext with 686, it's very close to passing. Then you've got other bills, like the one Cruz has introduced. that's close to passing. They say it is going to pass- already passed. the House is in the Senate, came out of the Senate, went to the House, is back in the Senate, coming out of committee, And it talks about not letting people surveil you and have cameras and microphones in your home, devices that you don't know are watching you. but it's got bad stuff in it as well. So in the name of protecting us, just like the Patriot Act and all the rest of it, we're being targeted, having our rights taken. All right, next hour I'm going to get into the left going completely insane right now in Tennessee, in Kentucky, invading the capitals because they want access to brainwashed little kids to sterilize them. We've got the big Ukraine news, the dollar news and so much more. Roger Stone joins us 15 minutes to the next hour to talk all the different political developments and the Trump arrest watch and all the rest of what's going on. Please remember the number one most important thing you can do in the information war is to pick shows you think are the most informative and doing the best work, And I humbly believe Tucker Carlson and Infowars are the best. Steven Crowder does a great job. so does Tim Pool. Rogan's getting better and better. That's great, but I just humbly think- and the globalists admit this in their own internal papers that have leaked- that they believe I'm the worst, that they believe this show and our guest and what we do is the most informative and damaging to them. And I know that's true because my worldview and understanding of things has been adopted by the resistance movement worldwide And that's all. glory goes to God and then to our crew and the guests and this whole family. that's Infowars. I'm just a small part of it. But I ask you to realize you're in a war of information and you're a soldier on the front lines and everything the enemy wants to do is based on you not realizing how much power you've got and you not sharing articles and videos and taking clips out of the show and putting it on Rumble and putting it on Instagram and putting it on Twitter and putting it on Facebook and showing it to your church or doing your own report. Whatever you do- or shoot video of your preacher you think is informative and you put it on YouTube. whether it's 100 views or 10,000, the point is all of you will never know how much success you're going to have unless you engage in it. So share BannedVideo Infowarscom- Those links get blocked most places- so share the URL that takes you to BannedVideo- It's not being blocked right now and that's MadMaxWorldtv- and continue to support us at Infowarscom, where we have amazing products that really will empower your life. We'll be right back with hour number two. Please stay with us. The fight against the new world order is now the top story in the world. The globalists are in deep trouble, but they're striking back with all their deep state operatives to shut down Infowars and other truth tellers, like James O'Keefe and Tucker Carlson and countless others. So please pray for us now more than ever. spread the word about the broadcast and get great products to keep us on air and fund our operation while at the same time enriching your life. We've got three new products available at InfowarsStorecom and a best seller back at stock. We have the amazing Dr Jones Naturals turmeric toothpaste. that's so much more. Find out more at InfowarsStorecom. We have the ashwagandha root pills with black powder extract to accelerate your libido, stamina, testosterone, And we have pure ashwagandha gummies at InfowarsStorecom as well. These are all the highest quality products. The prebiotic is now finally back at stock. They're all there at InfowarsStorecom. so please take action now. Enrich your life, empower your body and keep us on air. Please take action now. InfowarsStorecom: Right now I'm not talking to the viewers and listeners that have gone to InfowarsStorecom and gotten the great products that enrich your life, that empower your immune system and your body and keep us on air. I am humbly, hand in hand, talking to the viewers and listeners that have tuned in, many of you for years and never gone to InfowarsStorecom. We know the vast, vast, vast, vast majority of you never actually go to InfowarsStorecom and never experience these great products and never find the operation. Sure, you share a link, you share an article, you tell folks about the show. that's great and I thank you, But we need funds to operate. plus, we've got really great products that do amazing things for people, like our CBD oil and our fizzy magnesium and our sleep aid and our nitric oxide and our Real Red Pill Plus. All of these are really great products that keep us on air. plus, you're missing out on having these products. Get off the bench, get in the game, step to the plate and go to InfowarsStorecom right now and get these great Infowars products at InfowarsStorecom. Alright, John Bown was on with us yesterday, our great investigative journalist on the 686 bill, the RESTRICT Act. It's over a five minute report. we won't air the whole thing. it's very important. it's at Bandot Video. I'm having it posted. it is posted the front page of Infowarscom. it just went live ten minutes ago. The RESTRICT Act is pure treason. here's part of the report. then I'll come back and break all the latest news. Is Senator Lindsey Graham a liar or incompetent, or both? You gotta be kidding me, Senator. Did you read this? Yeah, I don't think I support the RESTRICT Act. You don't support this because you were named as one of the supporters, because this is garbage. Is this the one? there's two bills out there. one allows a review of businesses that are connected to China. gives the secretary the ability to protect their data. Is that the RESTRICT Act? Sure, congressional staffers get legislation co-sponsored with a rubber stamp all the time as senators line their pockets over lunch with lobbyists. but hours before Graham appeared on Jesse Waters, the news had broken on the treasonous RESTRICT Act, deceptively presented by its supposed author, Virginia Democrat Senator Mark Warner, that Graham and 11 Democrats and 10 other Republicans co-sponsored. The problem is real with China, but the solution can be more damaging than the problem is sort of what you're telling me. I agree. you know, don't push back on the United States citizens for something China's doing. I totally get that. and constitutionally we can't do all the things you just said. The language in the bill reads like a George Orwell novel: crushing the first and fourth amendments with double speak aimed at foreign adversaries, while awarding sweeping powers to Biden's secretary of commerce to set in motion the rounding up of those standing in the way of the compromised Biden administration's new world order directives. To be clear, I'm not a lawyer. I'm not a lawyer, I am a MacBook repairman, and I am pulling this out of my ass at one in the morning in a chair that got scratched up by a cat. But it is the purpose of this act to provide the public with such information while protecting the rights of individuals and the ability of the government to carry out its responsibilities. So what it's saying is that this act is not subject to section 551, 553 through 559 and section 701 through 707 of Title 5 United States Code, aka freedom of information requests. We have laws that have been passed to try and limit the influence that lobbyists and corporations have over our government. Those do not apply to this. We have laws that allow the citizens of the country to be able to ask for information from their government regarding decision making processes, to be able to get access to documents and things that you know they kind of paid for as taxpayers, to understand how the government is making the decisions, And that doesn't apply here either. Covered transaction means a transaction which an entity describes in subparagraph B as any interest, including through an interest in a contract or the provision of technology or service or any such class of transactions. It's like a covered transaction in this case could literally be that you host a website. Are you undermining a democratic institution or are you just saying something that is counter to the narrative that's currently being said? This is scary and we have enough information. we are, at any time that is politically charged enough that you bet your ass that this is going to be misused, Unleashing enforcement by an AI driven surveillance state, while, by seeming coincidence, major banks continue to fall like dominoes to the coming digital currency maelstrom. As Congress continues its theater of combating Chinese data harvesting, the architecture of the American surveillance state is set in stone. WikiLeaks published the CIA's Vault 7 documents back in 2017, detailing the malware tools developed by the agency's operations support branch to compromise smart devices, operating systems, most web browsers and smartphones, While the artificial intelligence poised to police those who seek the truth is so far advanced that tech leaders are now calling to pause AI development because it poses too big a threat. Currently, the Restrict Act and a similar bill policing election interference in the House, known as the Data Act, have barely met any resistance. If the bills pass, a 21st century cyber Stasi will be given carte blanche to infiltrate any form of internet technology deemed fit, silencing and imprisoning dissent in jackbooted situations that will make Ruby Ridge and Waco look antiquated. I told Randy I said you don't really understand what the full weight and power of this government is and what it would really mean if you want a confrontation with it. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a new toothpaste that my dad, a retired dentist and oral surgeon, developed- Dr Jones Natural's tumor toothpaste. that just came into stock And I got to tell you I got samples of this months ago and it is amazing. The way it makes your gums feel. what it does to your mouth is insane. We know turmeric is an antioxidant and anti-inflammatory and does such great things to the body. Then you add that with tea tree oil and a bunch of other essential oils, it is just dynamite. It is so good to detox and attack inflammation in your mouth. I want to challenge everybody to try the new toothpaste at infoworkstorecom- Dr Jones Natural's turmeric toothpaste. And, while you're at it, check out the new Ashwagandha line of products. We have Ashwagandha with black pepper extract for your libido, your testosterone, in pill form, and we have the pure Ashwagandha root gummies as well, now available at infoworkstorecom. They're amazing products and they fund the Info War. Take action now at infoworkstorecom From Austin, Texas. it's Alex Jones. Well, there is some really good news, I can tell you in the shower. There is a massive Republican backlash now against S-686. that was very close to passing- To not shut down TikTok, but to have AI surveillance grids and Obama's Ministry of Truth and disinformation board. that's already been set up- put you in jail for 20 years. Maybe you use a VPN, or they say you've engaged in disinformation. No due process, nothing. The bill is in deep trouble right now, when we just started to learn what was happening late last week. So we're not done yet as long as we have independent analysts in free speech to expose it. And that's why this operation is so important. It's why your voice is so paramount and critical. And if you read the internal globalist documents that have come out in the last year in these hearings, they're obsessed with people with a hundred followers on Twitter. They're obsessed with people with 200 followers on Facebook. They're obsessed with YouTubers that have a thousand views on average because they can track that, no matter what they do- to the big operations like an Alex Jones or a Steven Crowder or Tucker Carlson. it's the millions of little accounts that, even if we don't find out about something you find out about it first. You've got power, use it or be destroyed. And I'm here to try to get it through your heads. people do not call in and thank me and tell me how great I am. I'm in the very same boat as you are under globalist attack. We're in the same boat. So if we're in a lifeboat that's got a hole in it and I'm trying to fix the leak and I'm asking you to bail water with me and roll your sleeves up with me. and you see me bailing water. don't tell me I'm a damn hero Or this damn boat's going to sink. we're going to drown. I'm no damn hero. This isn't some heroic action. If you walk outside a grocery store and you see three thugs beating up an old woman, You walk up and you punch the first one right back in the back of the head. The next one, you left hook right up under their jaw. When the next one takes a swing at you, your head, butt his ass. Just beat their ass. Not a damn hero. You're designed to stop that son of a bitch in the ground. It's gonna feel good. Now I use the allegory of violence because information is violence, War is information, And they're far beyond beating up some old lady in a parking lot, But they trained us as a culture. You call 911 and I'm not against the police, but the law will tell you it's not the police job to protect you. It's their job to respond, to take you to jail, to face a jury and the people. And so thinking Alex Jones is going to fix something is like thinking the cops are going to fix it. We're all going to fix it together And you are just as important as I am, or as Joe Rogan or as Tucker Carlson. In fact, there's a lot more of you than us. so I'm going to say this: you're more important. Just like in V for Vendetta. He says: if you want to know who's really responsible for this tyranny we're living under, all you need to do is look in the mirror. Yes, there are those that are more responsible and they will be held accountable. If you want to know who's really at fault, just look in the mirror, And I don't say that from some high horse. God knows I make bad decisions. God knows I don't fight as hard as I should. God knows I make bad decisions. All right, let's do this, because I'm running out of time and gosh, there's so much. I want to get back into the trans cult because a really smart guy that I watch every time I can- I'm banned on Twitter but I go into his site on a weekly basis- We should get him on as a guest. Malcolm Flex really knows what he's talking about at a deep level And here's just one of his short clips where he explains that you can think you're in Black Lives Matter, you can think you're in the trans movement, but you're in a psychological warfare, brainwash cult on record. She can pretend all day you're not being brainwashed, but you are, And those of us opposing it can think, oh, we're just fighting a bunch of idiots. That's the ground level of the zombies. The people on top know what they're doing And the only way to reach out to these folks is to show them you're miserable because you were put in a psychological dungeon where the trick is they make you get deeper in the cult, thinking you get better, but as you get deeper and only gets more destructive. Here's a few minutes of what he had to say about it. So I get the visceral gut reaction to a lot of what's gone on in the past couple of days. However, one thing that I don't get is why we are exactly empowering a lot of the psychosis and, if not, fueling it. Now let me explain what I mean. The reason why you have these trans activists basically calling for a day of vengeance and you have people essentially taking up arms now that fly under the LBGTQIA2 plus whatever that is- flag, is because you have this prevailing narrative by the media powers, the Machiavellian shitlords that be that says: hey, everybody wants to kill trans people, Everybody wants to kill LBGTQ people. Your rights are being taken away and these people are bombarded with this day in and day out, Not only from the outside sources like the media, but also from their influencers, who basically come online and say the same thing verbatim and cite misused statistics and basically put it out there into the environment. One of the issues is that now you have people on the right who are seizing upon this, who are basically going the route of: okay, we're going to say that these trans people are nuts and we need to do something about them. and while, yes, I think that gender dysphoria is a topic that we need to tackle and the mental health institutions need to become more than just glorified psychoactive drug slingers, it does not need to become one of these situations where we have hard legislation because Congress screws everything up that they touch. Furthermore, when you start doing that, you start getting the pearl clutches and people wringing their hands, wanting something to be done which results in actual action. that validates the paranoid psychosis that trans people are already experiencing. and no, I'm not talking about all trans people, but I'm talking about the trans people who believe that somebody's out to kill them. Do you really want to do that? Because what you do is you create a self-fulfilling prophecy in which they think somebody's out to kill them. You basically radicalize some people who believe that trans people think this and that they're going to try to kill them first, and now you have people actually out to try and kill trans people. Let me break this down to you, though. Part of the reason why you see a lot of violence against, let's say, female to male or not even female to male, male to female- trans people- See how confusing that is and you expect us to get pronouns right, come on. But part of the reason why a lot of this violence happens is because you have these trans people engaged in sex work. a lot of them get into pornography. a lot of them get into prostitution. a lot of them are doing out calls and meet ups with people, and these people who are already engaged in these industries, let's just say they're not the best of people. So what's stopping these people from meeting somebody, kidnapping and killing just because they're a scummy person that also likes to have you know, also likes to have steamy encounters with trans people? That's not good, but that is why the trans death rate for male to female trans people is so high. It's not because you have, you know, Joe Blow out in Alabama who's like: come on, boys, let's go kill some of them- shrimp arils. It's not because you have them taking some streets and doing it. it's because the inherent situations that most of these people who, let's be honest, typically if somebody's suffering from gender dysphoria. There's a couple more minutes left of this when I put the rebroadcast up, but we'll put everything he said in, but I want to get him on as a guest. He's dead on. everything he's saying is absolutely true and I said this last hour. I got some good news. There were hysterias all over the country. There was mass shootings happening yesterday and it was just brainwashing and I said I hope the situation in North Carolina at this technical college is a false alarm. It was a false alarm. An active shooter was reported by school authorities in Winston-Salem before police said there was none. So that is some good news there. but the wicked flee when none pursue. All right, we're going to go to break. We're going to come back with Roger Stone to cover all the latest political developments in the country and more, And then the amazing Drew Hernandez will be with us in the third hour and the informative Paul Joseph Watson on some big resistance movements forming the 15 minute cities and the extinction rebellion cult. It's all part of the same movement. We'll be back with Roger Stone in just a few minutes. If Alex Jones runs for president in the Republican Party, he has a chance of winning. If you just tuned in, you may be noticing I'm wearing an Alex Jones for president 2024 shirt. I am not seriously planning to run for president. This is an idea the crew had: Have a triggering shirt, kind of next level. Alex Jones was right As InfoWarscom in the back, Alex Jones for president 2024 on the front. It's a fundraiser shirt. It's made out of really nice fabric, It's high quality and it is a exclusive shirt to InfoWarsStorecom. and when the shirts are gone, they're gone. We're doing one run of Alex Jones for president 2024 shirts and we'll have a historic memento and be able to spread the word and meet a lot of like-minded people and he will be able to keep us on the air. No way, No way. That's a bridge too far. No, it can't be. and I said on national television that he was going to win at InfoWarsStorecom. We now have three new game-changing products that are in stock at InfoWarsStorecom and one of our best-selling products sold out for over a year, that's now back at stock. Our prebiotic does eat any introduction with such amazing things for your gut flora, your overall health. What it does is essential to read about at InfoWarsStorecom. and now the fourth, toothpaste is I'm My Dad. The last two were big hits. This one is really special. It's turmeric concentrate with a bunch of other essential oils and so much more to take your mouth's health to the next level. We also have high-quality ashwagandha root for your libido, your stamina, your testosterone, with black pepper extract to accelerate it as a pill. and we have ashwagandha root gummies as well- Very strong, very powerful- Now in stock at InfoWarsStorecom. Go there, experience these great products and others, and fund the InfoWars. The only way we fail is not taking action. God bless you. Now, please visit InfoWarsStorecom and experience these powerful products for yourself. I'm a huge believer in information. I watch InfoWars every day and follow Alex Jones closely. You know why. He can put you ahead of the curve and he's been demonized as a conspiracy theorist. Think about how frustrated we are. if you've been awake for a year or two. Imagine being like an Alex Jones or those guys who've been awake for like decades. Alex has been right on for over a decade. This is reality. It just can't be. Truth is stranger than fiction. The revolution of peaceful information is coming and when it comes time, you people are going to be brought to punish. You're lying to the public. It's disgusting. The media continues to misrepresent what I've said. He may be America's best-known conspiracy theorist. Alex Jones has the largest audience in the country, bigger than any of the networks, the biggest megaphone in the country. We're going to get fired up about the real things, the things that matter. Burning hell, New World Order. I've got some good news. Our high-quality supplements really work and we have about an 80% reorder rate with customers. That's the good news. They're amazing. The bad news is around 1% or a little less of our actual viewers and listeners ever go to InfowarStorecom and ever actually buy the products. So you're missing out on these products. plus, it funds the Infowar. Think of what we've done with just 1% of our massive audience actually buying products. Think what would happen if those of you on the fence actually went to InfowarStorecom and got some of these amazing products. I would recommend turmeric 95 for your joints, your bones, inflammation, to get one of the biggest effects, so you reorder and see how great it is. Also, we've got the super high-quality full spectrum CBD oil that's so good for your neurological systems, your brain, your joints, your bones as well, Or Real Red Bull Plus. Just go, try the product, fund the Infowar and help us defeat the New World Order together. InfowarStorecom. Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. It's Alex Jones. Welcome back. ladies and gentlemen. The great Roger Stone, the political analyst that got President Trump to run, the guy that's got the inside scoop in baseball on what's really happening, joins us for the balance of the hour here on this Thursday edition of the Alex Jones Show. He's about to give you the 35,000 foot historical view on what's really happening. They're now saying that the grand jury, because of the pressure put on it, the political nature of it, the Soros control, is now taking a month-long hiatus. They're now saying it's completely normal but really wasn't going to be happening. But I don't think they'll give up on Trump and so Roger's got a lot on that. He wants to get into the culture, wars and the transgender out-recruiting children. Now the Democrats have forged into the tip of their spear more on Hunter Biden's laptop and so much more on the political climate, Not just here but in the world, with the great Roger Stone. Roger, great to have you here from thestonezonecom. Alex, great to be back with you. Of course, when I'm at Infowars I always feel like I'm back home. It's great to be here. Well, let's dive into it. Look, I think it would be a mistake to assume that the prosecutors in New York, who are completely and totally politically motivated, despite the thinness of their case, have given up in their efforts. I think the president's made a very good decision to go on offense. He himself revealed the fact that he was in danger. That, I think, brought an enormous amount of scrutiny on the prosecution, particularly brought scrutiny on Soros-funded prosecutor Alvin Bragg's chief unreliable witness, Michael Cohen, who has a long history of contradicting himself under oath on many, many major questions, And it's very clear that Bragg's entire case relies on him. But, Alex, I do think the whole thing has to be put in historical perspective. You have this threat in New York. You have this threat in Fulton County, Georgia, where, if anyone will stop and listen to the entire transcript of the conversation between Donald Trump and the Secretary of State, he does not tell him to go find 11,870 votes. He argues that more than 11,870 illegal- easily definable illegal- votes have been cast, thus flipping the state. But that would take a complete reading And we now know that's true. And we now know that's true. That is accurate. Now you have also the decision by the DC Appeals Court that Vice President Pence and White House Chief of Staff, Mark Meadows, a national security adviser, John Radcliffe, his deputy, Robert O'Brien, and others are compelled to testify for Jack Smith's grand jury looking into January 6th. Executive privilege does not exist for Republican presidents, But here is- here, I think, is the is the context. All of these things are designed to avoid having to face Donald Trump in a general election. The deep state, the Biden regime, their handmaidens in the legacy media know that Trump is a powerhouse, that he is gaining strength and they want to eliminate him as a contender through this series of legal processes. But let's look at the historical perspective. It was only when John F Kennedy was betrayed by the CIA at the Bay of Pigs- and he said that he would smash the agency into a million pieces and scattered them to the wind- that he was assassinated. This is little known, but it's in his own biography, as well as the biography of his chief of staff, HR Haldeman. immediately after his stunning landslide election in 1972.. Richard Nixon intended to completely reorganize the government and dismantle the Central Intelligence Agency and the other secret society dominated intelligence agencies. He was removed in a silent coup. On March 16th 2023, Donald Trump said in a video that he not only called for peace in Ukraine, calling for an immediate secession of hostilities and saying that his single highest priority as president would be to avoid World War III, but more precisely, he calls for- quote- the dismantlement of the entire globalist, neo-con establishment, which is perpetually dragging us into endless wars, pretending to fight for freedom, democracy abroad, while they turn this country into a third world country and a third world dictatorship. The State Department, the defense bureaucracy, the intelligence services and all of the rest need to be completely overhauled and reconstituted to fire the deep staters and put America first people in charge. There you have it, Alex. That is the line in the sand. That is the declaration of war on the two party neo-con duopoly that is destroying this country both abroad and at home, And that is why they are determined to use a corrupted judicial system at both the state and federal level to destroy Donald Trump. So for those who correctly see that the president going on offense, expose the weakness and political nature of what Alvin Bragg is up to in Manhattan and presumably he will also take the offense regarding Georgia- don't pop the champagne corks quite yet, in my opinion. I agree They've only done a timeout because they thought Trump would just take their abuse. But you have Alvin Bragg running like Letitia James on arresting Trump. So you run and then say: I'm going to get elected so I can put you in jail. It turns out the actual prosecutor is in more of a raving, lunatic Big article here. It says that Alvin Bragg's chief assistant district attorney, who has run the office, is a raging Trump hater and proud of it. I mean, these guys are ridiculous. Then you have the backdrop of all their over-the-top corruption that is real and palpable. What does it say about the fact that they thought they'd go ahead with the indictment, told the Secret Service it was coming, put up all the riot police and fences around the courthouse and now have backed off? I mean, I agree with you, I don't think that they're going to stop. but what does it say about them getting some inkling of the fact that this supercharged Trump? Don't they get that? they've been put into either way. it's a pyrrhic victory for them. I mean, they basically can't win unless Trump just backs down. Just to show you that great minds think the exact same way, I was about to bring up the same great article in the Gateway Pundit here regarding the number two in Alvin Bragg's office. Look, I've had my own personal experience with Michael Cohen, who is the chief witness in this case. Michael Cohen testified before both houses of Congress saying that in 2016,, he overheard a telephone conversation between me and candidate Trump in which I apprised Trump of the coming WikiLeaks disclosures. I've passed three polygraph tests in this question. It is a lie. There's no telephone record to support this claim by Cohen, The woman secretary who came into the room and said: Mr Trump, Roger Stone is on line one. She has no memory of it. And, more importantly, Cohen changed his story about when this happened. First he said it happened before the Democratic Convention in 2016.. Then he said it happened before the Republican Convention in 2016,, which was almost a month later. I can tell you exactly when it happened, Alex. It never happened. It is a lie. When he learned that Julian Assange was being extradited, Cohen actually went up on his Twitter and said: good, now we can question Assange, and I can prove that what I said about Stone and he is correct. I would welcome such testimony. This guy is a congenital liar. Well, no, I think we know that. So when we come back, what do they do next? People always want to know what's coming next, so do I. What are they going to do now? Because they're on their heels. We're on our toes. We'll be right back with Roger Stone, The most banned man in America, Alex Jones. I want you all to know something: Alex Jones was right. Alex is right about far more things wrong. Alex has been right on toward over a decade. I don't care how you slice it, dice it, flip it up or rub it down. Alex Jones was right. Think about how frustrated we are. if you've been awake for a year or two. Imagine being like an Alex Jones or those guys who've been awake for like decades. Alex Jones called this years ago. years ago, Alex Jones never bought the Russia hoax- not for a second. You are one of the great thinkers of this. You are a martyr to the First Amendment. The government fears Alex Jones. That's why the globalists hate me is because I'm exposing their corporate worldwide tyranny. The fight against the New World Order is now the top story in the world. The globalists are in deep trouble, but they're striking back with all their deep state operatives to shut down info wars and other truth tellers like James O'Keefe, Tucker Carlson and countless others. So please pray for us now more than ever. Spread the word about the broadcast and get great products to keep us on air and fund our operation while at the same time enriching your life. Now we've got three new products available at InfoWarsStorecom and a best seller back at stock. We have the amazing Dr Jones Naturals turmeric toothpaste. That's so much more. Find out more at InfoWarsStorecom. We have the ashwagandha root pills with black powder extract to accelerate your libido, stamina, testosterone. We have pure ashwagandha gummies at InfoWarsStorecom as well. These are all the highest quality products. The prebiotic is now finally back at stock. They're all there at InfoWarsStorecom. So please take action now. Enrich your life, Empower your body and keep us on air. Please take action now, InfoWarsStorecom. Ladies and gentlemen, this book, The Great Reset in the War for the World, is a historic book that documents the globalists, in their own words, planned for our future. That is a hellish future. Now you'll be always- while they still allow books- I guess they're starting to ban them- be able to get an unsigned copy of The Great Reset in the War for the World at bookstores, Amazon or InfoWarsStorecom. But you will never be able to get another signed copy of the book after the signed copies we got run out And there's about a thousand left of them right now. So get your copy of The Great Reset in the War for the World, a signed copy at InfoWarsStorecom- And there is a markup there because this is a fundraiser to keep us on the air. So you won't just have this historic memento and this powerful book, you'll also know that you helped keep InfoWars on the air. I want to thank those of you that have gotten signed copies of the book or unsigned copies. I want to encourage all of you who haven't yet to go to InfoWarsStorecom and get a signed copy and buy a couple of unsigned copies and donate to the library or give them to the local school. This is an InfoWar. I'm counting on you and thank you for your support. US liberty had just been attacked by Israeli jets and torpedo boats. The CIA could manipulate the news in the United States. They took the babies out of AC bears and left the children to die on the cold floor. It was almost as if it were a plan in full. It just can't end. We need to go into the Capitol. You will always have conspiracy theories. They are nothing but distractions. You guys censored Harvard, educated doctors. You silenced those voices. All I want to do in Davos is push the reset button. As soon as we start exposing the Great Reset, the sooner these globalists start going to prison, Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. It's Alex Jones, The Alex Jones Show, because there is a war on for your mind. If you like to gamble, I tell you, I'm your man. Win some, lose some. it's all a game to me. If you like to gamble, I tell you, I'm your man. You win some, lose some if you're the same to me, But do you know who? I bet on Always Pre-humanity, And I want to be very clear about something here today that millions of people do: Dad, We have God on our side and that is the ace of spades, And I can tell you from where we were 20 years ago to where we are today. we have come light years And evil is now on the defense for the first time in my lifetime. It doesn't mean they're not going to throw everything they've got at us. It doesn't mean that dark times aren't ahead, But the beginning of the end for this phase and this cycle is coming and better times are ahead. It may take 10 years, it may take 20, but God's on our side. Roger, I didn't talk to you before it came on. Do you agree with my assessment that there's a mass awakening happening? What are you seeing on the ground? There is no question about that. Even in the stilted public opinion polls that are sponsored by the mainstream media themselves, the believability of mainstream so-called legacy media is at an all-time low. If you want proof of this, how do you reconcile the fact that Donald Trump has been under extraordinary attack by ABC, NBC, CBS, CNN, MSNBC, The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Wall Street Journal, Associated Press, The Business Insider, While being censored, while being censored, still number one. Meanwhile, in the polls, he shows him at his greatest point of strength in the last six years. I mean, these poll numbers are not tiny, These shifts in the poll numbers are seismic, and it is amazing that there seems to be a direct correlation between the American people recognizing that Donald Trump is being politically persecuted and held to a standard that no other figure in American politics or government is held to, and the amazing rebound in his popularity and his political strength. This is what has the people in the deep state rushing to the drugstore for Kaopectate. They are hysterical. Well, that was my next question, because we don't want to sit here and think: sure, we're winning hearts and minds, but they're not going to give up. So you're a smart guy. How do you think they're going to strike back? Well, here's one important point, and that is Special Counsel Jack Smith is not Robert Mueller. Robert Mueller's investigation, which was a politically motivated witch hunt, leaked like a sieve Every single thing that he was going to do. you read about it days in advance, For example, CNN's story that Robert Mueller had seized my bank records and my IRS records when I was under investigation. Where else could that have come from? By comparison, Jack Smith's- all of his filings in federal court have been sealed. His witness list- other than where he's had to go to court to get testimony because of executive privilege- who he's interviewed is largely secret. We really today have no idea what his timing is, what his game plan is, what specific crimes that he is investigating, crimes that he's investigating because he's had the discipline not to leak- Very, very atypical for the way Washington works. But here, I think, is the most important point, and that is timing. here is everything. If you ask me, what's going to happen next, with the New York grand jury in hiatus for a month, I think, letting things cool down before they move ahead with an indictment, you're now going to see a temporary shift to the shenanigans of Fannie Wills, who is the Soros-funded prosecutor in Fulton County, Georgia. She's a hack, without any question. She also has a weak case, But you're going to see a temporary focus there until it becomes clear what the prosecutor, Jack Smith, who has responsibility both for investigating January 6th as well as the president's handling of certain classified or top secret documents is going to do. Meantime, here's something else that we can look forward to: There will be no prosecution of Hunter Biden. There will be no focus in the media on the new news that the Biden family took over $3 million from Chinese interests. There'll be no investigation of Joe Biden and his activities. Meanwhile, Hunter Biden's lawyers are threatening- that's right, Alex- to sue me. They're threatening to sue me Why? Well, because I've talked about the contents of Hunter Biden's laptop, So I have to fight them. By the way, folks, you can go to stonedefensefundcom to help me in that epic struggle, because I'm not going to be silenced. Anytime Alex Jones asks me to come on Infowars and talk about the disgraceful treason, influence peddling, money laundering, You're going to do it. But I just showed the letter for radio listeners that don't know. We heard this a few weeks ago. They were going to sue you. Now they've officially sent you letters as if you had something to do with Hunter Biden. I've tracked the whole thing. You had nothing to do with Hunter Biden laptop. I mean you'd be proud of it if you did. I mean, what the hell is this? Everything I know about Hunter Biden's laptop. I either read at the New York Post, or I read it: Marco Polo USA dot org. which is a nonprofit which is committed to publishing the truth. I have no reason to believe that any of that publicly Sure. They're just trying to politically distract off to you. Ray Epps is talking about lawsuits even though he told the January 6th committee, he quote, orchestrated it. So let's talk about this, Let's look forward to what the time we have They're going to go ahead with these indictments. They plan to use the DA weak case first to soften things up, to legitimize the other indictments coming. Now they see the opposition as if we couldn't tell him that was going to happen and it wouldn't supercharge Trump to double and triple. You know, I mean 30 points ahead of the Santa's and many polls. So how do you expect this to play out? What's the constitutionality of Trump still running while he's the nominee? Probably obviously. And then the candidate who wins. What is that paradox in the timeframe of this? I think that is the absolutely key point. Alex, you have seized the exact key element of this. Even if Donald Trump were to be charged by special counsel Jack Smith in regard to either January 6th or his handling of certain documents, it's highly unlikely, based on what various lawyers I respect tell me, that that case could get to trial. There's nothing to prevent a US citizen from being nominated and running for president while under indictment. In fact, not all of the alleged crimes against Trump would prevent him from running or being president, although violation, being convicted of violation of the 14th Amendment would preclude you from running for federal office. So I think it is entirely possible, in fact likely at this point, that Donald Trump will be waging a campaign to save this country, a crusade, as it were, a 2024 campaign- while under criminal indictment by a, by a politically motivated prosecutor, And I actually think that is the, the backdrop that virtually insures his election. People can see through this, and I think they do see through this. We've already seen it reflected in the polls. It's only growing stronger. I totally agree. So let me add this point. Now the new talking point is: it's all over the news, all over the enemy propaganda. How do we preclude him from running with indictments? But they can't, according to the Constitution. So why are they still going ahead with it, even though it's going to supercharge him? Then he wins pardons himself. Well, first of all, there may be a misunderstanding. historically. Let's remember Jimmy Carter's advisers. believe it or not, they wanted to run against Ronald Reagan. They thought he would be the weakest candidate. They actually feared Senator Howard Baker. Hillary thought the same thing. She wanted Trump. thought he was the weakest. Hillary wanted Trump, as we know. So the Democrats may believe that, because Trump is polarizing, that he is the easiest candidate for their impaired candidate, Joe Biden, to be. I think that that will turn out to be the same miscalculation that Hillary Clinton made in 2016.. And here is why Trump has an ability to pick up the votes that John McCain and Mitt Romney- and I hate to say it, but Ron DeSantis- could never win. These are not Republicans. These are working class Americans. They're overwhelmingly blue collar. Most of them voted for Barack Obama because they wanted hope and change and they were tired of the Bush regime. And Trump gives hope. All right, stay there. Then let's talk about how this unfolds. Straight ahead, most important part of the discussion: Straight ahead, we're literally telling you the future right now. We now have three new game-changing products that are in stock at InfowarsTourcom, and one of our best-selling products sold out for over a year. that's now back in stock: Our prebiotic. does any introduction to such amazing things for your gut flora, your overall health. What it does is essential. Go read about it at InfowarsTourcom. And now the fourth toothpaste designed by dad, the last of our big hits. this one is really special: It's turmeric concentrate with a bunch of other essential oils and so much more to take your mouth's health to the next level. We also have high-quality ashwagandha root for your libido, your stamina, your testosterone, with black pepper extract to accelerate it as a pill. and we have ashwagandha root gummies as well- Very strong, Very powerful. Now in stock at InfowarsTourcom. Go there, experience these great products and others, and fund the Infowars. The only way we fail is not taking action. God bless you. Please visit InfowarsTourcom and experience these powerful products for yourself. And that's who he works for. Autocrats only understand one word: no, no, no, Exactly. And that's why we say no to your vaccines. we say no to you shutting down our businesses. we say no to you taking our firearms. we say no to you censoring our free speech. we say no to you selling us out to the World Health Organization. we say no to you getting us into World War III. You're right. We stand against autocrats like you, Joe Biden, and we say no, and we say no to your war. I talk a lot about the great successes Infowars has had. I don't think anybody can deny it- And it is because of listeners and viewers supporting us. When we talk about the crew at Infowars- people behind the scenes, the researchers, the writers- they really have been the MVPs in this fight, And when you look at Harrison Smith and Owen Schroyer and the hard work they engage in every day- five, six, seven days a week- it's really just incredible. So for myself and the whole Infowars crew, I thank you for your past support. I only encourage you now to realize that Infowars cannot stay on air if you do not support us. I know you spread the word, I know you pray for us and that's wonderful. keep doing it. But most viewers and listeners never go to InfowarsStorecom and you never buy great products that enrich and empower your life while at the same time keep us on air. I know that less than 1% of our listeners actually go buy products at InfowarsStorecom. If just 1% more of you took action and went to InfowarsStorecom, our funding problems will be over. Please take action now. There is a war for the future happening right now. There is a war that will control my destiny, your destiny, our children's destiny, And that war is something that we can win, but it takes dedication, it takes commitment. That's why I ask listeners, respectfully, to go to InfowarsStorecom and buy great products that will enrich and empower your life while keeping us on air at the very same time. InfowarsStorecom to get a signed or unsigned copy of my book The Great Reset and the War for the World: ultimate bone broth back in stock. nitric boost, the amazing CBD oil we have. that's the highest quality you're going to find anywhere at more than half off. It's all available at InfowarsStorecom. some of the very best products And a lot of you have never shopped at InfowarsStore. You've been watching for years, you've been listening for years, but you've never taken the step to go to InfowarsStore. These are great products that really work and are amazing. plus, they keep us on air. So, again, please take action and go to InfowarsStorecom today, and I thank you. So, again, please take action and go to InfowarsStorecom today, and I thank you. So again, please take action and go to InfowarsStorecom today, and I thank you. So, again, please take action and go to InfowarsStorecom today, and I thank you. So again, please take action and go to InfowarsStorecom today and I thank you. So again, please take action and go to InfowarsStorecom today and I thank you. I'm not giving a dark prophecy. I'm saying political assassination is the final tool. if they can't politically assassinate your character, if they can't put you in prison, they kill you. But do they have the way? those to do it? Roger Stone? You know, Alex, I completely share your concern and I have to tell you, the safety of Donald Trump and his family is in my prayers every night and every morning and there's no exaggeration there. It's very interesting. The FBI, very, very high up in the military, told me yesterday that they share this very same concern. For those who say: oh, you can share conspiracy theories, you're crazy. They already killed one president. John F Kennedy was murdered as the result of a conspiracy that involved his own vice president, Lyndon Baines Johnson, the Secret Service, the FBI, the CIA, organized crime, big Texas oil and the international bankers. at a minimum- I proved it in my book- the man who killed Kennedy, the case against LBJ. If they were willing to kill one president, why would they not be willing to murder another? All that stands between between us and total anarchy and chaos and a complete collapse of the rule of law and all of our constitutional freedoms is Donald J Trump, and they know it. That's why I think this statement that I read early of March 16th 2023 is so compelling. It's a declaration of war against him. He said: I'm bringing down the deep state. I never asked you to do this. You're a humble man, but I know you've always been a Christian. but you're born again. You're always preaching at me now, on the phone and in person. You've never done this that I know of. Will you say a short prayer for President Trump and for America? I will, and included in this prayer, I want to include Catherine Kunz, the head of the school in Nashville, who was murdered, Mike Gill, a custodian in that school, Cynthia Peake, a substitute teacher in that school, Haley Scruggs, the daughter of a pastor, and his wife, nine years old. William Kenny, nine years old, Evelyn Deakhouse, nine years old, and their families. And, by the way, wasn't that principal a hero? without a, without a weapon or anything? She charged that shooter. They now know that This touched me and my wife very, very deeply. So, dear Lord, please hear our prayers. You are in charge. We know that. Please afford your protection, your guidance, your love upon this nation. Do not let Donald Trump be harmed in any way. Allow him and us to to persevere under difficult times. Every place in the Bible, Lord, we recognize that when the forces of good were overwhelmingly outnumbered, good, good one over evil. We pray now for that result. these things, we, that we ask in thy name, amen. A preacher I'm not. I'm a, I'm a pal. I'm not much of a preacher. Now we got to reach out to God. God wants us to connect that to make the make, the make the request. We take action. God helps those that helps themselves, But when we ask for the help, God gives it. I'm an absolute, I'm living proof of that. I'm proof that Jesus Christ can do anything. because the deep state had sold me down the river that you've been their target now for decades, but you're still here every day broadcasting on the ramparts in the fight And therefore, sure, we need your support at the info warscom store. I need your support at my legal defense fund. but more than more than money, more than that support, above all we need your prayers. Prayer is incredibly powerful. I would not be here today without the blessings of the Lord. Roger. I can ask a thousand questions here and I want to hit the whole trans call. but what else do you want to hit? This is a disturbing to me. Look, people understand, Alex, that I'm a libertarian. I've always been a libertarian. I'm a strong believer that what consenting adults decide to do in their own homes, even with their own bodies, that really is up to them. but that's not what we're seeing here. What we're seeing here is a demand for the max, indoctrination and the confusion and, in some cases, the longterm physical maiming of children, And this is an entirely different thing. What amazes me is this movement is getting incredibly militant and incredibly violent. We saw this in Nashville. Thanks God that the reports from yesterday of copycat killings around the country turned out to be false, but I've seen these videos online that are deeply disturbing, of trans protesters who taking it beyond their constitutional right to state their point of view to the point of violence, pushing, shoving, threatening, and this is deeply disturbing. These are images in Tennessee, Kentucky, you name it. they're literally storming the Capitol More violently than January 6th, and the media is covering it up. It is deeply, deeply disturbing And, again, the best thing we can do is to pray for our nation, pray for the safety, above all, of Donald Trump because I think he's going to lead the national revival. You know Kim Clement, the famous Christian prophet who said that the giant would be taken down by a simple stone. remember that name. I've taken that to heart. I'm not saying, Alex, that I'm a savior or a prophet or anything other than a man in the army of God. Kim Clement also said that Donald Trump would serve two terms as president. He was uncannily correct about the first. He saw the Trump presidency literally years before anyone even thought Trump was running for president. He insisted to his dying day that Trump would serve two terms. I believe that he is entirely correct about that, or was? Well? the left's getting increasingly desperate and they're totally insane. What else can we do to stop them? Well, I mean, first of all, you know it is. you made a good point and people think it's a small one, but it isn't. When you see a link to a story that you like on Infowars or a bandtv video or a Stone Zone video or a Tucker Carlson video, it's important that you pass it on. Consider yourself an army of one. We are still fighting mass censorship and cancellation. Yes, I am grateful to be back on Twitter and I'm still on TrueSocial, I'm still on Gab, I'm still on Getter, I'm still on Telegram, because I think reaching as many people as possible is crucial. So when you see an Infowars link that you think is particularly compelling, or if you see a bandtv link that is particularly compelling, it is important that you use it in your own emails, to your own contact list, to your own network of friends, and in your own social media postings- to the extent that you still have social media- and many do- because information is power And, as someone once said, we're in an information war. That's right. bandvideo, Roger has his own channel on there. Roger, thank you so much for spending time with us today. You've always been energized. you're super energized now. what an exciting time to be alive. God bless you, and thank you for joining us, Alex. we were born for this moment. God bless you. God bless you. All right, we got a lot of news to cover next hour. I asked the crew to cut down like an hour of the Trans Cult saying: we're going to room your children, we're going to take your children. They edited it down to like four and a half minutes. we're going to air it next segment, But I'm going to ask the crew to upload just that shorter clip. you know evidence of the Trans Cult saying your children belong to us. or Trans Cult promises to take your children. Let's name it that Trans Cult video. Trans Cult promises to take your children, your children are ours. And we're going to add that to bandvideo. we'll put it on in forwardscom. we're going to play that next segment then introducing Drew Hernandez. I'm going to play a little bit of the amazing monologue and 10 minute intro of Tucker Carlson last night. The Trans Cult is satanic, not the average person, not Blair White. you know those are people we love. They're nice people. We're talking about the leftist movement and what it's programming is anti-Christian. If Alex Jones runs for president in the Republican Party, he has a chance of winning. If you just tuned in, you may be noticing I'm wearing an Alex Jones for president 2024 shirt. I am not seriously planning to run for president. This is an idea the crew had have: a triggering shirt, kind of next level. Alex Jones was right As Infowarscom. in the back, Alex Jones for president 2024 on the front. It's a fundraiser shirt. It's made out of really nice fabric, It's high quality and it is a exclusive shirt to InfowarStorecom. and when the shirts are gone. they're gone. We're doing one run of Alex Jones for president- 2024 shirts and we'll have a historic memento. be able to spread the word and meet a lot of like-minded people and you will be able to keep us on the air. No way, No way. That's a bridge too far. No, it can't be. and I said on national television that he was going to win at InfowarStorecom. I'm a huge believer in information. I watch Infowars every day and follow Alex Jones closely. You know why. He can put you ahead of the curve and he's been demonized as a conspiracy theorist. Think about how frustrated we are. if you've been awake for a year or two, Imagine being like an Alex Jones or those guys who've been awake for like decades. Alex has been right on for over a decade. This is reality. It just pancakes. Truth is stranger than fiction. The revolution of peaceful information is coming and when it comes time, you people are going to be brought to punish. You're lying to the public. It's disgusting. The media continues to misrepresent what I've said. He may be America's best-known conspiracy theorist. Alex Jones has the largest audience in the country, bigger than any of the networks, the biggest megaphone in the country. We're going to get fired up about the real things, the things that matter. Burning hell, New World Order. If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance. All right, Drew Hernandez is going to be taking over for the rest of the hour because I got to go to a bankruptcy hearing online here in about 30 minutes, but I'm going to introduce him. next segment. But Tucker Carlson: three days before, the trans devil cultists are still suppressing the manifesto, attacked and killed these children and other innocent people. Tucker said: the trans people are going to start killing us. You've got the young turds and you've got all of them out there saying attack, attack. People are killing trans. Statistically, conservatives are killing no trans people, Their lifestyle, what they've been inducted into as children. on average, they're the highest level of suicide, death, murder, killing. And it's the left that's chewing up these mainly young men that have been told they're girls and given these destructive hormones. So here's just a four-minute compilation, very small amount, of the evidence. it's so much of them saying: your children belong to us. We'll come back with Drew. We are grooming the new generation of Americans to be fully embracing of diversity and inclusivity And for the children and the people that support it are going to realize that this is going to be the grooming of the next generation. That's the whole. goal is to make kids that aren't used to seeing something like me more comfortable to seeing it. No one's there to push an agenda on anyone. No one's there to persuade people or to recruit people. Who wants to be a drag queen? when they grow up, You could be a drag queen superhero. So it's the pedo movement saying: it's a drag queen. They go. don't ban drag queens. No, we're trying to ban pedos for kids. We're coming for you. we're coming for you. Your children will care about fairness and justice for others. Your children will work to convert all the sisters and brothers. Then soon, we're almost certain, your kids will start converting you. It's the new religion And brought to this site. These pedos have been promised access to our children and they demand it, Not from their God Right, we'll convert your children. Then we'll turn to you, giving all the fear inside. It's freeing like you never knew. Go and see San Francisco. Go and turn up that disco. You'll forget you were ever upset. We'll convert your children And make an ally of you. yet We'll make an ally of you. yet They all got that sick smirk on their faces like barracudas. Look at those guys. They're not a bunch of people in that choir working with the pedos, by the way, And we have to warn you, ladies and gentlemen: if you've got young or impressionable children in your household, bring them to the screen right now. And we witnessed parents taking their children as young as two inside to take part Talking, singing and reading. We can both be grooms To an audience of preschoolers, toddlers and their caregivers. Family programming: Love it. Yes, We have just confirmed that a registered child sex offender has been reading to children at a Houston public library as part of its drag queen story hour. A media spokesperson for the library confirms one of those drag queens, Tatiana Malanina, is really Alberto Garza, a child sex offender In 2008, he was convicted of assaulting an eight-year-old boy. The big bad wolf dresses up like grandma. People seem to walk away having a good time. Start them young right. Start them young right. This is put out in the New York Times like it's wonderful And it's the biggest scary-looking group of weirdo pot-bellied men. Looks like a bunch of Dennis Hasterds running around with clown makeup on, just hopping around rubbing their giant bellies in front of children And you're like. what alternate universe is this? What planet did I wake up in? Ladies and gentlemen, we have a new toothpaste that my dad, a retired dentist and oral surgeon, developed- Dr Joe's Naturals tumor toothpaste. that just came into stock And I got to tell you. I got samples of this months ago and it is amazing. The way it makes your gums feel. what it does to your mouth is insane. We know turmeric is an antioxidant and anti-inflammatory. It does such great things to the body. Then you add that with tea tree oil and a bunch of other essential oils, It is just dynamite. It is so good to detox and attack inflammation in your mouth. I want to challenge everybody to try the new toothpaste at infoworkstorecom- Dr Joe's Naturals turmeric toothpaste. And, while you're at it, check out the new ashwagandha line of products. We have ashwagandha with black pepper extract for your libido, your testosterone, in pill form, And we have the pure ashwagandha root gummies as well, now available at infoworkstorecom. They're amazing products and they fund the Info War. Take action now at infoworkstorecom From the front lines of the information war. it's Alex Jones. All right, incredible journalist. firebrand talk show host, pastor Hernandez takes over for the balance of the hour, then Paul Joseph watches the next hour. I'll be back tomorrow. I think I'm going to host all four hours take calls. I got to go to a bankruptcy hearing. Things are going well there, despite all the enemy's lies, Propaganda. your prayers are definitely having an effect. But before we introduce Drew Hernandez, I wanted to play for you just a few minutes from Tucker Carlson's 10 minute monologue last night. Remember, three days before the attack in Tennessee by the trans demon. you see that face of the person. I meant to show that image. I meant to show that image to people, The image of that woman that believed that she was a man, absolutely crazed, absolutely demonic, staring into the sight of that gun. when she's going in- Overhead shot, please, When she's going in to kill, and just look at that captured demon. look at the horror on her face, The total demonic possession. totally sad, Looks like she's in hell but she's killing children. That's what the enemy turns you into. That's the mind control. That's their programming. That's what they do. And then, after they do this to somebody, they say it's our fault for not accepting them when we didn't do anything to them. So here's a clip of Tucker Carlson and then Drew Hernandez of Drew H Live on Twitter and DrewHLivecom, host of Frontlines and more. Here's Tucker Carlson introducing this information, and then on to Drew Hernandez. Stay with us. The trans movement is the mirror image of Christianity and therefore its natural enemy. In Christianity, the price of admission is admitting that you're not God. Christians openly concede that they have no real power over anything and, for that matter, very little personal virtue. They will tell you to your face that they are sinful and helpless and basically absurd. They're not embarrassed about any of this. They brag about it. That saved a wretch like me, goes the most famous Christian hymn ever written in English. The trans movement takes the opposite view. Trans ideology claims dominion over nature itself. We can change the identity we were born with, they will tell you with wild-eyed certainty. Christians can never agree with this statement because these are powers they believe God alone possesses. That unwillingness to agree, that failure to acknowledge a trans person's dominion over nature, incites and enrages some in the trans community. People who believe they're God can't stand to be reminded that they're not. So Christianity and transgender orthodoxy are wholly incompatible theologies. They can never be reconciled. They are on a collision course with each other. One side is likely to draw blood before the other side. That's what we concluded last week. Yesterday morning, tragically, our fears were confirmed. A self-identified trans person called Audrey Hale committed mass murder at a Christian school in Nashville. Hale burst into a place called the Convent School and executed three nine-year-olds as well as three adults. Police have released body cam footage from the end of the massacre. We're showing you just a small part of it. You can see the rest online if you want. We're not going to show it because it's too awful and sad. But what was almost as sickening to see, in a far more subtle and insidious way, was the media coverage of yesterday's tragedy. Here's Terry Moran of ABC News, for example, suggesting that Christians were murdered in Tennessee because they infringed on the rights of transgendered people Watch. Audrey Hale identified herself as a transgender person. The state of Tennessee earlier this month passed, and the governor signed, a bill that banned transgender medical care for minors, as well as a law that prohibited adult entertainment, including male and female impersonators. after a series of drag show controversies in that state, The state of Tennessee bans the sexual mutilation of children. Children get shot to death in a school. It's cause and effect. That's what ABC News is telling you. That's not far from justifying mass murder. but others took the next step. A group called the Trans Resistance Network said that the shooter's death was a complex tragedy that resulted from- quote- anti-trans bias. This is the tip of the spear of the transhuman movement. Animal clones, human clones, animal human clones. This is the satanic takeover. This is it. This is the enemy's attack. We're laying it out here today. Now the great Drew Hernandez takes over. Thank you so much, Alex. Guys, thank you for joining us here on the Alex Jones Show in the third hour. Like Alex said, my name is Drew Hernandez, host of Drew Hernandez Live. You can find exclusively on Rumble, and I host a show called Frontlines Nightly on Real America's Voice. Just go to my Twitter, Drew H Live, and click the link in my bio. You will find all those links. Thank you, guys. Well, let's get straight into this. Let's just call it for what it is right. This is trans terrorism, And I kind of refrain from saying radical. you know what I mean Like radical Islamic terrorism, because when you look at the ideologies, it's just. it is what it is. It's trans terrorism. And what I want to talk about in this entire hour is how we got here, kind of where we're going, Kind of like everything we've been warning about with these radical terrorists that have obviously lost their minds. They're mentally unstable to begin with, right, Because these people genuinely have gender dysphoria. I mean, they can't get something as basic, you know, as basic biology- biological males, biological females- Because if I were to come out and identify as a cat right now on the Alex Jones Show- and I was dead serious about it and I threatened everyone that if you don't accept my existence, I'm just going to come out and murder some people. because that's what these people do, right, And they justify it. They not only accept it, but they parade it around And then they reward it at the same time And then they protect it. The point of one of these individuals taking this dangerous satanic just out of the universe ideologies to the point of murdering kids, Murdering children and, yes, three adults as well- We all know why this happened. We all know why this individual took matters into their own hands like this: Because of the lies that they've been told and because of the mental instability and because of the absolute evil. Just because we throw around the word mental illness around, we throw around the word these people have been lied to, they've been propagandized- does not excuse them of their evil, wicked, satanic behavior. That's exactly what you're seeing right now in the United States of America And the response to it is a testament to the total depravity that God, by the way, warned every single one of us that we would see. Romans, chapter one: you want to just throw away all immorality. You want to throw away God's design, especially for marriage. You invert that and you accept it and normalize it in a society. Men go after men, women go after women. They throw away the natural use for biological reproduction, to reproduce. It also spreads disease. God said there will be a consequence And the consequence is the society gets given over to a reprobate and depraved mind. What does that mean? That means that the society within and all of the hearts, the consciences, are seared. It's like taking an iron and just placing it straight to the conscience, where you're numb, and you lose all sense of morality. Your moral compass is totally gone, totally gone, Cannot discern left from right- And I don't mean politically, literally left from right, good from evil, Cannot discern up from down. You have no idea what's going on. People are saying the most satanic evil things out in the open, protecting and defending a murderer, an individual that massacred children. Why? Because these people have been given over to a reprobate mind. It is the totality of what evil is, not just sin. But I'll tell you, Romans chapter one is in full swing, ladies and gentlemen, full swing. The Bible also makes it very clear that in the last days, the Bible says the Holy Spirit explicitly says that many will depart from the faith and take heed to deceiving spirits and doctrines of demons. Put that image back up that Alex showed earlier. That's exactly what you're seeing in that individual's face: Doctrines of demons, deceiving spirits filling a wicked heart, to the point of showing up to an opponent that they view and then believe in their eyes. Drew, have you ever in a horror movie seen a face that demonic? No, that is pure demon possession. No, that's exactly what you're seeing here. And the point is is that this is happening for a very specific reason, And we're going to get into all of that- because people need to understand and see how we got to this point And it needs to be dealt with legally, lawfully and as peacefully as possible. But we cannot accept murder and it be defended in a society. That's where we're at right now. We got a lot more when we come back from the break. So stay with us. We now have three new game-changing products that are in stock at InfowarsStorecom, and one of our best-selling products sold out for over a year that's now back at stock. Our prebiotic. does any introduction to such amazing things for your gut flora, your overall health. What it does is essential. Go read about it at InfowarsStorecom. And now the fourth: toothpaste designed by dad. the last two were big hits. This one is really special. It's turmeric concentrate with a bunch of other essential oils and so much more to take your mouth's health to the next level. We also have high-quality ashwagandha root for your libido, your stamina, your testosterone, with black pepper extract to accelerate it as a pill. And we have ashwagandha root gummies as well- Very strong, very powerful- Now in stock at InfowarsStorecom. Go there, experience these great products and others, and fund the Infowars. The only way we fail is not taking action. God bless you. Now. please visit InfowarsStorecom and experience these powerful products for yourself. Thousands of former Nazis went to work for the United States government. A flying disc has been found and is now in the possession of the army. There is a bulletin from CBS News: President Kennedy has been shot. This is a different kind of war. The USS Liberty had just been attacked by Israeli jets and torpedo boats. The CIA could manipulate the news in the United States. They took the babies out of incubators and left the children to die on the cold floor. It was almost as if it were a plan imploded. It just hanged him. We need to go into the Capitol. You will always have conspiracy theories. They are nothing but distractions. You guys censored Harvard-educated doctors. You silenced those voices. What we want to do in Davos is push the reset button. As soon as we start exposing the great reset, the sooner these globalists start going to prison. We have had in hand talking to the viewers and listeners that have tuned in many of you for years and never gone to mfullworkstorecom. We know the vast, vast, vast, vast majority of you never actually go to mfullworkstorecom and never experience these great products and never find the operation. Sure, you share a link, you share an article, you tell folks about the show. That's great and I thank you, But we need funds to operate. Plus, we've got really great products that do amazing things for people, like our CBD oil and our fizzy magnesium and our sleep aid and our nitric oxide and our Real Red Pill Plus. All of these are really great products that keep us on air Plus. you're missing out on these products, So get off the bench, Get in the game, Step to the plate and go to mfullworkstorecom right now and get these great mfullwork products at mfullworkstorecom. Ladies and gentlemen, mfullwork has proven itself in the last 28 years to be over the globalist target and having the biggest effect out there against those tyrants, And we fund our operation with viewers and listeners' support, while selling you great products at the same time. So I want to thank all the viewers and listeners who have supported us over the years by spreading the word, praying for the broadcast and buying product. But I really want to encourage those of you that have been on the fence and have never actually gone to mfullworkstorecom to go there and get the great books and films and supplements and survival gear that's there. that won't just empower you and enrich your life, but again will keep this broadcast transmitting Real Red Pill Plus. or our super high quality CBD oil for the 50% off, or our great fizzy magnesium product, or whether it's Down and Out or Rape Sleep Bay, that's back in stock, it's all there. Our Turmeric 95% Humanoid- strongest out there, Turmeric 95%- it's all available at mfullworkstorecom and it keeps us on the air. So make the decision to enrich your life and keep us on air at mfullworkstorecom. All right, man, the trans terrorists are going full force, man, And I'm telling you, these people are about it. They believe all of their lies. They believe you're really a Nazi. They believe you're really a fascist. They believe you're out there to kill them and erase them from existence. Okay, if these people are obviously mentally unstable, they've lost their minds. they cannot get down. Basic biology: okay, biological male, biological female, all right. When you fan the flames of their mental illness and you not only justify it, you accept it, you tolerate it, okay, you parade it, you reward it, but you also fan the flames of their paranoia, and that's what these big tech companies are doing. You see all the propaganda on TikTok. you see all the propaganda on Instagram. you see this stuff floating around all the mainstream. you talk to any detransitioner. what do they tell you? Part of the reason I got so radicalized was because of social media. I heard that Christians and Christian fascists and mega Republicans and anyone that doesn't agree with me wants to kill me because I'm such a marginalized minority in society that there's actually people out there that want to end my life and murder me. okay, When you're communicating things like that to the mentally ill and the mentally unstable and those that just spark paranoia, and listen, I'm not knocking mental illness, I actually care about the mentally ill. I think mentally ill people. it needs to be addressed so they can get the real help they need. we don't sit there and baby them and say, oh, just come to this safe space, you're totally fine, everything's fine, don't worry about it. oh, yes, you have something totally wrong about you, but we're just gonna accept it, tolerate it, reward it and act like everything's okay. Society is so cucked out, ladies and gentlemen, that that's where we've ended up, where everyone is afraid- not the info warriors and the thought criminals that watch this show, but all these cucks out there, even cuck conservatives on the right and these individuals that just wanna baby these people. let's baby them. we don't wanna offend them. they need to make sure that they're accepted with their mental illness in society, that there's a place for them. but the response to that from the trans terrorists is: well, if you don't do that, I'm gonna murder you and murder your children, and that's the direct threat that all of us are under right now. If you don't believe me, we have some footage out of Nashville right now. about 30, 45 minutes ago, the trans terrorists have breached the Nashville, Tennessee- excuse me, the Tennessee- State Capitol. they've breached it. there's the footage right there. the police are dealing with them. arrests appear to have been made. they've breached the building because these people look at all that. look at these demons, the mentally ill, probably the schizophrenic- on a bunch of drugs, tons of drugs, looking like the Joker, thinking that they're fighting against Nazis, thinking that they're fighting against people that wanna murder them and erase them from existence and they're getting violent as a result. And they say that if you support President Trump, you support Alex Jones, you support Drew Hernandez, you just support patriotism and American nationalism- hell, you just love the American flag. You know what, grandma? You are a terrorist. that's what you are- because you believe in those things And these people- we saw this all of 2020, these radicalized ideas that turn into real world terrorism, because they actually believe they're fighting against white supremacists. BLM says brown people are all being attacked by white supremacist killer cops. Antifa says we're fighting against Adolf Hitler 2.0 and Donald Trump and the SS and all the Make America Great Again. supporters, we're fighting against these Nazis. There's a violent response as such. and look at the Capitol today in Tennessee. These people are breaching because they're the real domestic terrorists, the real terrorists that are functioning off of a lie, because they're already wicked and mentally unstable in their minds and they're willing to take drastic, aggressive, very dangerous measures, to the point of murdering children, You see. but the response here is that these people are willing to kill anybody because they believe that their lives are in danger. And I'm not saying that because I'm cucking out and I'm saying: oh, let's just be understanding to these people. I'm just telling you what it is, dude. That's all I'm ever going to do is sit here and call it for what it is. And I'm not saying it because I feel sorry for them. No, these people are filled with evil, dude. They are filled with evil, But the mental illness and the mental instability is just making it worse. But society gets so cucked out. the mainstream media will not show you this because they want you to be focused on Donald Trump and January 6th and the insurrection, when there's actual transurrections taking place. okay, right before your eyes, just days after a trans terrorist murdered children. Why are they doing this? And, by the way, Christian children that belong to Christian parents and Christian employees and educators at a Christian school, why are they doing this? Yes, it's a level of persecution, but these people are wicked, they're evil and they're being catered to by the same time. at the same time, It's like the issue we have in the so-called justice system: pedophiles and child rapists. they all get slaps on the wrist to the point where they like get protected. I mean the Supreme Court with Katanji Brown Jackson- whatever the hell her name is right- A literal pedo simp. you guys remember all that Sympathizing for pedophiles? oh my gosh. a pedophile was looking at one piece of child porn and it turned into like a thousand. We should be more lenient on them because they weren't trying to look at all the child porn. It's the same thing across. that's the depravity, where they protect the offenders rather than the offended and the victims and the innocent. Why? Because they're filled with the devil to kill, steal and destroy. kill, steal and destroy. They're of their father, the devil. they want to destroy you. It's in their hearts, it's in their minds and they view you as an opponent. Now let's talk about the mainstream media and the culture at large. What have we been seeing for the past couple days? They're blaming the parents. they're making this trans terrorist to be some kind of martyr. They feel sorry for the trans- oh, all these trans organizations that represent the trans community at large. they put out all these cucked out statements pretending they care about the victims and the kids. Oh, this is a double tragedy. did you guys see all that garbage? This is a double tragedy. The first tragedy is, yes, we feel sorry for the children and the victims. our prayers go out to them. Yeah, you don't even. Who are you praying to? You guys don't believe in God. you hate Christ. Your people hate Jesus. who are you praying to? Praying to Satan? praying to the devil? Listen, this community loves what happened. They love that these Christian little babies got murdered in cold blood. They love the blood, the blood. they just love blood. it's their satanic ritual. These are the same people that love to see the murder of children on a daily basis, that run around supporting abortion, which is murder, and not only supporting it, but defending it and celebrating it. How many times have we seen it? This is baphomet. it's what it is. Molek, all wrapped in one. their father, the devil. it's this cocktail of satanism. That's why these people are running around in the mainstream media. you see, at the Grammy, Sam Smith or the Oscars, whatever the hell it was- with satanic rituals out in the open, These people love this stuff. Lil Nas X running around making music videos, staging himself, getting sodomized by the devil- who do you think's watching that? Gen Z? the very people that are being indoctrinated and lied to to believe that they're actually not biological males- if they are, and they're actually not biological females if they are, and if nobody accepts them, then those people want to kill them and murder them. This is all the agenda of the New World Order. the antichrist and satan that empowers it. It's all of that and we're going to get into more of that when we come back from the break. guys, Do not go anywhere. If Alex Jones runs for president in the Republican Party, he has a chance of winning. If you just tuned in, you may be noticing I'm wearing an Alex Jones for president 2024 shirt. I am not seriously planning to run for president. This is an idea the crew had. Have a triggering shirt, kind of next level. Alex Jones was right As Infowarscom in the back. Alex Jones for president 2024 on the front. It's a fundraiser shirt. It's made out of really nice fabric, It's high quality and it is a exclusive shirt to InfowarStorecom. and when the shirts are gone, they're gone. We're doing one run of Alex Jones for president 2024 shirts and we'll have a historic memento. be able to spread the word and meet a lot of like-minded people and you'll be able to keep us on the air. No way, No way. That's a bridge too far. No, it can't be. And I said on national television that he was going to win at InfowarStorecom. It's hard to believe that we're already going into March 2023 and the world is an insane place. World War III has already started. Biden is a puppet and is dissolving our borders. There's mass censorship, James O'Keefe has been removed from Project Veritas. The list goes on and on of the bad things that are happening. but the good things that are happening is humanity is really accelerating its awakening, But those of us on the forefront are under more attack by the establishment than ever. That's why I'm counting on you to spread the word about the broadcast, to pray for the broadcast and to keep the broadcast on the air by getting great products at InfowarStorecom, And whether it's a final signed copy. they're almost all sold out. or the great reset in the War of the World, or ultimate bone broth finally back in stock after over two years. it's all available at InfowarStorecom. These are truly amazing products. So get your InfowarStore products at InfowarStorecom and enrich your life while keeping the broadcast on the air. It is your decision on whether or not we stay on the air, so please take action now at InfowarStore. I'm a huge believer in information. I watch Infowars every day and follow Alex Jones closely. You know why. He can put you ahead of the curve And he's been demonized as a conspiracy theorist. Think about how frustrated we are. if you've been awake for a year or two, Imagine being like an Alex Jones or those guys who've been awake for like decades. Alex has been right on for over a decade. This is reality. It just hey, hey. Truth is stranger than fiction. The revolution of peaceful information is coming and when it comes time, you people are going to be brought to punish. You're lying to the public. It's disgusting. The media continues to misrepresent what I've said. He may be America's best known conspiracy theorist. Alex Jones has the largest audience in the country, bigger than any of the networks, the biggest megaphone in the country, We're going to get fired up about the real things, the things that matter. Burning hell, New World Order- This is their big move. So yeah, you say, why doesn't Biden address the disasters in the United States? He doesn't care, It's not his job, He's not the president of the United States, He's a puppet operating for the globalists. Appetites of the autocrat cannot be appeased. They must be opposed. Autocrats only understand one word: No, no, no, Exactly. And that's why we say no to your vaccines. We say no to you shutting down our businesses. We say no to you taking our firearms. We say no to you censoring our free speech. We say no to you selling us out to the World Health Organization. We say no to you getting us into World War Three. You're right. We stand against autocrats like you, Joe Biden, and we say no, And we say no to your war Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. It's Alex Jones. When the police chief down in Tennessee the other day confirmed that the murderer- I don't even feel comfortable using the word shooter anymore. This is a murderer, an individual that loves to massacre children and I guarantee you probably, maybe, was attracted to children, because most of these people seem to just be obsessed with children, Children, children, children. With these people, We're coming for your children. They just never stop With your children. they want your children. They want to murder your children. They want to own your children. They want to indoctrinate your children. They want to groom your children. They want to manipulate your children. They want to touch your children. They want to LGBTQ, Homosexualize your children. All they want is your children. By the way, back to the point, The police chief was confirming that this individual was a self-identified trans right, Had a manifesto, that this was clearly targeted, strategically planned, well thought out and had some obvious motives. right And in the process, during the press conference when this all dropped- I'm sure you guys all saw the viral videos- the police chief kept calling the shooter her, Her, her, she, she, her, her, her, she, she, she, she, she. And the mainstream media and all the woke tarred psychopath losers out there all right were triggered over the fact that the police chief misgendered a murderer. That was the issue. Oh my God, get the pronouns right. How dare you misgender this murderer that massacred three Christian babies and three adults at this Christian school? That doesn't make us horrified. What horrifies us is that you have the audacity. You have the audacity to sit there and misgender a murderer. Don't you understand? Don't you understand how marginalized they are and how hard their life is? for a trans person, that they had to take matters into their own hands to murder little babies. Don't you understand how oppressed they are? The least you could do is be respectful and get their pronouns right, You stupid officer Guys, that is literally what these people did. And when I sit here and I talk about total depravity and I explain to you what a reprobate mind is, especially when it's gone societal across the entire culture and population, that is exactly what I am talking about. It's next level immorality. Next level immorality is what you're seeing with the situation right now, where they defend the murder. It's open murder, but they find a way to make them look like a martyr. Let me say that again, It's open murder, but they find a way to make them look like a martyr and they protect them. and, oh, make sure to get the pronouns right. Thank you. No, You know what? No, All right, And tell me if you're with me and shout out to everybody watching live, whether it be on rumble, whether it be on the getter stream. love every single one of you guys. I'm watching your comments right now. I'm always reading them. I love you guys. Let me know what you guys think about this statement right here. I am sick of this culture. I am sick of this cucked out culture that all they ever do is cater to these people and they're afraid to tell the truth and they're afraid to hurt their feelings, Disrespect them. Who cares at this point, dude? Oh, it's so disrespectful that you misgender me, Okay, Who cares? Free speech, Screw you and your feelings. I'm sorry, dude. Actually you know what. I take that back. I'm not sorry. You want to know why? Because this has gotten to the level of babies being murdered. over this mental instability and wickedness and reprobate depravity that we are all seeing in this degenerate society, We need more shame, shame, shame, shame. We need to shame immorality. We need to shame evil. We need to shame demons. We need to shame those that don't want to live in reality. You want to know why I say that? Because that produces a level of humility in the society. This is why these people call themselves pride. pride which, by the way, the Bible says in Proverbs, around chapter six and seven, that God hates a proud look. Do you understand that Truly? do you understand that? And what does the Bible mean? when the Bible says that It means despises, He views it as despicable. You want to know why God hates a proud look and God hates pride, and why these people identify as the very thing that God despises and views despicable and unholy to his nostrils up in heaven and his omniscience and omnipotence across the universe, Because it's the epitome of what challenges who. he is the alpha, the omega, the all powerful. There is no one more powerful than Jesus Christ. There is no one more powerful than God himself. There is no one more powerful. He has ascended above anyone and anything in ever existence. And for a human being, for us to sit here and raise our noses and even think for a millisecond, even before we even think it, that we are greater and more powerful, which is pride, We are functioning like Lucifer. That's the very thing that cast him out of heaven and all his demons and followers that followed him. It's in the hearts of this entire movement. That is the truth. ladies and gentlemen, I know conservatives don't like hearing that. oh, because there's good ones out there. There's good ones. They don't want to groom children. That's not the argument. The argument is from a biblical perspective. this lifestyle is degenerate from the get go, But we've all tolerated it. Society doesn't want to hurt anybody's feelings because they don't want to say the things that I'm saying right now. So look where it got us. Look what they did to Disney, Look what they did to Cartoon Network, Look what they did to ESPN, Look what they did to the mainstream media, Look what they did to everything that you've all loved at one point in your life: Sports, NBA, NFL- it's all saturated and poisoned and Satanified, right, Why? How do we get to this point? Because people are cucked out and do not want to put an end to it. Number one: it has to be addressed. Number one: it has to be addressed. Stop being afraid of hurting people's feelings, And I know all the info warriors out there know exactly what I'm saying. Number two: if there's an ability to legally, lawfully, put an end to all of this, and peacefully, it has to be done. It literally has to be done. And also say this as well: as I am not an advocate for violence, never have been, never will. But as a Christian, from a biblical worldview, the God that I serve and I worship is a huge advocate of self-defense. You defend yourself, and that goes for anybody and everyone, regardless of what race you are, what color you are, doesn't matter. I'm a huge advocate of self-defense. What these people are doing is going on the offense and they want war. These people want to murder you, They want to kill you And they're showing it out in the open because even guys- this even happened with the press secretary of Katie Hobbs. She resigned yesterday because she came out in support of all the radical trans terrorism, of these people coming out and saying we need to kill Christians, We need to kill these people, We need to do this. All this radical rhetoric that's not covered by free speech, can't sit there and say: you want to murder people, All right, That's a direct threat to humanity. You guys understand that- I know you do. But even at the level of the press secretary of the so-called governor of Arizona resigned yesterday because she was sympathizing with the trans terrorists and their rhetoric to run around and go on the offense and hurt people that disagree with them. He's posting memes with individuals with guns saying that: oh, this is a. yeah, I totally support this, This is the, this is, this is what trans people do, and they, you don't want to come after us. I'm paraphrasing, But the point is here, ladies and gentlemen: do not be desensitized. Don't ever be afraid, And I know if you watch info wars, you're not afraid. you're not afraid of getting canceled. If you're still watching info wars, after everything Alex Jones has ever been through, you're not afraid of being canceled. You've gone down that valley of the shadow of death. right, You've gone beyond what everyone was afraid of, but this is going to go into absolutely everything, every single channel of society, not just the guys behind microphones that are coming out and saying this on platforms getting shadow banned. You're going to start to continue to see this on a grand scale. and so-called education, obviously in politics, mainstream media, culture, music, movies, you name it- and public health- right, It's all saturated, It's all indoctrinated, It is all being hijacked by the new world order, Satanists that have the trans human agenda, that want to take your children in order to get that done. And if you don't let them, all these woke tards on TikTok are saying: well, maybe you should have let us and you'd still have your kids. We'll be right back. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a new toothpaste that my dad, a retired dentist and oral surgeon, developed Dr Joe's Naturals Tumor Toothpaste that just came into stock and I got to tell you. I got samples of this months ago and it is amazing. The way it makes your gums feel. what it does to your mouth is insane. We know turmeric is an antioxidant and anti-inflammatory and does such great things to the body. When you add that with tea tree oil and a bunch of other essential oils, it is just dynamite. It is so good to detox and attack inflammation in your mouth. I want to challenge everybody to try the new toothpaste at mfullworkstorecom- Dr Joe's Naturals Tumor Toothpaste. And, while you're at it, check out the new ashwagandha line of products. We have ashwagandha with black pepper extract for your libido, your testosterone, in pill form, and we have the pure ashwagandha root gummies as well, now available at mfullworkstorecom. They're amazing products and they fund the Infowar. Take action now at mfullworkstorecom. I know you spread the word, I know you pray for us and that's wonderful. keep doing it. But most viewers and listeners never go to mfullworkstorecom and you never buy great products that enrich and empower your life while at the same time, keep us on air. I know that less than 1% of our listeners actually go buy products at mfullworkstorecom. If just 1% more of you took action and went to mfullworkstorecom, our funding problems will be over. Please take action now. Humanity is in a fight for its very life and Infowars, for decades, has been at the very forefront of the fight for a pro-human future. We can't stay on air without your help and I want to thank you all for your past support, and I want to encourage those of you that have never bought products at mfullworkstorecom to go there and experience how amazing these products really are: Ultimate Bone Broth- finally sold out for over two years, back in stock. Real Red Pill Plus- simply amazing. Nitric Boost- what it does for your heart, cardiovascular critical- All these products like ultimate krill oil, ultimate fish oil, super melt vitality. they're all available and in stock, ready to ship to you right now at mfullworkstorecom. And the final 1200 signed copies of my book The Great Reset and the War for the World- and I'm not going to sign any more after that- are exclusively available at mfullworkstorecom as well. In the last month I got a little busy so I didn't sign the books. We didn't have them for sale, but now I signed the last books, you can get them right now. We now have three new game-changing products that are in stock at mfullworkstorecom, and one of our best-selling products, sold out for over a year, that's now back in stock. Our prebiotic does eat any introduction to such amazing things for your gut flora, your overall health. What it does is essential, but read about it at mfullworkstorecom. And now the fourth: toothpaste designed by my dad. the last two were big hits. this one is really special. It's turmeric concentrate with a bunch of other essential oils and so much more to take your mouth's health to the next level. We also have high-quality ashwagandha root for your libido, your stamina, your testosterone, with black pepper extract to accelerate it as a pill. and we have ashwagandha root gummies as well. Very strong, very powerful- Now in stock at mfullworkstorecom. Go there, experience these great products and others, and fund the Info War. The only way we fail is not taking action. God bless you now. please visit mfullworkstorecom and experience these powerful products for yourself. Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones. Well, Friday is upon us, It's on its way, And if you haven't heard by now, the trans terrorists are taken to Washington DC for the Trans Day of Vengeance. It's going to be taking place And individuals are taken to social media, They're taken to public platforms to make it very clear that they don't care what happened in Nashville, They don't care what happened to these babies that were murdered and massacred in cold blood, and the victims, the adults as well. Why don't they? Why will they continue to press on with their Trans Day of Vengeance? And you got people on TikTok that are running around saying: oh well, you know, if parents didn't support the bill or the legislation in Tennessee that is putting a stop to the mutilization of the genitals of children, then maybe they would still have their kids. And here they are continuing on pressing on April 1st at 11 am assembling at the SCOTUS. And of course they say: wear a mask, not because of covid, because they potentially- and I will say probably, most likely- are going to commit some acts of violence. ladies and gentlemen, the Trans Day of Vengeance. Put that back up one more time. Notice what it says in the middle. What does it say, guys? What did I just get done telling you guys for like 30 minutes? Their flyer literally says: stop trans genocide. OK, so all the schizophrenic, the paranoid, the mentally unstable, the mentally ill that can't figure out or get down basic biology, that have been told by the mainstream media, that have been told by big tech companies that they're facing a genocide, that they're going to be eradicated, that Christian fascists or anyone that disagrees with them is going to wipe them off of the face of planet Earth. Now this cucked out society is having to deal with a monster that they created and cultivated and pampered and kept in a safe space and didn't want to hurt. Now you got to deal with it. So these people are taking to Instagram, they're taking to Twitter and big tech- And I'm going to read this out for you guys. This is what they're saying in regards to the Trans Day of Vengeance: You guys don't think this is dangerous stuff? Take a look at this. This is what they're saying: Kill Christ cucks. behead Christ cucks roundhouse. kick a Christ cuck into the concrete. slam. dunk a Christ cuck baby into the trash. can crucify filthy Christ cucks. defecate in a Christ cucks food. launch Christ cucks into the sun. hashtag: Trans Day of Vengeance unquote. What are we going to see this coming Friday, on April 1st? I'll just predict you're going to see some violence. If you're obviously someone that is not in agreeance with them, you're probably going to get hurt. They'll feel justified in their mental instability and their paranoia that you are standing in their way of existing, that you are the one attempting to genocide them, like it's some kind of SS Nazi final solution. Does it all make sense now why they all say this stuff? And the mainstream media and the New World Order that's backing it all causes this mass instability. They need mass instability in the masses, in the population, So it gives them an excuse. This is on the book Rules for Radicals, right? They need mass instability, so the people are begging them for a savior. The people are begging for Big Brother, begging for big government, begging for the ones with the guns and the firearms to step in and put a stop to the violence, unlike martial law, right, See, but this is how these people cause this mass instability. And, by the way, let me just make myself clear, Just by the way, for the record, trans people do not exist, okay, They're not real. And let me explain to you why Some conservatives like just cannot comprehend this. It's like so mind blowing, right? If trans people have obvious gender dysphoria, mental illness, mental instability, they don't live inside of reality, They live in la la land. I don't feel comfortable in my gender. I don't feel comfortable as my sex, So I'm just going to identify as a box for the day. Welcome to the Alex Jones Show. ladies and gentlemen, I'm a box coming to you, live, Here we are. You guys would all look at me like I'm psycho. You would be questioning Alex Jones as to why the hell is this guy on the air? He literally believes he's a box, an inanimate object. This guy has lost his mind. Oh, no, no, no, no. But when it comes to gender, when it comes to sex, even the Cuckservatives will run around and say: no, they're one of the good ones, because they said they liked Trump one time. No, no, no. That's part of the cuckery, That's part of accepting someone's mental instability. That's not love, ladies and gentlemen. Open rebuke is better than concealed love, Holding back the truth because you don't want to hurt someone's feelings, rather than openly in love telling them: hey, there's something off with you, Let's help you get it fixed. That is wrong And that is how we end up in these positions in society And that is how the absolute deterioration of the moral fabric happens. OK, if they're mentally ill, and it's literally gender dysphoria. It's not real, ladies and gentlemen, Trans people do not exist. To me, it's simple, dude. it's simple. They're all just gay. They're all just homosexuals. Right, Because if you're a dude, you can't figure out whether you're a boy or a girl, But I have an attraction to other dudes, All right, dude. Well, that means you're gay, newsflash. And if you're a girl and you can't figure out whether you're a girl or a boy and you're attracted to other girls, newsflash. honey, sounds like you're a lesbian, which, again, it's all immoral. It's all under Romans, chapter one. It needs to be repented of and it needs to be addressed because it's a problem and an issue of the heart that cannot be fixed politically. There's no conservative version of it. There's no safe version of any of this stuff. There's no tame version of any of this stuff. You say, Drew, what are you saying? I'm saying I'm a Christian and the Bible is very clear that when sin entered the world, it destroyed humanity and it plunged the human civilization into sin and destruction and eternal damnation. That is why God sent his one and only begotten son, and whosoever would believe in him shall not perish but have everlasting life. We need to be saved from our sins and our damnation. We are all responsible. and I'll tell you one thing: That is what this society is afraid of saying, because they would rather cater to the mental illness, to afraid to hurt their feelings, rather tell them the truth and punch them into eternal damnation and hell. To me, ladies and gentlemen, that's not love, because I appreciate the fact that when Jesus saved my soul and when Jesus saved me, he told me the God honest truth about who I was, where I was going, why I was wrong and how I can be saved from the damnation to come due to all of my sinful errors against God and trespasses. To me, that's an act of love: telling the absolute truth to someone in rebellion, where they're really heading off a cliff into eternal damnation forever. But but don't get it twisted, Do not get it twisted. That doesn't mean we as Christians run around just oh, let's. just, let's be nice to everybody and let's not hurt anybody's feelings. Let's just cater to the mentally ill. Let's not go on the offense and call stuff out for what it really is. No, no, no. Let's just put our heads in the sand like ostriches, because Jesus is coming back anyways, And you know he said there'd be days like this. So let's not, you know, get politically engaged and get legislation in place to like: save the innocence, or save the innocence of children, or maybe put a stop to the mass murder genocide, the real genocide, which is abortion. No, no, no, no, no. Jesus said it would be like this, So let's just stand down, look at the sky and wait for him to come back. No man knows the day or the hour. No man knows the day or the hour in which he is returning. his master is returning. Christ expects us to occupy- okay, And we are called to always oppose and expose evil. Why? Because we are the light of the world. We are the light of the world. Light, light, light, light. ladies and gentlemen, Light causes the darkness to flee because the darkness hates the light. That's why they hate you, That's why they want to kill you, That's why they want you removed, because all of these people are filled with total darkness. Have you noticed? anytime you walk around, you don't even have to say anything, especially if you're a Christian- you know exactly what I'm talking about. Whenever you're around, people that serve their father, the devil, that are filled with darkness and damnation, and you're filled with light and the spirit of God. all you got to do is. enter a room and demons manifest and you could feel it and you could see it. Why? Because this is all spiritual good versus evil. ladies and gentlemen, The most banned man in America, Alex Jones, I want you all to know something: Alex Jones was right. Alex is right about far more than he's wrong. Alex has been right on for over a decade. I don't care how you slice it, dice it, flip it up or rub it down. Alex Jones was right. Think about how frustrated we are. if you've been awake for a year or two. Imagine being like an Alex Jones or those guys who've been awake for like decades. Alex Jones called this years ago, years ago. Alex Jones never bought the Russia hoax- not for a second. You are one of the great thinkers of this. You are a martyr to the First Amendment. The government fears Alex Jones. That's why the globalists hate me is because I'm exposing their corporate worldwide tyranny. We now have three new game changing products that are in stock at Infoworkstorecom And one of our best selling products sold out for over a year that's now back in stock. Our prebiotic does eat any introduction to such amazing things for your gut flora, your overall health. What it does is essential to read about at Infoworkstorecom. And now the fourth: toothpaste designed by dad. the last two were big hits. This one is really special. It's turmeric concentrate with a bunch of other essential oils and so much more to take your mouth's health to the next level. Those have high quality ashwagandha root for your libido, your stamina, your testosterone, with black pepper extract to accelerate it as a pill. And we have ashwagandha root gummies as well. Very strong, very powerful- Now in stock at Infoworkstorecom. Go there, experience these great products and others, and fund the Infowork. The only way we fail is not taking action. God bless you. Now, please visit Infoworkstorecom and experience these powerful products for yourself. Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order, It's Alex Jones Transmuting worldwide from the summitme studios in the United Kingdom. You are listening to Paul Joseph Watson. Well, three days after a transgender terrorist entered a Christian school in Nashville and killed three nine-year-old children as well as three adults, We now have, three days on from that absolute outrage, Transurrectionists- yesterday in Kentucky and today in Tennessee- staging their own January 6 style insurrection- invading the Capitol building in Tennessee, entering the chamber, getting into physical confrontations with police officers. Unlike the January 6 insurrectionists, they weren't invited and escorted into the building. There you see this maniacal mob tussling with cops, screaming things about trans rights. They're very upset about losing the ability to chemically castrate children in Tennessee. They're upset about drag queen shows being restricted on public property, with kids not being exposed to degenerate sexualized trash. So they're screaming their heads off. They're getting arrested. They're calling for more gun control. Worse scenes than January 6,, many people are saying. Here's how the media is reporting it. in the United States of America, though CBS News: Hundreds protest at Tennessee Capitol for tighter gun controls after Nashville shooting. Listen to how they frame it, given those scenes of that trans rights mob that you just saw there. Hundreds of school children- Didn't see many school children in that video. Teens and parents gathered at the Tennessee Capitol on Thursday to protest for tighter gun controls Three days after a shooter opened fire at the Covenant School. Again they're framing it as: oh, it's just a sober, humble, respectful, calm protest by children and parents outside the Tennessee Capitol. Reality screaming maniacal mob of transgender activists demanding more rights: The right to chemically castrate children, give them hormone blockers, puberty blockers, hormone treatment Says that the Capitol protesters lined the hallways and chanted at the state's Republican dominated legislature. They filed in, Filed in, They burst their way in and start fighting with the police. Oh, they just orderly filed in, didn't they? They were very respectful BS To begin taking up bills. for the first time since the shooting, chants of save our children echoed noisily in the hallways Between the state, Senate and House chambers, with protesters setting up shop inside and outside the Capitol. Oh yeah, the QAnon shaman and the rest of the January six insurrectionists. I guess they were just setting up shop too, were they? Some silently filled the Senate chambers, gallery some, what? two of them? They're all screaming like banshees. Watch the video- It's all over Twitter right now, Including children who held signs reading I'm nine, a reference to the age of the three kids who died in Monday's attack. Again, the bodies are barely cold and they're invoking the three victims of the transgender terrorist to try to get more guns taken out of good people's hands. Why did the transgender terrorist, Miss Hale- almost misgendered Miss Hale- then? why did the transgender terrorist refuse to target the other schools that were in the manifesto, the maps that she had, The other buildings, the mall, the other targets that were on that list? Because, as the police have said, they had better security. They had more good people with guns, But these people want fewer good people with guns. They're not really offended about the monster with a gun that took those nine-year-old's lives. They're more offended about puberty blockers being withdrawn, hormone treatments being withdrawn, drag queens not being able to show their crotches around children. They're more outraged about that than the actual shooting itself. And almost as bad as I'm going to get into on the other side of the break is Joe Biden's continuing reaction to all this. Again, for a third day in a row, laughing and joking. Hasn't visited the school either. SummitNews will be back. There is a war for the future happening right now. There is a war that will control my destiny, your destiny, our children's destiny, And that war is something that we can win. but it takes dedication, It takes commitment. That's why I asked listeners respectively to go to InfoWarStorecom and buy great products that will enrich and empower your life while keeping us on air at the very same time. InfoWarStorecom to get a signed or unsigned copy of my book The Great Reset and War for the World: ultimate bone broth. back and stop. nitric boost the amazing CBD oil we have. that's the highest quality you're going to find anywhere at more than half off. It's all available at InfoWarStorecom: some of the very best products And a lot of. you have never shopped at InfoWarStore. You've been watching for years, you've been listening for years, but you've never taken the step to go to InfoWarStore. These are great products that really work and are amazing. Plus, they keep us on air. So again, please take action. Go to InfoWarStorecom today. I thank you Live from the SummitNews headquarters. it's Paul Joseph Watson. So the trans insurrectionists are staging a violent riot inside the Tennessee State Capitol building- more volatile, more unruly than basically anything we saw on January 6th. They certainly aren't being chaperoned by the building. The mainstream media- CBS News- is reporting that they're staging, in some cases, a silent protest as they literally scream their heads off and get into violent tussles with the police. Meanwhile, Joe Biden, whose first reaction to the horrific shooting on Monday, was to doddle around on stage like the Alzheimer patient- he is not making fun of people with Alzheimer's- very serious disease- but should the president of the free world be in that position? his first response was to come down and mumble about how he liked chocolate chip ice cream and crack jokes about it. That was bad enough. Yesterday he joked again when asked by reporters about Senator Josh Hawley's comments about the transgender terrorist attack being a hate crime. He said: well, if Hawley says it's a hate crime, then it's probably not, even though he hasn't even seen the manifesto, because no one's seen it yet. And I'm going to get onto that Again. he's joking with reporters, and he's done it again, Telegraph headline. There you see the clip from yesterday where he's asked about it by the reporters laughing and joking about it. He actually says: oh, it's not a joke, It's not funny. at the end Even he realized what he'd done. Why is he smiling? Headline. Joe Biden branded a disgrace for joking around after Nashville school shooting And he's done it again in a meeting with Tom Hanks. Joe Biden has been branded a disgrace for making jokes in the aftermath of the Nashville school shooting, which six people died. in a series of ill-timed remarks, Biden made a political jibe at Republican Senator Josh Hawley- I've just mentioned that- But then again fooled around on stage at the White House with Tom Hanks and Rita Wilson, Tom Hanks's wife. I think he has not yet made any plans to visit the Covenant School in Nashville where three nine-year-olds and three teachers were killed by a former student. His response has been branded totally beneath the dignity of the office of the presidency of the United States. Where is Biden? Why hasn't he visited the school? Where's Kamala Harris? She's in Tanzania. He's not coming back to visit the school. His response has been to crack jokes about it. If Trump had done this, it would be a national news story. There'd be mass outrage, And it describes this meeting with Tom Hanks, the actor. Instead of traveling to Nashville in support of the community, he spent Wednesday at the White House celebrating Greek Independence Day, That's more important- apparently Surrounded by Greek-American politicians and community leaders, where he continued to make jokes. Actress Rita Wilson, who is of Greek descent, sang four songs during celebrations in the East Room. After her performance, Biden returned to the stage to praise her, adding: The only thing I worry about is your taste in men. The comment sparked laughter in the room. It's all very funny. Then Tom Hanks was invited on stage and he laughed it up with him too. No plans in his schedule to visit the Christian school whatsoever. Trump blasts Biden's horrible response to Nashville school shooting. This is during an appearance- I think it was last night- by Trump on a television station, Real America's Voice. Trump said: somebody messed up. It was horrible. Everyone was waiting to hear his words and he's talking about ice cream with a laugh. He's laughing about it, he's joking about it. Now we're in serious trouble. That was Trump's reaction. And, again not visiting the school, Biden chose instead to make comments regarding the LGBTQ community Because apparently, of course, after a member of their community killed three children at a Christian school, The real concern is the backlash against the LGBTQ community, literally fulfilling that Norm Macdonald joke Where he said: Yeah, I'm worried about ISIS detonating a thermonuclear device that could kill 50 million Americans, But what about the backlash that Muslims might receive? Biden says if we protect LGBTQ plus individuals, our societies are stronger. Maybe if we protect schools full of Christian children, then our societies might be more immune to this kind of horror. But no, he didn't talk about that. He talked to world heads of state at a virtual event titled Summit for Democracy About a fair and stronger society. quote: when we advance equality and racial justice and invest in young people, protect the LGBTQ individuals, Our societies are not only fair, but they're stronger and more successful. This, of course, is after two days of the mainstream media expressing more worry and concern over misgendering people in relation to the transgender community And, in fact, in the early stages, after the shooting, misgendering the shooter herself. You saw that with USA Today, You saw it with New York Times, You saw it with BBC News, where they tried to blame the police. So the police were confused about the gender. Not really. The police came out straightaway in Nashville and said It's a woman. Only later, when it came out that it was a transgender identified individual, were the media like: Oh, we don't really know, Because they didn't want to upset the alphabet people by misgendering somebody who's just massacred children. God forbid we should disrespect the memory of that cretin. Absolutely incredible. This is interesting, though, Out of the Daily Mail. Nashville shooter was having private counseling sessions with school's head pastor before massacre where she shot his nine year old daughter because he wasn't on site. They're now speculating and the school's denying this, by the way, So it could be 50: 50. I don't know, but it's being reported This transgender terrorist was actually having counseling sessions with the Christian pastor of the school. Now, what does that suggest? that the pastor was trying to convince Audrey Hale out of following this transgender lifestyle in line with the wishes of her parents, who, of course, said that they refused to respect the pronouns of this monster. They thought that she sold all the weapons that were in fact being hidden in the home. Was this pastor involved in trying to detrans this trans identified individual And was that one of the motives for the attack? Former pastor of the Covenant School has claimed that the trans shooter, Audrey Hale, was receiving counseling sessions with the father of one of her victims. It is speculated in this report and others that that footage you saw of the killer wandering around the school was where she was actually trying to find this pastor, who was the father of Haley Scruggs, tragically, of course, killed in the shooting. But the pastor Scruggs was not in the school building And so the transgender terrorist instead, having wanted to target him, simply shot his daughter dead. However, there's a huge grain of salt in this reporting, and it is that these claims have been denied by the Covenant School itself, with a spokesperson telling Daily Mail Metro. Nashville police have been clear: No one was targeted in the shooting and Pastor Scruggs was not counseling the shooter. So again we've seen this, with the media initially coming out and saying, oh, there's no known motive, because they thought the manifesto would remain hidden. They thought they could sweep the motive under the rug. Now they're talking about the parents, disrespecting the pronouns, blaming the parents for the shooting as if it was their fault. Of course we've seen Cenk Wieger and all these other vile people on Twitter suggesting that Audrey Hale was bullied and that we should stop bullying transgender people- Again, complete victim blaming behavior- absolutely despicable. Now there's a sense that this narrative is shifting to well, what involvement did this pastor have in the life of this transgender terrorist And maybe we can blame him? Maybe he was actually being targeted. But again that's contradicted by the fact that the police found maps showing other targets- malls, other schools that had nothing to do with Pastor Scruggs. So I would suggest that, as the school is denying, this report is actually not true. She wasn't directly targeting the pastor, She was targeting the school And that's going to come out in the manifesto. More on that after the break. SummitNews Don't go away. And again I have Infowars to thank for that. Looking back on the day, I was able to ask President Donald Trump two questions. I was so grateful because I truly was classically trained under Alex Jones and under the Infowars team. I really do credit that as to why I'm able to get these types of clips, because Alex's whole mentality was: go where the story is go, where the mainstream media refuses to. So it's not that I'm addicted to the insanity, I'm just addicted to telling the truth and helping the American people And I really do credit Alex for really instilling that within me early on in my career. I'm a huge believer in information. I watch Infowars every day and follow Alex Jones closely. You know why. He can put you ahead of the curve And he's been demonized as a conspiracy theorist. Think about how frustrated we are. if you've been awake for a year or two, Imagine being like an Alex Jones or those guys who've been awake for like decades. Alex has been right on for over a decade. This is reality. It just pays. Truth is stranger than fiction. The revolution of peaceful information is coming And when it comes time, you people are going to be brought to punishment. You're lying to the public. It's disgusting. The media continues to misrepresent what I've said. He may be America's best known conspiracy theorist. Alex Jones has the largest audience in the country, Bigger than any of the networks, The biggest megaphone in the country. We're going to get fired up about the real things, The things that matter: Burning hell, New World Order. I've got some good news. Our high quality supplements really work And we have about an 80% reorder rate with customers. That's the good news. They're amazing. The bad news is around 1% or a little less of our actual viewers and listeners ever go to InfowarStorecom and ever actually buy the products. So you're missing out on these products. plus, it funds the Infowar. Think of what we've done with just 1% of our massive audience actually buying products. Think what would happen if those of you on the fence actually went to InfowarStorecom and got some of these amazing products. I would recommend Turmeric 95 for your joints, your bones, inflammation, to get one of the biggest effects. So you reorder and see how great it is. Also, we've got the super high quality, full spectrum CBD oil that's so good for your neurological systems, your brain, your joints, your bones as well, Or Real Red Pill Plus. Just go, try the product. Fund the Infowar and help us defeat the New World Order together. InfowarStorecom. Ladies and gentlemen, this book, The Great Reset in the War for the World, is a historic book that documents the Globals, in their own words, planned for our future. That is a hellish future. Now you'll be always- while they still allow books- I guess they're starting to ban them- be able to get an unsigned copy of The Great Reset in the War for the World at bookstores, Amazon or InfowarStorecom, But you will never be able to get another signed copy of the book after the signed copies we got run out And there's about a thousand left of them right now. So get your copy of The Great Reset in the War for the World, a signed copy- at InfowarStorecom- And there is a markup there, because this is a fundraiser to keep us on the air. So you won't just have this historic memento and this powerful book, You'll also know that you help keep Infowars on the air. I want to thank those of you that have gotten signed copies of the book or unsigned copies, But I want to encourage all of you who haven't yet to go to InfowarStorecom and get a signed copy and buy a couple of unsigned copies and donate to the library or give them to the local school. This is Infowar. I'm counting on you and thank you for your support. Now it's a fact that there are political extremists who lash out in violence on both sides of the political spectrum, From basically every political movement imaginable. it happens on both sides and it's equally terrible, whoever's responsible for it. The difference is the media narrative, their treatment of the story. after the fact. Many of you will remember James T Hodgkinson back in I think it was 2017.. Again, deliberately targeted Republican shot up a baseball, a basketball practice game- I think it was one of the two, Of course- nearly killing Congressman Steve Scalise. It took days for the mainstream media to even acknowledge that he was a far left Bernie Sanders supporter and he believed the rhetoric that basically, leftists need to start killing Republican lawmakers in order to fight back against then President Donald Trump. Whenever there's a right wing or even a tenuously connected to conservatives mass shooting carried out by an individual with conservative politics, there's an immediate rush to release all the details, all the social media history, any manifesto that's available, so they can weaponize it and use it to tarnish their political adversaries. Strange, then, in this case, that we know there's a manifesto. the police came out immediately and said this individual's transgender identity is related to the motive of the shooting. there's a manifesto, and that manifesto almost certainly contains details of the motive and why this monster did it. Now you'll notice the difference. there wasn't an immediate call to release it. there was an immediate call to cover it up, to bury it, to hide it. Trans advocates decry calls to release Nashville School Shooters Manifesto, reports ValiantNewscom. They cite, of course, this Newsweek report that left wing LGBTQ groups are calling for more focus on gun control and less focus on the transgender shooter's mysterious motives. It should not be published, said Jordan Budd, executive director of children of lesbians and gays everywhere to the outlet. The focus should be on how basically they can exploit it for gun control. PFLAG- very shady name there, an organization for LGBTQ support within families- apparently cited the risk of contagion and told Newsweek the manifesto's contents don't change the outcome of the tragedy. Every time somebody who can be tenuously connected to conservative politics carries out an outrage, they immediately call for the manifesto to be released in full. The social media history is splashed everywhere and used to tarnish their political adversaries- Not in this case, shockingly enough. And yet, as I wrote earlier, Transgender Shooters Manifesto will now apparently be released publicly, but only after the FBI has combed through it. This is from somebody who spoke to the New York Post, the Nashville council member, Robert Swope, who said, quote: the manifesto is going to be released. it's just a matter of when. There are some incredibly brilliant psychological minds and psychological analysts combing through her entire life, and that is the FBI behavioral analysis unit. Some people have questioned- and you can't blame them- whether the FBI is actually going to release this manifesto in full. If they've got control of it, how much of it will be redacted? to protect the LGBTQ community, as Joe Biden in his comments earlier has said, is one of the biggest priorities. after this transgender terrorist shot three children dead, Presumably once we get the manifesto in the name of protecting the LGBT community, Of course the media reports and the immediate aftermath of the shooting focused in on Tennessee restricting drag queen performances in public venues and, of course, on banning what they call gender affirming care, which is basically chemical castration of children, puberty blockers, hormone treatment for children who, without even consent of their parents- and they're doing a similar thing in schools in the UK, which I'm going to get on to say they identify as non-binary, as transgender, after in their confused embryonic minds, having been re-educated, socially engineered, indoctrinated, brainwashed with that very canon in the public schools themselves. So the media came out and said this has got something to do with Tennessee doing this, using that in a way to justify the shooting itself, which is particularly sick, but at least acknowledging that that was likely one of the motives of the shooter? will it come out in the manifesto or will it be a different narrative, which I spoke about before the break, where they're trying to make it into the direct personal targeting of this pastor and a personal grievance? because if they run with that narrative, they can then circumvent having to ask serious questions about whether this very small fraction, this trans activist movement, is becoming radicalized, is becoming violent, is becoming more dangerous, especially given now, of course, as we've seen them taking up weapons, training them, staging trans day of vengeance on April the 1st, which will still go ahead, by the way. you'd think they'd maybe look at the optics and think a transgender terrorist has just killed three infant children. should we cancel an event which is literally called the trans day of vengeance, which some supporters have posted images of themselves with firearms in support of that trans day of vengeance? is it wise, is it reasonable, is it cogent to maybe put that on ice for a week or two? no, it goes ahead anyway. these people, of course, have no common sense because in many cases they're mentally ill. back to the manifesto. revolver news reports, LGBTQ activists fighting tooth and nail to keep transgender shooters manifesto buried. they know that the FBI is going to comb through it and it's apparently going to be released. after that but say there's a catch, the FBI will pour over the document and likely redact much of it. secondly, the release date is still unknown, so they're speculating. maybe we won't see this for weeks, for months, until after the whole narrative behind the shooting and the focus on it has died down. daily skeptic reports- and I just mentioned this trans day of vengeance to go ahead in DC, despite school massacre by trans activists- that ain't gonna stop them. despite three nine-year-olds being gunned down by a transgender shooter at private christian school in Nashville, activists are still rallying the troops to protest for a trans day of vengeance, months after raising money for firearms training, but they've renamed it, so now I guess it's all okay. it's just a harmless protest, it's not a day of vengeance. transgender shooter Audrey Hale opened fire at the covenant school in Nashville uh killed three children during a rampage, obviously, but despite rising political tensions across the country, which saw a press secretary for Arizona's democrat governor- oh yeah, we had this story yesterday- post a tweet about shooting transphobes, right? so a transgender terrorist has just killed three children in cold blood in a school shooting. this person composes a tweet which is a clip from a movie, of a woman holding two guns commenting about shooting transphobes in the immediate hours after a transgender terrorist has gunned down three nine-year-old kids. that person has thought about that tweet, has hovered over the mouse button and thought: yeah, that's good, I'll send that click. these people are deranged and they're not gonna stop. we'll be back with more on this and on the attack on the activist Hosea Parker in New Zealand by the same mob of people after the break. don't go away. we now have three new game-changing products that are in stock at infowardstorecom. and one of our best-selling products sold out for over a year that's now back at stock. our prebiotic. does any introduction to such amazing things- your gut flora, your overall health, what it does is essential, but read about it at infowardstorecom. and now the fourth toothpaste designed by dad, the last super big hits. this one is really special. it's turmeric concentrate with a bunch of other essential oils- so much more to take your mouth's health to the next level. we also have high quality ashwagandha root for your libido, your stamina, your testosterone, with black pepper extract to accelerate it as a pill. and we have ashwagandha root gummies as well- very strong, very powerful now in stock at infoward storecom. go there, experience these great products and others and fund the info war. the only way we fail is not taking action. god bless you now. please visit infowardstorecom and experience these powerful products for yourself. right now. i'm not talking to the viewers and listeners that have gone to infowardstorecom and gotten the great products that enrich your life, that empower your immune system in your body and keep us on air. i am humbly had in hand. talking to the viewers and listeners that have tuned in many of you for years and never gone to infowardstorecom. we know the vast, vast, vast, vast majority of you never actually go to infowardstorecom and never experience these great products and never find the operation. sure, you share a link, you share an article, you tell folks about the show. that's great and i thank you. but we need funds to operate. plus, we've got really great products that do amazing things for people, like our cbd oil and our fizzy magnesium and our sweet bait and our nitric oxide and our real red pill plus. all of these are really great products. they keep us on air. plus, you're missing out on these products. so get off the bench, get in the game, step to the plate and go to infowardstorecom right now and get these great info wars products at infowardstorecom. i've got some good news. our high quality supplements really work and we have about an 80 reorder rate with customers. that's the good news. they're amazing. the bad news is around one percent or a little less of our actual viewers and listeners ever go to infowardstorecom and ever actually buy the products. so you're missing out on these products. plus, it funds the info war. think of what we've done with just one percent of our massive audience actually buying products. think what would happen if those of you on the fence actually went to infowardstorecom and got some of these amazing products. i would recommend turmeric 95 for your joints, your bones, inflammation to get one of the biggest effects. so you reorder and see how great it is. also, we've got the super high quality full spectrum cbd oil that's so good for your neurological systems, your brain, your joints, your bones as well, or real red pill plus. just go, try the product. fund the info war and help us defeat the ruler together. info war storecom. the fight against the new world order is now the top story in the world. the globalists are in deep trouble, but they're striking back with all their deep state operatives to shut down info wars and other truth tellers like James O'Keefe, Tucker, Carlson and countless others. so please pray for us now more than ever. spread the word about the broadcast and get great products to keep us on air and find our operation while at the same time enriching your life. now we've got three new products available at info war storecom and a best seller back of stock. we have the amazing dr jones naturals turmeric toothpaste. that's so much more. find out more at info war storecom. we have the ashwagandha root pills with black powder extract to accelerate your libido, stamina, testosterone. we have pure ashwagandha gummies at info war storecom as well. these are all the highest quality products. the prebiotic is now finally back in stock. they're all there at info war storecom. so please take action now. enrich your life, empower your body and keep us on air. please take action now. info war storecom leading a frontal assault on the lies of the new world order. it's alex jones, live from london, england. it's paul joseph watson with summit dot news. now, two days before the school shooting, there was another outrage involving this uh, much vaunted transgender community, and that took place in new zealand, where a women's rights activist who committed the crime of tweeting. a woman is an adult, human, female. that's it. that's all she did. she set up a speaking event at which women's rights activists who want female spaces protected from grown, hairy men displaying their genitals in public bathrooms and places like that. that's all she wanted: a lineup of women speakers to reinforce female spaces, women's rights, basically, old-school feminists. posy parker- that's the name she goes by. no, that's not allowed. she has to be viciously, violently attacked by this huge mob who, by the way most a lot of them- weren't even transgender identified individuals. they were just huge, six foot two, grown men, not even pretending to be women. she was mobbed, she was attacked. she was also doused with uh soup, tomato soup by this transgender activist who has now literally fled the country and has entered america, presumably because he tweeted that he was on a plane going to america. this is a literal fugitive, now fundraising on an online platform to protect himself against legal ramifications for assaulting posy parker. this headline is out of redux dot info, which is an excellent resource on this kind of insanity. new zealand trans activists charged with assault after attacking women's rights campaigner. trans activists who threw tomato juice on a women's rights campaigner during a free speech event in auckland has been charged with common assault and again, this took about two or three days for this individual to even be charged after a massive online backlash. they probably wouldn't have done it otherwise because, as posy parker herself said, when this basic riot, this mobbing, was happening, where are the police? the police allowed her to get attacked. she had a few security guards, thankfully, protecting her. she said at the time or immediately after, she thought she'd be dead if she fell down. she'd be trampled on. she'd be absolutely mobbed and attacked. eliana rubish akin, also known as eliana golberstein and eliana rubinstein, is a male who identifies as transgender and intersex- whatever that is, uses they them pronouns. march 25th, rubish kin attacked women's rights campaigner kelly j keene- that's posy parker's real name- during what was supposed to be a peaceful women's rights demonstration. again, as i explained, keene had arranged for a speaking tour of new zealand based around giving women a platform to express their thoughts on gender ideology. she was forced to cut the tour short and this was wasn't even the first incident. she went to australia. same thing happened. police held back, let a literal riotous mob attacked her. happened again in auckland. rubish akin dumped a liter of tomato juice onto her and her security detail. and this same individual is now putting out videos on twitter claiming that his his life is under threat because of this backlash against the assault of posy parker. they cry out in, they lash out in pain, or they cry out in pain as they lash out and attack you. they do that every single time, like david pacman, the guy who tweeted: oh, i guess the the kids at the school who were slaughtered just didn't pray hard enough. he gets rightfully criticized for that. then he claims about anti-semitism. he claims he's getting threats. they do this outrageous behavior, in this case with this transgender activist, physically attack people and then claim that they're the victim- the cry bully syndrome every single time. videos of the incident have since circulated on social media. you've probably seen it by now. following the event, rubish akin gave an interview where he claimed that he targeted keen because her words are blood, because they're killing our people. tweeting a woman is an adult, human, female. that's apparently killing people again. it's this demented, warped agenda idea that words are violent. so if they characterize words with which they disagree as violence, not only can they get that person censored, they can get them actually physically attacked by the police can get them actually physically attacked and think they can get away with it. information on rubish akin's charge was first reported by newsable, which received a statement from rubish akin where he again claimed the assault, suggested he was comfortable facing justice. quote: listen to this: i did assault her and i'll do it again, and if i need to be 10 years in prison, i'm happy to be 10 years in prison. well, it doesn't seem like that because, despite his words, rubish akin fled new zealand shortly after being made aware that police were planning on issuing a warrant for his arrest on charges of assault. his latest travel related post suggests he's now left australia and is en route to the united states. this individual posting on twitter on my way to new york slay and has actually launched a fundraiser for personal security needs on this website called give a little. bear in mind, not even kyle written house. people with, uh, lesser involvement in actual violence than kyle written house, despite that, of course, being completely justified given that he was under violent, deadly attack- use platforms, like you know, go fund me and different fundraising platforms for any political cause, basically not even particularly controversial causes, because they're conservative, because they write their right wing, they get banned immediately. this individual, who has been charged with assault and has fled the country as a fugitive, goes on give a little dot co, dot nz and he's raising money for security expenses and has so far raised over nine thousand dollars in just a few days, while this individual is literally a fugitive, charged with physical assault, pretending to be a victim and grifting off of the back of it, and this donation platform is facilitating an actual fugitive criminal in the raising of this money- absolutely incredible behavior. let's go quickly to this first video, though. otherwise i'm not going to get through any of them. this is about a power lifter who responded to the canadian power lifting union saying transgenders can identify as any gender by entering one of the competitions and trying to prove a point. this is called the proof is in the pudding. here it is. canadian power lifting union recently announced a progressively inclusive new rule. their trans inclusion policy said transgender power lifters would be able to choose which gender category they compete in- quote, whether or not they have undergone hormone therapy. rv silverberg, a powerlifting coach, decided to put this to the test. silverberg, now, identifying as a woman, stepped up to take part in the heroes classic powerlifting, meet women's bench press. and here's what happened. competing in the 84 kilograms plus women's category, silverberg broke the record rv set out to prove that gender self-identification policies in sport were completely unfair. and well, as they say, the proof is in the pudding, but it gets better. sat in the front row watching silverberg smashed the record was an andres, a trans-identified biological male. you'll be shocked to learn that andres has won eight out of the nine competitions he's entered in the women's category. but in a video andres himself shared, he mocked how bad women were at power lifting. um, why is women's bench so bad? i mean standard bench in powerlifting competition for women. i literally don't understand why it's so bad. hmm, gee, i wonder. and maybe it's because you have 20 times more testosterone than them. just a thought: campaign group icons women praised silverberg for his demonstration, proving the utter insanity of gender self-identification policies in sport. what rv so obviously points out is that policies allowing men access to women's sports completely remove any integrity in women's competitions. the organization said it doesn't matter how rv expresses himself or perceives himself. he clearly does not belong in women's sport, and neither does any other male, regardless of their motivation for wanting to participate. well, and told me it was because the women just weren't good enough. why is women's bench so bad? so the fight against the new world order is now the top story in the world. the globalists are in deep trouble, but they're striking back with all their deep state operatives to shut down info wars and other truth tellers like james o'keef and tucker carlson and countless others. so please pray for us now more than ever. spread the word about the broadcast and get great products to keep us on air and fund our operation while at the same time enriching your life. now we've got three new products available at info war storecom and a best seller back in stock. we have the amazing dr jones naturals turmeric toothpaste. that's so much more. find out more at info war storecom. we have the ashwagandha root pills with black powder extract to accelerate your libido, stamina, testosterone. we have pure ashwagandha gummies at info war storecom as well. these are all the highest quality products. the prebiotic is now finally back in stock. they're all there at info war storecom. so please take action now. enrich your life, empower your body and keep us on air. please take action now. info war storecom. every time i talk to you, you're either like on the border exposing the cartels and like coming under fire, or you're on the streets of some american city hanging out with drug addicts and criminals and now you've gone to ground zero of a massive chemical spill. are you addicted to the dangerous savannah? have you ever considered that for a second? no, i'm addicted to helping my fellow americans. i'm addicted to spreading the truth and again, you know, i have info words to thank for that. looking back on the day, i was able to ask president donald trump two questions. i was so grateful because, you know, i truly was classically trained under alex jones and under the info wars team. i really do credit that as to why i'm able to, you know, get these types of clips, because alex's whole mentality was, you know, go where the story is, go where the mainstream media refuses to. so it's not that i'm addicted to the insanity, i'm just addicted telling the truth and helping the american people and i really do credit alex for, you know, really instilling that within me early on in my career. ladies and gentlemen, we have a new toothpaste that my dad, a retired dentist and oral surgeon, developed- dr jones naturals tumor toothpaste. that just came into stock and i gotta tell you i got samples of this months ago and it is amazing the way it makes your gums feel. what it does to your mouth is insane. we know turmeric is an antioxidant and anti-inflammatory. it does such great things to the body. then you add that with tea tree oil and a bunch of other essential oils, it is just dynamite. it is so good to detox and attack inflammation in your mouth. i want to challenge everybody to try the new toothpaste at infoworkscom: dr jones naturals turmeric toothpaste. and, while you're at it, check out the new ashwagandha line of products. we have ashwagandha with black pepper extract for your libido, your testosterone, in pill form and we have the pure ashwagandha root gummies as well, now available at infoworkscom. they're amazing products and they fund the info war. take action now at infoworkscom. ladies and gentlemen, info wars has proven itself the last 28 years to be over the globalist target and having the biggest effect out there against those tyrants, and we fund our operation with viewers and listeners support while selling you great products at the same time. so i want to thank all the viewers and listeners who have supported us over the years by spreading the word, praying for the broadcast and buying product. but i really want to encourage those of you that have been on the fence. i've never actually gone to infoworkscom to go there and get the great books and films and supplements and survival gear that's there that won't just empower you and enrich your life but again will keep this broadcast transmitting. so whether it's real red pill plus or super high quality cbd oil or the 50 off or a great fizzy magnesium product, or whether it's down and out or a sleeper that's back in stock, it's all there. our turmeric 95 percent humanoid strongest out there- tumor 95, it's all available at infoworkstorecom and it keeps us on the air. so make the decision to enrich your life, to keep us on air. infoworkstorecom, leading a frontal assault on the lies of the new world order. it's alex jones. you're listening to the summit dot news radio hour with paul joseph watson. now, in this final segment, i really want to get to these two final videos on the issue of the motorist uprising in the united kingdom, because this is another example of good news: a genuine grassroots, organic backlash against population control, against mass surveillance in the united kingdom. and god forbid, some surveillance cameras get broken. oh no, we don't want that. will someone think of the poor cctv cameras? reclaim the net reports. london has pushed back against invasive traffic cctv designed to enforce low emission zones. this is the embryonic climate lockdown. this is net zero. this is the great reset. these cameras are now being set up, expanded across the entirety of london. they've already had them for central london for probably over a decade now. now they're expanding the system to cover the entirety of greater london. how it works is: if you have a car that has emissions that they don't like, that they've categorized as not eco-friendly, basically you are subject to this ules expansion zone. if you travel in one of those cars- typically cars built produce manufactured before 2015- you're going to get fined 12 pounds- 50 a day, which is over 15 dollars every day- simply for getting around, simply for driving your car. this is basically a tax on the poor, most people who own cars, you know, a decade, 20 years old. they're poor people. they can only afford that level of vehicle. onerous punitive fines on the poor under the guise of environmentalism, when in reality it's total population control, because the metropolitan police has direct access to all these cameras. so it's just a giant expansion of the surveillance network. it's another grand revenue generation scam, feasting off of poor people even as we enter a cost of living crisis. and it's absolutely unconscionable. but- and this is what the video is about, the first one at least- this great reset, this net zero, while it's being implemented by globalist bodies, top-down totalitarian authorities, wef- and, on the local level, local government councils, in the guise of the pursuit of net zero, the foot soldiers who are actually enforcing it, the green police, are eco-mentalist loons who are now literally setting up green roadblocks in residential streets, manning them as de facto climate karen checkpoints. this first video is called incredible scenes. let's roll it. green police aren't waiting for the day when cars are completely banned, we're all forced to return to an agrarian age of misery and abject poverty. no, they're already enforcing the system themselves. a shocking video out of lefty outpost oxford shows eco-loons blocking residential roads to prevent cars from passing. to be clear, this isn't an extinction rebellion protest. this is just some quiet back street in suburbia. literal eco-starzy roadblocks staffed by enviro goons who think that wearing a high vis jacket gives them any kind of authority. hello, have you got any right to stop here? uh, yeah, you'll see this thing. no, through motor vehicles. this is yeah. do you go to work? uh, yes, i'm on my way to work. yeah, how's the time you're going to talk to my friends about 15 minutes. yeah, you stay here just all your day just wasting people time. uh, no, enforcing the traffic bar. so have you got anything to show me that you can stop me? yeah, excuse me, i want to see you. no, you look, they have a homemade sign. therefore, they get to play traffic cop. doesn't work like that, don't understand. yeah, don't worry, i want to see if you go. something that showed me that you can stop me. no, no, no you. can you stop me to go through there? no, but if you go through, you will get a fine. okay, i want to get through. it's a great shame you can't sort of think a bit more about no, okay, it's a great shame you haven't been indoctrinated with alarmist propaganda like our call: can you, can you open, please? thank you, if i get a fine, i will film you going through. i will film you going through and report you to the authorities. okay, don't worry. okay, can you move now? i'm late. i need to go to work. excuse me, move, i'm going to get a fine. you got my everything now. you move now, okay, a passerby then sticks up for her. excuse me, you're taking it. excuse me, i said you to move now. just go listen, listen, you move now. you took everything about me. don't worry, i will get a fine. i will get a fine. i will get a fine is not your mind business move. but these imbeciles still think that having green hair and an obnoxious, holier than thou attitude gives them the right to exercise power over everyone else. i'm late, i need to go to work, i've got a life, i've got keys. oxford is a testing ground for 15 minute cities, which simultaneously don't exist and are a baseless conspiracy theory, according to the media, while local technocrats openly prepare to enforce them via networks of license plate scanning surveillance cameras that will issue fines every single day for people simply trying to get to work in the morning. it's not a climate lockdown, though. oh, you can't say that. here's a few permission slips will graciously grant you, so you can sometimes travel through the city, maybe if you behave yourselves. this is just a taste of what kind of busy body control freaks will be empowered if we allow the insanity of net zero to accelerate. now let's go to this final video, because the backlash to all this is growing. this is called the motorist uprising. let's roll it. there's an uprising sweeping the united kingdom, but it's not being led by the usual suspects. motorists are mad as hell and they're not gonna take it anymore. these vulgarities. ltns have been popping up all over the country, particularly in london, as part of sadik khan's demented war on cars. residents have suddenly discovered that planters have been used to block off keyback roads and, although local councils are responsible for setting them up, they're being illegally manned by climate karens running de facto roadblocks. this is leading to volatile confrontations with people who are simply trying to get to work. so have you got anything to show me that you can stop me? yeah, excuse me, i want to see you now. you move now. okay, that's in oxford, where thousands of people have protested against ltns and plans for 15 minute cities, where residents will be forced to use outer ring roads and find just for driving through the city. of course, as with everything done under the name of environmentalism, it has nothing to do with the environment and everything to do with population control. all eco-mentalist nimbys are achieving is causing more congestion and pollution in other areas of towns and cities, but so long as they get to cosplay as the green police, they don't care, but furious motorists up and down the country have taken the matter into their own hands by setting them on fire. road closed road, no longer closed. rochdale council had to pause a plan to expand their use after these incidents. ltns are a leftover from the lockdown era, but they were never removed and more are being added every day. other people are simply driving around them, while some motorcyclists are choosing to use the pavement instead, despite threats of surveillance camera, monitoring and fines. meanwhile, in london, sadik khan's expansion of the u-less zone is causing another motorist uprising. people who drive older cars, poor people mainly, will be forced to pay 12 pounds- 50 a day, every day, just to get around. the installation of u-less cameras is currently being accelerated before their rollout in august. problem being, people across the capital are now blocking them off using shopping bags, boxes, whatever comes to hand. well, that's what i like to see in the morning. u-less camera. get up there. boy oh no, how awful. net zero is being imposed on us, despite there having never been a referendum, a public debate, nothing. they just announced it. we were never asked. but now people across the uk are answering in their own distinct ways and the answer is no. and the response to this rebellion on behalf of the authorities is simply to label all the people who are protesting against it nazis. anti? u-less protest: hijacked by nazis, says sadik khan. sadik khan has claimed nazis have infiltrated anti? u-less protests in his latest attack on the opposition to the expansion of the zone. what happened was that people protested outside ealing town hall, pictures of sadik khan on their placards, the london mayor and then a swastika banner drawn on the face of sadik khan. they were saying he's the nazi. they weren't supporting the nazis. this is just plain vilification and demonization of good people. that's going to wrap it up for summit news. war room is next with our destroyer. keep it locked in. i'm a huge believer in information. i watch info wars every day and follow alex jones closely. you know why. he can put you ahead of the curve and he's been demonized as a conspiracy theorist. think about how frustrated we are. if you've been awake for a year or two, imagine being like an alex jones or those guys who've been awake for like decades. alex has been right on for over a decade. this is reality. it just paid and truth is stranger than fiction. the revolution of peaceful information is coming and when it comes time, you people are going to be brought to punish. you're lying to the public. it's disgusting. the media continues to misrepresent what i've said. he may be america's best known conspiracy. alex jones has the largest audience in the country, bigger than any of the networks, the biggest megaphone in the country. we're gonna get fired up about the real things, the things that matter: burning hell, new world order, info wars, tomorrow's news, today, this is their big move. so yeah, you say, why doesn't biden address the disasters in the united states? he doesn't care. that's not his job. he's not the president of the united states, he's a puppet operating for the globalists. appetites of the autocrat cannot be appeased. they must be opposed. and that's who. autocrats only understand one word: no, no, no, exactly. and that's why we say no to your vaccines. we say no to you shutting down our businesses. we say no to you taking our firearms. we say no to you censoring our free speech. we say no to you selling us out to the world health organization. we say no to you getting us into world war iii. you're right, we stand against autocrats like you, joe biden, and we say no. and we say no to your war leading a frontal assault on the lies of the new world order. it's alex jones.We posted this online so that people can contact these people. Let them know. Let them know: Do you want informed consent or do you want them to sell out to the lobbyists? Tom Renz, a patriotic American freedom fighting lawyer, has been sounding the alarm on the awareness of Missouri House Bill 1169, a bill that merely requires the labeling of products that can alter your genetics, requires companies to share info on transmissibility of gene altering interventions and also requires fully informed consent to be given for any vaccine, gene therapy or medical intervention. a crucial bill template that should have passed years ago in every US state. Yet the rhinos in Missouri, led by the Democrats and Republican House Speaker Dean Ploecher, are slow-walking Missouri House Bill 1169 through committee to prevent it from being approved this session. Missouri lawmakers are claiming that the labeling requirements would be different from other states and they are worried it might scare people to know the truth, Passing good bills to protect Missouri farmers. As Renz points out, the answer is the lobbyists. Big Pharma has no legitimate basis for publicly arguing against an informed consent disclosure bill, so they have tried to get the agriculture lobby to do their dirty work. This is also because the agricultural bioengineers and Big Pharma are one in the same Bayer. Big Pharma owns Monsanto, which is one of the largest seed producers in the world. Big Pharma does not want people to know they're going to use food to alter their genetics. It's two pages, by the way. No writers, no jokes, nothing, just very straightforward. You can read it. It's House Bill 1169. in Missouri. This has become the most contentious bill in Missouri history. The mRNA gene therapy type drugs- and, by the way, when I say that, just for anybody that doesn't know, I have Moderna's documents. They call it a gene therapy. They've been working on it for more than at least two decades. So what they did was they went to the egg community. They went to Missouri Cattlemen's Association, the Missouri Corn Growers Association, Missouri Pork Association, Farm Bureau, soybean growers. They went to these guys and said, hey, we need you to oppose this. Now, remember, the two largest holders of egg in this country are Bill Gates and the CCP. The vaccine rollout is now a failure. They're not getting food to people like you and me and our friends. They're not able to get this material into people's veins with a needle, So now they'll go to Plan B and try to get it into our bodies with the food supply. The globalists don't want the United States to exist, let alone be strong. I'm looking at all these, you know food processing plants going up in fire and flames and trains derailing. I mean this never happened before 2020 in the United States- vanishingly rare. Doc P, here up here in the north side of the Ohio River, Understand this. This country is under attack. Our food source is under attack. This is unconventional warfare stuff. This has gone beyond just fifth generation warfare. This is a straight up attack on our very existence. We need to understand that and we need to be serious about it, have solutions. In 1992, Morris Strong, secretary general of the UN Earth Summit and member of the Club of Rome, said it is clear that current lifestyles and consumption patterns of the affluent middle class, involving high meat intake, consumption of large amounts of frozen convenience foods, use of fossil fuels, ownership of motor vehicles, small electrical appliances, home and workplace air conditioning and suburban housing, are not sustainable. Point is this all fits together right Like: take over the farmland, buy up the farmland, leave people unable to grow their own food, raise their own cattle, raise their own sheep, whatever it is, And then you have to eat the Frankenfood that you know has been bought up and contaminated at the levels that you're describing, by Bill Gates, by China. It's horrific. To the silent majority it has never been clear that the New World Order is blitzkrieging and kamikazing from every direction, While Obama's legalized propaganda machine keeps the neural pathways of the willing minority gaslit and sedated, maintaining the psyop that silent weapons of mass disruption and extinction aren't waging a quiet war on an unsuspecting humanity. If Hitler was still around he'd be sitting back thinking I didn't need bullets for a global takeover, And he'd be right. John Bowne reporting Bingo, bingo, bingo. If Alex Jones runs for president in the Republican Party, he has a chance of winning. If you just tuned in, you may be noticing I'm wearing an Alex Jones for president 2024 shirt. I am not seriously planning to run for president. This is an idea. the crew had to have a triggering shirt, kind of next level. Alex Jones is right. There's Infowarscom in the back, Alex Jones for president 2024 on the front. It's a fundraiser shirt. It's made out of really nice fabric, It's high quality And it is a exclusive shirt to Infowarsstorecom. And when the shirts are gone, they're gone. We're doing one run of Alex Jones for president 2024 shirts And we'll have a historic memento: be able to spread the word, meet a lot of like minded people and you'll be able to keep us on the air. No way, No way. That's a bridge too far, That's no, it can't be. And I said on national television that he was going to win at Infowarsstorecom, Waging war on corruption. It's Alex Jones coming to you, live from the front lines of the Infowar. Ladies and gentlemen, we are live on this Thursday, April 6th 2023.. Worldwide transmission. I am your host, Alex Jones. All right, I'm going to be here for the next three hours And then the amazing, informative, fiery dynamic, Drew Hernandez, one of my favorite talk show hosts, one of the smartest people I know will be. he's also a pastor- will be hosting the fourth hour today. So that'll be an hour long information news sermon that I'll definitely be tuning into while I get things done in the fourth hour around the office. And, of course, I'll be back tomorrow, 11 am to 3 pm as well, with a weekday show, and then this Sunday, 4 to 6 pm- bare minimum probably do a special Saturday show as well. Okay, here's what I want to do today. I've cleared the decks of guests and I want to take a smorgasbord of calls from the listeners- first time callers on any topic you want to raise, any topic you want to discuss, But I'm going to cover news for the first 30 minutes or so. throw some of the topics out there, then give the number out and have open lines, intersperse with news and breaking information as it all unfolds. But wow, is the news not completely insane? Now we've been focused a lot on the Trump deep state coup and we'll cover a lot of those developments here today, obviously, But while we've been watching that, what one hand's doing, the other hand's been doing this. We'll cover this next segment. Here we go again. Dr Fauci was at a town hall with Jim Acosta three days ago and said there will absolutely be an outbreak of another pandemic and maybe next year. Can a Republican DA please indict this death doctor and find out what he knows? Now we actually know that they created the virus years before they released it. It was a big scandal in 2015 when Obama had it developed by Fauci. It's a weak version of super powerful versions they've got. They've also got weaponized Marburg ready to release. that kills 90% of those that are infected. That makes us about 95 times stronger than the COVID variant that was first put out. They created the whole deal, They gained a function. It's all been out for three years. I had the man, the professor, that authored the chemical and biological weapons laws that are on the books today in the United States and helped write the world treaties on in February and March of 2020, detailing absolutely every facet of this. They did the CRISPR gene editing scan, knew how it was manmade and knew exactly who made it. and then, slowly, over the years, mainstream news has to admit it's true, After years of them blocking, even questioning: did it come out of a lab? but it came out of Chapel Hill, North Carolina, came out of the University of Texas, and it was then fenced into China to be released so they could have plausible deniability that they did it- And I hate communist China, but they didn't release this and you've even seen top scientists in Redfield and all of them say this came out of US labs because they know the Pentagon was instructed to build it by Obama. They did. the Pentagon put the grants out through the NIH and others, and then the Pentagon ran the fear campaign, the sensor campaign, the force injection campaign and not an enemy of our military, but the Pentagon has been seized by the globalists and is in control. So you have Robert Kennedy Jr saying that, You have Dr Peter McCullough saying it, but you had countless others saying it and the evidence coming out in the emails and documents and meetings of congressional hearings. but we had Dr Francis Boyle on three plus years ago, dozens of times. he was on a couple times a week for months specifically giving you the entire battle plan of the enemy. So when Fauci says an imminent new virus is coming out- like he did in 2017, that Trump will be challenged by a novel virus that will change society forever, they had the gun loaded and pointed at our head and they pulled the trigger. So that's just one of these articles that we're going to be going over today. Then, obviously, we've got the issue of Alvin Bragg. out of all the horrible Soros DAs, he's one of the worst. The one in Austin literally calls people at meetings comrades and is a communist, and he let two people that shot a whole bunch of folks last year on Sixth Street just out of jail in a couple days. just oh, you shot a bunch of people. you're being released. They had a Soros DA in Fort Worth. Remember the 17 year old black man, black teenager- shot and critically wounded three people and he was out the next day. So as long as you're black or brown, you're allowed to commit crime. And I got a bunch of clips today, including the mayor of Chicago. You thought the last mayor what a clown, Lightfoot, Admiral Ackbar. it's a trap if you thought she was bad. the new guy is a Marxist-Leninist who says the police should have no jurisdiction over brown people. White people can be policed, but brown people should not have any police period, which is a way to kill a lot of brown people. I mean, the main victim of black crime are black people, especially in Chicago. What a oh. but that's your civil right to not have the police respond. okay. Newly elected Chicago mayor, Brandon Johnson, said black people should not face state sponsored policing. He wants his own leftist police. That's what communists do. So we're going to be going over that. That ties into study. over 72% of New York City violent crime suspects freed without bail go on to commit more crimes. And it is crazy- And when I say crazy, we read articles and see stories 20 years ago out of Australia or the UK where somebody breaks in your house, assaults you, you kill them or fight them off, you go to jail. Well, it just happened in New York last week. In fact, I forgot to cover that. You guys print me the article about the parking garage attendant charged with attempted murder and illegal possession of the gun because he took the gun away from the guy that shot him and shot him. I mean, I know that doesn't even make it through your brain. My brain doesn't process that either. Right? Someone's robbing cars. You go up and talk to them. They shoot you. You take the gun away and shoot them. You go to prison. Yes, I just said that. That's who has charged the 45th president of the United States with an indictment that doesn't allege crimes. It says you covered up other crimes, but does it say what the other crimes are? Absolutely dumbfounding, flabbergasting, poleaxed. And then we've got more video. White House press secretary says it's not for us to decide if killing Christian children constitutes a hate crime, But she did say last week that the attack shows that there is a suppression of our trans people. And Biden said trans are the soul of the country. That more election meddling. ABC News blurs out Trump donation number. They don't do that for Democrats. Oh I Already. it's being reported around the country that literally no one is buying Budweiser or Bud Light. You shouldn't buy any Anheuser-Busch products ever anyway. it's a globalist company, But they advertise: we're the common man, We're the average Joe, We're red, white and blue. Yeah, maybe 20 years ago, Budweiser is a globalist company and they hired the lunatic Dylan Mulvaney, and you know, to be the woman of the year and all the rest of it. She's a woman of the year about a bunch of publications and said: this is what a woman is. Well, now Nike has piled on and is mocking women at sponsoring transgender activists, promote sports bra. So this is all just the psy-op to destroy the country. And yes, why would Nike destroy themselves? Why would Anheuser-Busch destroy themselves? Because they're all weapons systems. The Rothschilds and Rockefellers have quadrillions in money. Why would Hollywood commit suicide with all the things they've done that made people hate them? Because everything is being weaponized: The NFL, the NBA, children's programming, education, the medical system. It's all a weaponized attack on America to take us down. so there's no example of freedom. Period, The corporations are at war with you. Period, We'll be right back. Stay with us. I'm a banned man in America. Alex Jones, I want you all to know something: Alex Jones was right. Alex is right about far more than is wrong. Alex has been right on toward over a decade. I don't care how you slice it, dice it, flip it up or rub it down. Alex Jones was right. Think about how frustrated we are. Imagine being like an Alex Jones or those guys who've been awake for like decades. Alex Jones called this years ago. Years ago. Alex Jones never bought the Russia hoax- not for a second. You are one of the great thinkers of this. You are a martyr to the First Amendment. The government fears Alex Jones. That's why the globalists hate me is because I'm exposing their corporate worldwide tyranny. I intend to take the Infowars armored truck out, or the Infowars tank, as it's so lovingly called. You came through yesterday and shopped at Infowarsstorecom, So I'm going to be able to take the truck out. There is a war for the future happening right now. There is a war that will control my destiny, your destiny, our children's destiny, And that war is something that we can win, But it takes dedication, It takes commitment. That's why I asked listeners respectfully to go to Infowarsstorecom and buy great products that will enrich and empower your life while keeping us on air at the very same time. Infowarsstorecom to get a signed or unsigned copy of my book, The Great Reset in the War of the World. Ultimate Bone Broth- Back in Stock. Nitric Boost- the amazing CBD oil we have. that's the highest quality you're going to find anywhere at more than half off. It's all available at Infowarsstorecom- Some of the very best products, And a lot of you have never shopped at Infowarsstore. You've been watching for years, You've been listening for years, but you've never taken the step to go to Infowarsstore. These are great products that really work and are amazing. Plus, they keep us on air. So again, please take action. Go to Infowarsstorecom today And I thank you. Every time I talk to you, you're either like on the border exposing the cartels and like coming under fire, or you're on the streets of some American city hanging out with drug addicts and criminals. And now you've gone to ground zero of a massive chemical spill. Are you addicted to the danger, Savannah? Have you ever considered that for a second? No, I'm addicted to helping my fellow Americans. I'm addicted to spreading the truth And again, I have Infowars to thank for that. Looking back on the day, I was able to ask President Donald Trump two questions. I was so grateful because I truly was classically trained under Alex Jones and under the Infowars team. I really do credit that as to why I'm able to get these types of clips, because Alex's whole mentality was, you know, go where the story is, go where the mainstream media refuses to. So it's not that I'm addicted to the insanity, I'm just addicted to telling the truth and helping the American people. And I really do credit Alex for, you know, really instilling that within me early on in my career, Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones, Shooter Jennings and the Summer Rage bring in a scene. I inspired this great album more than 13,, 14 years ago and it predicted the police state we now live in. Chaos is hanging around A tree to the ground, shuttered from the sound, The death machine. The death machine ain't slowing down, It's gaining power. And the song gets into: forced injections and vaccines. You and I. they will forcibly vaccinate and put us in the mass graves. They're preparing us for an all out police state, the entire world being put into artificial upheaval, turmoil and revolution to bring in the New World Order. You'll own nothing, you'll have nothing and you will be happy. You will eat the bugs, All right. All of this information is a theme of the globalists attacking us through asymmetrical, fifth, sixth, generational warfare. All of it to undermine society, to create a new dark age. except for high tech reservations, the globalist corporations and governments will control, And I'm going to tie the poison shots into what they call fluoride. It's more than fluoride. It's like the so-called vaccine isn't a classic vaccine. It's an MRNA function- Well, a gene therapy. it's the same thing with the fluoride. It's hundreds of toxic chemicals- up to 300 on average, about 380 plus- that are in some of the samples that have been tested that are dumped in your municipal water supply. and it lowers fertility and lowers IQ And since fluoridation began in 47, IQ has dropped more than 20 points on average. in the United States They've got IQ tests. they've done in towns. in the UK, only about 20% of the UK is fluoridated. People that live there over several generations have lower IQs than those nearby and they're less fertile. This is a weapon system. The globalists want to dumb down the West, impoverish the West, destroy us, so we're not seen as something to aspire to by the third world that's been totally enslaved. Now, if you go back to early 2017, Trump had gotten into office and Fauci got up and said: Trump will be challenged by a new virus, a new pandemic, And we now know that he engineered it and it all prepared with Obama and the deep state. That's all come out even in Congress. We're going to play that clip in a moment. Now he's come out in yet another cryptic statement three days ago on April 3rd. We're going to play that in a moment, But first here he is, in 2017.. I have been around for a while and have had the opportunity and the privilege and the pleasure of serving in five administrations. I thought I would bring that perspective to the topic today is the issue of pandemic preparedness, And if there's one message that I want to leave with you today based on my experience- and you'll see that in a moment- is that there is no question that there will be a challenge to the coming administration in the arena of infectious diseases, both chronic infectious diseases in the sense of already ongoing disease, and we have certainly a large burden of that- but also there will be a surprise outbreak And I hope by the end of my relatively short presentation, you will understand why history, the history of the last 32 years that I've been the director of NIAID, will tell the next administration that there's no doubt in anyone's mind that they will be faced with the challenges that their predecessors were faced with. So for those who think that infectious diseases is gone, there's so many people who've made foolhardy statements, not knowing at the time. So they love to tell you what they're going to do and telegraph it to their minions because they all celebrate in the open criminal announcement. So there's even worse clips than that. Two years before the outbreak he's on C-SPAN with all the different federal heads of agencies- Health and Human Services, EPA, FDA, heads of universities- and he says: we're going to need a new virus, probably out of China, something like bird flu, to blow up the old system, where it doesn't take years to get a shot approved and we're just going to roll all the mRNA out and take over. So that's what they've done. Now they're like: oh, we've got mRNA for cancer and mRNA for depression and oh, it's just everything. It's so wonderful, It's totally safe, though we're not going to test it And all the real studies show it hurts you. So here we go again. Now this is him on television April 3rd bragging saying there will absolutely be an outbreak of another pandemic. It may be next year. Here it is. So if we really want to prevent the next pandemic, and there will be one. there will absolutely be an outbreak of another pandemic. It may be next year, or it may be in your grandparent, your grandchildren and your great grandchildren's lifetime- We don't know. So now he's being a little more couched. Now again, documentaries have been made, books have been written. We've done thousands of shows on this. We have his emails, We have the witnesses, We have the documents, We have the congressional testimony. They created it, They released it to then roll out the solution. that's even worse: the poison shots. But what is next year? That's the election year. When did Alvin Bragg request the judge to launch the eight week trial he estimates, of Trump at the beginning of the primaries, right through primary season to dominate the news coverage. All a big production. Now, since I mentioned the fluoride, here's some of the reports on it: Report linking fluoride to lower IQ in children, made public after CDC HHS tried to block it. It's a report from the bureaucrats and the government looking at 50 plus years of studies and current new studies and showing neurotoxicity, not to mention attacks on fertility, increased bone cancer. the list goes on and on. Now you need a little bit of calcium fluoride as a trace element in your food and it's very good for you. A very small amount. Look the studies up- and it's naturally in the water. It's naturally in some foods. On average- I saw a study last year- What is put in one brand of powdered eggs- wait for this- is over a million times what your daily allowance of calcium. fluoride is Now what they call fluoride in the water and anybody can just look this up. there's been even national news casts admitting it. of all places is dozens, hundreds or up to 380 plus chemicals. one batch out of China got studied over a decade ago. We had Dr Conant, who was head of the whole university department at the time in toxicology, came on in chemistry and they looked at just one of the main companies we buy- quote fluoride from- from China. it's their toxic waste. it had 380 plus- remember he says 383 chemicals, including lead, mercury, arsenic- the list went on and on. And the type of fluoride it has in it is hydrofluoroacic acid. I always butcher that hydrofluoroacic acid, which again has been made highly toxic and highly reactive in the body. It's an acid, one of the most dangerous and dissolved body parts, but that's just one of the deadly ingredients. We'll talk about this when we come back and HHS the admiral, the dude that says he's a lady- he is very handsome- I will say that joking. looks like a child molester. I'm not saying he is, he just wants to have access to your children and sterilize them, which is worse. We'll be right back to talk about this. on the other side, They decided to not perp walking, not put him in handcuffs, not do a mugshot, because they knew that that would help. Trump didn't. they know this would backfire. We were waiting for the mugshot. we learned today they wouldn't have it. so we've made our own and it says political prisoner with an image of president Trump. the shirt is being printed now in Texas. it will be shipping out to you in one week. Political prisoner with Trump on the front there in a mugshot jail background. it's a fundraiser shirt. it says infoawardscom on the back of the shirt. We also have Alex Jones for president. no, I'm not running for president. it's a really nice navy blue, high quality shirt. red, white and blue. Alex Jones for president 2024,. it's a fun, conversational piece and a limited edition shirt. great way to fund the operation. so get your Alex Jones for president and Trump mugshot shirts at infoawardstorecom or by calling toll free triple A: 253-3139.. I talk a lot about the great successes Info Wars has had. I don't think anybody can deny it, and it is because of listeners and viewers supporting us. When we talk about the crew at Info Wars- people behind the scenes, the researchers, the writers- they really have been the MVPs in this fight, and when you look at Harrison Smith and Owen Schroyer and the hard work they engage in every day- five, six, seven days a week- it's really just incredible. so for myself and the whole Info Wars crew, I thank you for your past support and I want to encourage you now to realize that Info Wars cannot stay on air if you do not support us. I know you spread the word, I know you pray for us and that's wonderful. keep doing it. but most viewers and listeners never go to infoawardstorecom and you never buy great products that enrich and empower your life all at the same time. keep us on air. I know that less than one percent of our listeners actually go buy products at infoawardstorecom. if just one percent more of you took action and went to infoawardstorecom, our funding problems will be over. please take action now. I intend to take the Info Wars armored truck out, or the Info Wars tank, as it's so lovingly called. you came through yesterday and shopped at infoawardstorecom, so I'm going to be able to take the truck out Right now. I'm not talking to the viewers and listeners that have gone to infoawardstorecom and gotten the great products that enrich your life, that empower your immune system and your body and keep us on air. I am humbly, hand in hand, talking to the viewers and listeners that have tuned in- many of you for years and never gone to mfolarstorecom. We know the vast, vast, vast, vast, vast, vast amount of people that have gone to M Folar Storecom and never experienced these great products and never found the operation. Sure, you share a link, you share an article, you tell folks about the show. that's great and I thank you, But we need funds to operate. plus, we've got really great products that do amazing things for people, like our CBD oil and our fizzy magnesium and our sleep aid and our nitric oxide and our real red pill. plus. all of these are really great products that keep us on air. Plus, you're missing out on having these products. So get off the bench, get in the game, step to the plate and go to mfolarstorecom right now and get these great M Folar's products at mfolarstorecom, Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the new world order. it's Alex Jones. You've found it: the tip of the spear, It is the Alex Jones Show. We are back, live broadcasting worldwide on this Thursday. transmission Alright, let's talk about absolute, bonafide proof. these people are out to get us. Since the mid-1940s, mainline scientists said you should not put what they call fluoride in the water. It gives you dental fluorosis, it gives you bone cancer, it attacks fertility, it lowers IQs, it is highly toxic and it is an adjuvant in that it is an acid that helps bring toxins through the blood brain barrier. It supercharges death And you can go to Google even, and type in: Harvard: studies confirm fluoride lowers IQ. There are literally thousands of them. They know exactly what they're doing. In fact, the most popular fluoride until about 30 years ago, when they banned it, was fluoride And you'd just sprinkle it on the ground and roaches would walk through it, lick their feet and die. So this is an extreme, extreme poison, ladies and gentlemen, And under federal law they're allowed to put hundreds and hundreds of toxins in it and call it fluoride. There's one Harvard study: impact on fluoride and neurological development in children 2012,. massive IQ reduction. That was a condensed 27-study group. Now they looked at over 200 studies and found cancer, infertility, lowered IQ and the list goes on and on. But that's okay because we have the deputy head of HHS, Trani. HHS head hides report on fluoride toxicity in children. The story is on Infowarscom and Bandvideo on the Red Pill TV channel. But because it's an admiral and a beautiful woman who does want to keep secret gender transition brainwashing for elementary students and a wonderful, creepy person, it's okay because, well, that's what Rachel Levine says. So Rachel Levine tried to hide the report And here's where you can read about it. Report: leaking fluoride to lower IQ in children- made public after CDC. HHS tried to block it. The good news is they're not blocking it. It's like they tried to block the Pfizer internal study that it was killing a bunch of people with the so-called COVID shot A top HHS official blocked release of long delayed fluoride toxicity review. internal emails reviewed for over a year and a half. Health officials delayed report leaking fluoride to brain harm. This is Mother Jones. This is mainstream news reporting this Yahoo Finance. suppressed government report finding fluoride can reduce children's IQ- made public under EPA lawsuit. So we have to sue to get the government's own reports. But I just showed you university government reports from 12 years ago saying the same thing: Dental fluorosis, cancer, lowered IQ, infertility. These are weapons systems being used against us. And look, I know as an audience of great activists who are the engine behind our success, warning humanity know that, but the general public still doesn't get it And there have been hundreds of national news stories attacking me over the last 20 years or so Didn't happen the first nine years of my operation. Jones is insane. He says the tap water is not safe. You should filter it. He just wants to make money. Well, absolutely, I want to sell the highest rated water filters that will cut all of this crap out, because it's something good to sell. you Like selling somebody when their 16 year old gets a car? Hey, you should buy one of these used Volvos. They're very safe. I mean, if I was going to sell cars, I'd try to sell a moral vehicle that was a good vehicle and that was reliable and that was safe. I'm not going to say what brand of car my wife drives, but I drive American cars. But when I drive my daughter I get in my wife's car. I like a dangerous American car that's like a tinfoil can but it goes 250 miles an hour. Don't drive my six year old daughter in it. I get in my wife's European car that has a double steel titanium cage in it And one day, when I wasn't in the car, a idiot woman in a Jeep hit my wife and daughter going about 60 miles an hour when she was at a red light in the back and it broke one of the steel cages, bent it in about half a foot and the Jeep was crushed three feet back in. Now I'm only using that as an allegory to break down the fact that we want to protect our children as much as we can. These people are bombarding our children with these weapons. So yes, we sell the Alexa Pure Breeze made by the My Patriot Supply Ready Hour Group. It's been around about 15 years- became the biggest company in the last six. They went out, hired engineers, reverse engineered the fancy best water filter system out there that sells for twice the price, And they made it as good in all the studies. It reduces things to non-detectable levels- thousands of chemicals, But you can go pay two or three times. There's four or five other filters out there that are just as good We sell and it's not a plug- here it is, but it's really about reality. The very best, highest-grade water filtration system for half the price of leading competitor. And the media says we're bad and a cult for telling you you should filter your water. You should also filter your shower water. That's another way you absorb this crap. But I'm done talking about that. The point is you can get the filters at m4storecom. They're discounted right now. finally back in stock. All the supply chain breakdowns: they've been sold out for six months. These people are out to get you and you can't just sit there and let them do this to you. You can't just not mitigate it. It's like not owning a gun in a high crime area. You're crazy. You need to filter your water, You need to know how to use a gun, You need to not eat a bunch of GMO, You need to get sunshine, You need to take your vitamins- And I'm not up here preaching at you. I'm just saying God's given us ways to mitigate it. But think about the level of premeditated evil to get up there and all the TV programs and all the stuff you've seen, not just having me but everybody else saying no, it's conspiracy theorists, even back to Dr Strangelove in 1964.. The water's safe. You should drink it. No, it's not. It's not safe anywhere, even in farming areas with wells. It's full of glyphosate, It's full of Roundup, It's full of crap And that's what's killing us. But I'm the bad guy for telling you to protect yourself. They're the good guys telling you there's no problem and suppressing reports that they know one of the biggest causes of cancer and low IQ and infertility is the so-called fluoride. that is weaponized, concentrated, electrified acid-based molecule that if you take pure fluoride and you stick your hand in it for two seconds, when you pull your hand out, all the skin is going to slide right off it to the muscle. If you've got the power and the willpower to stick your hand in that fluoride for three minutes, your arm's going to fall off when you pull it out with the bone sticking out. We've had the engineers on that. have seen it. You can throw a dead rat in the pool of fluoride. They all got to be wearing mask and full hazmat gear. They've done it. There's been demonstrations of it. That rat is dissolved in three minutes. Hydrofluorosolic acid is the third most deadly acid on earth, the most powerful. It's like the movie Alien When you cut it and that stuff drips out. that's what we're talking about. In fact, it eats through metal and concrete in minutes And they've got our children drinking that. This is a psychotic death cult period case closed out to get you and your family. And now they're putting the GMO shots in the cows that it breeds in their meat. You eat the meat there. We've got to stop them. We're talking more about their weapon systems. Get the number out when we come back. We've got big news on the trans cult, not just Budweiser pushing it, Now it's Nike. This is going to be critical information. Stay with us. They decided to not perp walking, not put him in handcuffs, not do a mugshot, because they knew that that would help Trump, Didn't? they know this would backfire. We were waiting for the mugshot. We learned today they wouldn't have it. So we've made our own And it says political prisoner with an image of President Trump. The shirt is being printed now in Texas. It'll be shipping out to you in one week: Political prisoner with Trump on the front there in a mugshot jail background. It's a fundraiser shirt. It says info wars dot com on the back of the shirt. We also have Alex Jones for president. No, I'm not running for president. It's a really nice navy blue high quality shirt. red, white and blue- Alex Jones for president- 24.. It's a fun conversational piece and a limited edition shirt- Great way to fund the operation. So get your Alex Jones for president and Trump mugshot shirts at info war store dot com or by calling toll free: triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine. Every time I talk to you, you're either like on the border exposing the cartels in, like coming under fire, or you're on the streets of some American city hanging out with drug addicts and criminals. And now you've gone to ground zero of a massive chemical spill. Are you addicted to the danger Savannah? have you ever considered that for a second? No, I'm addicted to helping my fellow Americans. I'm addicted to spreading the truth And again, you know I have info wars to thank for that. Looking back on the day, I was able to ask President Donald Trump two questions. I was so grateful because, you know I truly was classically trained under Alex Jones and under the info wars team. I really do credit that as to why I'm able to, you know, get these types of clips, because Alex's whole mentality was, you know, go where the story is go where the mainstream media refuses to. So it's not that I'm addicted to the insanity, I'm just addicted to telling the truth and helping the American people, And I really do credit Alex for, you know, really instilling that within me early on in my career. Thousands of former Nazis went to work for the United States government. A flying disk has been found and is now in the possession of the army. Here is a bulletin from CBS News: President Kennedy has been shot. This is a different kind of war. The USS Liberty had just been attacked by Israeli jets and computer hosts. The CIA could manipulate the news in the United States. They took the babies out of incubators and left the children to die on the cold floor. It was almost as if it were a plan in place. It just tanked him. We need to go into the Capitol. You will always have conspiracy theories. They are nothing but distractions. You guys censored Harvard, educated doctors. You silenced those voices. What we want to do in Davos is push the reset button. As soon as we start exposing the great reset, the sooner these globalists start going to prison. I talk a lot about the great successes Infowars has had. I don't think anybody can deny it, And it is because of listeners and viewers supporting us. When we talk about the crew at Infowars- people behind the scenes, the researchers, the writers- they really have been the MVPs in this fight. And when you look at Harrison Smith and Owen Schroyer and the hard work they engage in every day- five, six, seven days a week- it's really just incredible. So for myself and the whole Infowars crew, I thank you for your past support and I want to encourage you now to realize that Infowars cannot stay on air if you do not support us. I know you spread the word, I know you pray for us. It's wonderful to keep doing it, But most viewers and listeners never go to infowarsstorecom and you never buy great products that enrich and empower your life while at the same time keeping us on air. I know that less than 1% of our listeners actually go buy products at infowarsstorecom. If just 1% more of you took action and went to infowarsstorecom, our funding problems will be over. Please take action now, Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones. Thank you for your time. You can find the archive or the live feed at infowarscom or Bandaw Video. We're also showing some B-roll footage of when we got a tour of the Austin Water Treatment Plant, They said no cameras, but we secretly shot all of it. We'll go back to that here in just a moment. I'll show you the same signs I'm about to show you right now. But look at this. This is a material safety data sheet that I have here in front of me. MSDS is a document that details the hazardous components of a product, Its characteristics, effects on human health, as well as its handling precautions. And this is the data sheet for hydrofluorosolic acid or acid-based fluoride. Health hazard highest rating for deadly, Number three, extreme danger, hazardous, And it's listed at a four. It's an oxidizer, an acid, It's explosive And it goes on and on and on: May deteriorate, Shock and heat, Violent chemical change, Unstable. So that's what Rachel Levine, the admiral, says is good for you And something that you need to drink if you're the children. So it wants to cut your children's testicles and penises and breasts off Because it's a program of sterilization and death that they make fancy and cool and fun and are right And they're suppressing what the fluoride does to you and your family, as I showed you last segment. But you can see the ratings on it right there: The highest level danger ratings listed on it for toxicity and poison. Now let's continue. What is this? This is a weapon system. They didn't have guided missiles in Japan. The Germans had just invented them with the V1 and V2s and V6. But they had humans that could fly the planes into our aircraft carriers. Anybody can type in the Lexington aircraft carrier that survived more than 30 kamikazes. It's now in Corpus Christi, Texas. You can see it And the kamikazes flying into the aircraft carriers, flying into the ships. There they are flying into the Lexington's, The Grey Ghost as she's called. They tried to sink it in World War II in Vietnam and couldn't. And when you see Nike destroying itself, endorsing Kaepernick and endorsing woman of the year being a man, when you see Budweiser and Bud Light doing it, you think this is crazy. The central banks have quadrillions, They control all the money And so they don't care if they ruin the NFL or the NBA or Hollywood or Nike or Anheuser-Busch, because they have unlimited money to just stand up new groups and new organizations. Disney doesn't care. They want to destroy every franchise. They want to destroy Star Wars. It's a cultural takeover, It's scorched earth, It's information warfare. And so you ask: why do they destroy themselves Suddenly. they admit I've got articles right here And people shot video in Austin and other areas. I've got that in the stack And there's giant piles of Anheuser-Busch and Bud Light. No one's buying it. They keep restocking it because used to they were, And there's just huge piles of it everywhere because three days after they made some crazy dude saying he's a woman, They're spokesmen, men who mainly drink that beer because they think it's blue collar and tough. No, I'm never drinking that again. Why would they do it? Because it's a weapons system And I knew. when this happened last Friday or last Saturday, I said: watch, All the other big corporations will now hire the same individual and make Dylan Mulvaney the spokesperson. So now Knight came out and said: man, let's join that And let's immediately, as fast as we can, hire him to do this so that Knight can get on board and everybody else can get on board. So you're just totally overwhelmed with this lunatic colonizing women's spaces, knowing full well- obviously a comedian- that he's getting massive money to play along with the system as a mercenary. They want it as revolting and ridiculous and as mindless as possible. Knight's accused of mocking women. we're going to play the clip in a moment with audio after sponsoring transgender activists to promote sports bra, And we're live right now. I didn't send the clips to the crew but in post. when this is posted to me in that video it's actually over here in the stack. I want to add the photos and videos, Not a Kid Rock blowing up the mud light, but of Austin and H-E-B and the giant piles of the Budweiser products that nobody's buying. We'll add that in post. We don't have it but it'll be added in post. But everybody knows it's piling up everywhere, so we'll have that later added to this. So here is the video of Dylan Mulvaney running around saying he's officially a sponsor or being sponsored by Nike. So there you go, ladies and gentlemen. Again, this is a weapon system. When you go to the gun store and you buy a box of .357 Magnum or 9mm or .308, whether you're shooting out of a handgun or rifle, you know. when you shoot that at a target or at a deer, it's gone. But if you had unlimited money, you could fire as much ammunition as you wanted. And that's what the trans agenda and the fluoride and Mulvaney and the fentanyl and the open borders and all the shows showing men being idiots and men not being the leader of the household. All of this is unlimited ammunition with unlimited money to take every institution and demoralize you and break your will. The NFL's gone, The NBA's gone, Hollywood was always gone, basically. And so they just think once they overwhelm you with every institution pushing this, you'll finally roll over and give up. Instead, you have to simply reject all of these institutions and realize they are captured, controlled institutions, and you've got to support the independent new institutions that aren't controlled by the globalists, who can't be bought and who won't back down, because you can't make us run and you can't starve us out. You can't starve us out and you can't make us run because these old boys were raised on shotguns. We say grace, We say amen, And if you ain't into that, we don't give a damn. Our morals and what we stand for is king. But you've got to realize the power you've got in this fight to hold the line. We're winning, but just barely. They've got all the ammunition and all the money, but we've got our wills and our souls. that can't be bought. Once they get the cash of society in shutting down all the farms they think they can starve us into submitting to them. That's why we all start producing food and our own systems so that we're not under their control. And that's why you support independent media like mfoawastorecom. DNA Force Plus with PQQ and CoQ10 cleans out your mitochondria, your cells, makes your telomeres last longer, Doesn't make them grow, makes them not shrink as fast. That's the fountain of youth. as low as you're going to get. 40% off, despite the fact it's selling out. Real Red Pill Plus: super powerful formula with a plug, loan and more. Energizes your natural hormones in a natural way. Great for women, great for men, especially folks that are over 40. Incredible, couldn't operate without it. 40% off, despite the fact it's selling out. And, yes, very excited that the Trump mugshot t-shirt we have and the Alex Jones for President shirt are doing extremely well. We have in stock the Alex Jones for President. We're printing. It'll go out very, very soon. We say three weeks on the side. It's coming in next week. It's being printed right now in Texas, But we say three weeks on there, you know, just to be safe. But you will get yours first. mfoawastorecom. Trump as a political prisoner. mfoawastorecom on the back. Be sure and get that. We have our Ultimate Krill Oil. It's the highest grade of krill oil you're going to find It's in stock, ready to ship to you. Also, 40% off. mfoawastorecom or 888-253-3139.. Alright, your calls coming up next hour at 877-789-2539.. First time callers only 877-789-2539.. Stay with us. Alex Jones was right. Think about how frustrated we are if you've been awake for a year or two. Imagine being like an Alex Jones or those guys who've been awake for like decades. Alex Jones called this years ago, Years ago. Alex Jones never bought the Russia hoax- Not for a second. You are one of the great thinkers of this. You are a martyr to the First Amendment. The government fears Alex Jones. That's why the globalists hate me. It's because I'm exposing their corporate worldwide tyranny. Ladies and gentlemen, this book, The Great Reset in the War for the World, is a historic book that documents the globalists, in their own words, plan for our future. that is a hellish future. Now you'll be always- while they still allow books- I guess they're starting to ban them- be able to get an unsigned copy of The Great Reset in the War for the World at bookstores, Amazon or Infowarswarecom, But you will never be able to get another signed copy of the book after the signed copies we got run out And there's about a thousand left of them right now. So get your copy of The Great Reset in the War for the World, a signed copy, at Infowarswarecom- And there is a markup there because this is a fundraiser to keep us on the air. So you won't just have this historic memento and this powerful book, you'll also know that you help keep Infowars on the air- Those of you that have gotten signed copies of the book or unsigned copies. But I want to encourage all of you who haven't yet to go to Infowarswarecom and get a signed copy and buy a couple of unsigned copies and donate them to the library or give them to the local school. This is an Infowar. I'm counting on you and thank you for your support. Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones, Because you can't start us out and you can't make us run Those once and more boys raised on shotgun. Listen to this carefully. We say praise and we say, man, If you ain't into that, we don't give a damn. We came from the West Virginia coal mines And the rocky mountains And the western skies. We can skin a buck And we can skin a buck. We can run a trot line And a country boy can survive. Everything in the future is about knowing how to run electricity, knowing how to generate power, knowing how to grow food and knowing how to kick ass. I had a good friend in New York City And everybody better get back to the land now. On both sides of my family I've been moving back to the land in the last 70 years, But now we're all moving back to the land, Not just my immediate family. I've talked to everybody in my family, both sides. They're all moving the country. They're all getting back to where they came from. And whether you got brown skin, black skin or pink skin- I guess some folks do have white skin, I got, I like my light brown skin. What that is is that you're going to have to decide whether you're going to be a slave or not, And every one of you can be a country boy if you want to be that. We need to get the hell out of these cities. In fact, I'm thinking to start a movement called The Country Boy Alliance, And what the country boy and the country girl alliance means is: we're self-sufficient And listen. all you got to grow is two or three crops or raise one type of animal and know how to be a machinist or a mechanic And you got to live in a community with everything else you need And instead of going to the grocery store- like when I was a little kid, spending two, three weeks of summer with my dad's mother and my grandfather out in East Texas, my grandmother would say Get in the car And we'd drive just ten miles one way and five miles another and back another ten miles And we got back. there was a big old thing of black-eyed peas, big bag in the back of the car, and a big bag of green beans and 30,, 40 eggs and a bunch of T-bone steaks dripping blood and some cabbages and some carrots and some pickles And they'd eat on that for the whole week and then she'd go out in her own garden and pull some turnips up. I remember my grandmother sticking pumpkins in a food processor and a day later eat the best damn pumpkin pie you ever ate. And she had a master's degree in English and taught college the whole nine yards. But the point was she knew how to skin a buck, she knew how to run a trot line that she could pick up when she was 70 years old, her grandmother's .22 rifle and she could shoot a cowbird at 60 yards in the head off her back porch. She had all her bluebirds and all her birds she fed and cowbirds kick other birds' eggs out of the nest and lay their eggs. And boy, she hated those cowbirds. She'd go hold on a minute. She had a picture window back there in the kitchen. Hold on. She'd go on the back porch and get that .22 and step right out there. I probably saw her do it 10 times. every time That cowbird's head was blown right off. And man don't you know when you're five years old. That's so damn cool. You take these lefties from these high-rise buildings and we know how to wipe their ass. I remember my grandfather pulling in at lunch off his tractor. He'd walk in from some cow. he'd butcher in the morning with a brain in a bag. He'd smash it right up in front of me with eggs and garlic and cook it all up. He'd go hold on, I want a little something extra. He'd walk out and shoot a squirrel, nail it down on a board, skin it in about 15 seconds, chop that son of a bitch up and throw it right in the skillet and then feed me squirrel. Now people think of that as some kind of weirdo. That's not weird, That's self-sufficiency, That's somebody that knows how to live and that nobody can starve out and nobody can make run. We want to be like those people again and we're going to be like those people again. We have just begun to fight. my friends. I'll give the number out again and we're going to take your calls and cover a ton of news straight ahead. If Alex Jones runs for president in the Republican Party, he has a chance of winning. If you just tuned in, you may be noticing I'm wearing an Alex Jones for president 2024 shirt. I am not seriously planning to run for president. This is an idea the crew had. I have a triggering shirt, kind of next level. Alex Jones is right. There's Infowarscom in the back, Alex Jones for president 2024 on the front. It's a fundraiser shirt. It's made out of really nice fabric, It's high quality and it is a exclusive shirt to Infowarsstorecom. and when the shirts are gone, they're gone. We're doing one run of Alex Jones for president 2024 shirts and we'll have a historic memento, be able to spread the word, meet a lot of like-minded people and he will be able to keep us on the air. No way, No way. That's a bridge too far. No, it can't be. And I said on national television that he was going to win At Infowarsstorecom. If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance. It's Alex Jones. The preacher man says it's the end of time In the Mississippi River. she's a gold dry. The interest is up and the stock market's down And you're only getting mugged. if you go downtown- I live back in the woods- you see A woman and the kids and the dogs and me. I got a shotgun, a rifle and a four-wheel drive And a country boy can survive. Country folks can survive. I can flower field all day long. I can catch catfish from dusk till dawn, Make our own whiskey and our own smoke too. Ain't too many things these old boys can't do. The real revolution is here, Rediscovering who we are. We grow good old tomatoes and homemade wine. Getting back to the way God designed us Doesn't mean we won't use technology, but we'll use it as a dangerous weapon. Government is like fire: A dangerous servant and a fearful master. Crank the song up. That is such poetry. Somebody who loves God, Hank Williams Jr, but is sick of the fake pastors that don't actually fight tyranny, He'll tell you you're going to hell if you say: damn, They don't do anything to fight the abortion or real tyranny. We say grace, We say amen, And if he ain't into that we don't give a damn. All these hypocrites Form over function. It's a great line written by Millis in the movie, based on a composite of Hearts of Darkness but also real events that happened in Vietnam. so a mix of fiction and fact. When Colonel Kurtz is sitting there saying the Pentagon are total hypocrites. they train our Air Force pilots at 300 feet to drop napalm on women and children, but they court-martial them if they write fuck on the side of their airplanes. You want somebody to drop napalm on people and burn up children, but you're not supposed to say the f-word, And that's the parasitical corruption of the system. We say grace, We say amen, And if you ain't into that we don't give a damn, because we're not a bunch of hypocrites. but when it comes to serving evil, we don't do it And we stand against it, Because a country boy can't survive. The New World Order is going to take everything you got. They're going to take your children's soul. Are you going to keep bowing down to these people? Are you going to let this scum rule over you? It's time to break their will. It's time to say: I don't care what the hell you do to me and I don't know how this is going to end, but if you want to fight, you better believe you've got one, And it is that fighting spirit of truth and justice to raise our children and be strong and be good and be honest, No matter what damn color you are. you got red blood and the creator of the universe made you and you've got to decide. I'm not owned by the devil, I'm not owned by the New World Order and I'm going to do everything I can to work against this system and to defeat it. And the first way you do that is breaking with Hollywood and the Democratic Party and the New World Order and every damn thing they push, because every damn thing they do is death. Everything they do is poison. Everything they do is designed to destroy you and destroy your family. It's not an ongoing decision. You make the decision. you commit to not submit and to fight back with everything you've got. That means not caring about the system and how old your car or your truck is or what your neighbors think about you or any of that crap. What matters is your freedom, What matters is your integrity, What matters is who you are and that you're not for sale ever, And that's why the enemy hates me so much. That's why they hate you so much, because they know we're real, They know we love God, They know we tell the truth, They know we bust our ass to be honorable And they know we're out of their grasp. And so that's why they've hit America, particularly the Midwest and the South and rural areas in the West, with poison in the water and GMO and toxic culture. because they've made the decision we can't make these Americans submit to us. Go ahead and kill their asses. They've banned the MRNA shot all over the world for children. They're forcing it on them here. They're doing everything they can to kill us. This occupied government is not the American government. It's a pack of criminals and everybody knows it, including those that serve it. And I want to talk to the people that serve the corporations and government systems, who are mid-level or low-level or even high-level and know it's destructive and know you can't get out of it by going along with it. The only way you get out of it is understanding that it's a spiritual decision and that you're going to be destroyed by your own actions and inaction. by serving this thing and understanding you're not part of the winning team. You're part of a lie, You're part of a psy-op, And the biggest fools are the people that go along with the destructive death cult, pretending you're doing something for yourself and for your family, when all you're doing is destroying our civilization. and you will never escape the crimes you've committed against humanity. They will come back on you, even if it isn't through the courts, And you will pay at the next level as well, because it's been proven by science. as the ancients said, the third dimension is only a manifestation of the higher dimensions and we are dust that starts with a tiny egg and a tiny sperm that create a design and a template in the third dimension of a higher dimensional energetic vortices of higher dimensional or inter-dimensional energy coming in and forming this electrochemical body that is simply a signature or a vapor trail of our soul and our electrochemical signet. And when you understand you are eternal and that this manifestation of you is a flash in the eye, you will then understand that nothing the enemy can do to you has any ramifications. when you understand this and that you must break with Satan. Alright, the toll free number to join us. we already have loaded phone lines, but I want people to know that as soon as I hang up on a caller, I'd love to hear from her taking first time calls: 877-789-2539, 877-789-Alex. and we are going to go to break and come back with Flagman, Angel, David, Jacob, Drake, Rick Button, Steve David, Josh, Joe and others, because the enemy hates to hear the people come together in the millions to be heard. This is unfiltered, uncontrolled. this drives our enemies absolutely insane, but I love the wild card nature of it: hearing what you have to say, what you have to state, what you have to ask. I have so much other insane news and we'll hit a lot of it here today. obviously we're in a mainline depression. CNN's now admitting, oh my god, the US economy's in crisis because they've begun the stampede on the banks themselves that they want to control and pose as the saviors during. we have a lot on Trump and the incredible disinformation they're putting out. I saw headlines last night on Drudge: Trump threatens nuclear weapons. Trump threatens nuclear war if he is convicted. he's threatening the judge with nuclear war. no, he said Biden's starting nuclear war and we should stop it. what the hell with a citizen and a former president saying we're going into World War 3. we need to stop it. how does that turn into threatening the judge? I have the article right here, but you read the article it has a quote about. he threatened the judge with nuclear war and we all watched the speech. he said we're going into World War 3. we've got to stop it. but the people that still believe that laughed that up. did you hear? he threatened nuclear war. that's why he said he's got to be careful with his death and destruction quotes, because that was bad what he said. but now they're just taking stuff he didn't even do and doing. we'll be right back with your phone calls and a lot of key news. we were waiting for the mugshot. we learned today they wouldn't have it, so we've made our own and it says political prisoner with an image of president Trump. the shirt is being printed now in Texas. it will be shipping out to you in one week. political prisoner with Trump on the front there in a mugshot jail background. it's a fundraiser shirt. it says infowarscom on the back of the shirt. we also have Alex Jones for president. no, I'm not running for president. it's a really nice navy blue, high quality shirt. red, white and blue. Alex Jones for president 2024,. it's a fun conversational piece and a limited edition shirt- great way to fund the operation. so get your Alex Jones for president and Trump mugshot shirts at infowarsstorecom or by calling toll free triple A 253-3139. I intend to take the infowars armored truck out, or the infowars tank as it's so lovingly called. you came through yesterday and shopped at infowarsstorecom, so I'm going to be able to take the truck out, so I'm going to be able to take the infowars armored truck out. I talk a lot about the great successes infowars has had. I don't think anybody can deny it and it is the biggest thing I've ever done. and I'm going to be able to take the infowars and the infowars and the infowars and the infowars and the infowars and the infowars and the infowars and the infowars. and it is because the listeners and viewers are supporting us When we talk about the curue infowars people behind the scenes, the researchers, the writers. they really have been the MVPs of this fight. and when you look at Harrison Smith and Owens Troyer and the hard work they engage in every day, 5,6,7 days a week, it's really just incredible. so for myself and the whole infowars crew, I thank you for your support, but infowars cannot stay on air if you do not support us. I know you spread the word, I know you pray for us and that's wonderful. keep doing it. but most viewers and listeners never go to infowarsstorecom and you never buy great products that enrich and empower your life while at the same time getting us on air. I know that less than 1% of our listeners actually go buy products at infowarsstorecom. if just 1% more of you took action and went to infowarsstorecom, our funding problems will be over. please take action now. there is a war that will control my destiny, your destiny, our children's destiny, and that war is something that we can win. but it takes dedication, it takes commitment. that's why I ask listeners respectively to go to infowarsstorecom and buy great products that will enrich and empower your life while keeping us on air at the very same time. infowarsstorecom to get a signed or unsigned copy of my book The Great Reset and War for the World. Ultimate Bone Broth Back in Stock. Nitric Boost, the amazing CBD oil we have. that's the highest quality you're going to find anywhere at more than half off. it's all available at infowarsstorecom: some of the very best products, and a lot of you have never shopped at infowarsstore. you've been watching for years, you've been listening for years, but you've never taken the step to go to infowarsstorecom. these are great products that really work and are amazing. plus, they keep us on air. so again, please take action. go to infowarsstorecom today and I thank you. I'll see you in the next hour, but I'm going to hit some news each segment. before I go to calls, let me hit this briefly. remember New Zealand's lockdown queen? well, she's now become the internet authoritarian. she is the head of the new ministry of truth they're establishing there. they're setting them up all over the world. we have similar legislation here and they now report. they're hiring Democrat and liberal operatives to run it. put you in jail for 20 years for, quote, disinformation. well, she's going to be the new disinformation czar in New Zealand. so that's her WEF reward after being voted out of office. remember what she said last year. she said: the government is your single source of truth. unless you hear it from us, it's not truth, and it was, of course, all lies. here's that clip from the time machine: most up to date information daily. you can trust us as a source of that information. you can also trust the director general of health, the Ministry of Health, for that information. do feel free to visit at any time to clarify any rumour you may hear covid19.govtnz. otherwise, dismiss anything else. we will continue to be your single source of truth. we will provide information frequently. we will share everything we can, everything you are, else you see a grain of salt, and so I really ask people to focus on that. another example of that appears to be this text, which originated in Malaysia and has become a viral hoax in Australia and in New Zealand. how irresponsible is it that the people sharing that news are the lockdown imminent in New Zealand, and that's the kind of thing that adds to the anxiety that people feel. so I continue to share the message. New Zealanders must prepare, but do not panic. prepare, and when you see those messages, they lied about everything. they put people in jail for leaving their houses. they are just slave trainers. they are just training you to be a slave. so I thought we would get to that piece of information. but know this Fauci just said three days ago: new deadly virus is coming. CDC warns of Marburg virus and deadly African outbreak kills 90% of those infected, they claim, and they are now studying it in African caves to protect us. yes, I am sure that's the case. it's how they get total power and total control in their own war games. alright, Jacob, in Ohio, thanks for calling. you are on the air worldwide. hey, Alex, thanks for taking my call. I just wanted to bring up that, this Trump indictment. I was on the fence about Trump, and so was my family, and after this I talked to my parents, who are 100% behind Trump. there is a reason they are trying to attack him so much and, however, I think there is no way they let him win in 2024, even if he gets 200 million votes. well, that's the problem with election fraud, though. it's very hard to beat a giant tsunami. I think he did get less votes than he got before. the evidence says he still won, but not by the bigger landslide, a mega landslide. they can't stop. that's why I agree with you, though, that they will probably try to assassinate him. what do you think? I definitely hope not. I'll start a civil war if it does. yeah, I know, I think this all stems from abortion. the fact that he helped overturn Roe v Wade by having appointing the justices to do so, the left, that is their, that is their god- is abortion. and you know churches. I go to church every Sunday, I've never heard the word abortion. they don't fight it, they just lay there and take it. it's okay to kill babies, just don't cuss. I appreciate your call and again, I'm not saying cussing is good. killing babies is 10,000 times worse than cussing. oh, don't cuss and don't drink. don't say the word damn. it's not the Lord's name in vain. I've actually studied the Greek. taking the Lord's name in vain is saying damn God is saying I'm not going to actually damn God or actually blaspheme me because I love Jesus and love God. but if you said to God: I want you destroyed down with you, blah, blah, blah down with you, that is blasphemy. that's what the Satanists do when they it comes out. they love to do satanic rituals in churches because that's blasphemous. okay, so that's what blasphemy is. and so my point is: these churches give you all these little things. don't do this to make you feel like you're guilty and mad, but never ask you to go out and actually challenge tyranny. God hates cowards. ladies and gentlemen, let's go ahead and take another call. let's talk to Josh in Texas. you're on the air, Hey, Alex. so I just wanted to basically um, you know, I know you don't like being thanked, but you're awesome, man, um. but I think that we also need to gather all these other patriots, all these other influencers who are like Steven Crowder, uh, Jack Masonic or whatever his name is, all these other people. we need to start really teaching them about the new world order. we need Trump to actually say the words new world order. we need people to actually talk about world government. we need Tucker Carlson on Fox News, breaking down eugenics, breaking down David Rockefeller. you know. we need Trump to understand that the federal reserve is private. we need him to speak out against GMO foods. we need him to talk about all of these issues and I think you have the influence to be able to bring people on and actually sit them down and go through the new world order system and really lace them up. so then you already see Trump coming out against the globalists in the deep state in their world government plan. he's used those terms. Tucker is now, uh, you saw Elon Musk a few months ago at the world government summit saying: world government is a bad idea. you guys are tyrants. so I think we've come a long way, but I totally agree with your statements. yes, sir, I just I want to see Trump actually go after the private federal reserve. they're the ones who really control this country. I want him to talk about the Bilderberg group. you know we need Steven Crowder sounding like you. we need Tucker Carlson sounding more like you. all these other people who you have. they have your ear, you have their ear. well, listen, I do talk to those people, but you got to put loving pressure and information on them as well. but I hear you and that's what we're doing, brother. yes, sir, and I appreciate everything. Alex, I appreciate you. thank you, flag man, in Louisiana, you're on the air. hello good to talk to you. I just have a quick question. if you could time travel and go back to Germany before Hitler did all of the horrible things that he did, would you take him out? would you travel back in time and take him out? I would. I would try to travel back in time and explain to people that British intelligence helped set up Hitler. he didn't work for him, but they set him up to create a whole new war, to bring in the system we have in the UN. but yeah, I mean, I do think that the world would have been better off if Adolf Hitler would have ever been born. there you go now if- and you just answered my second question- if you could go back in time or if you lived during that time, you would talk and talk and try to wake people up and stop what happened through talk. well, my point is: the same thing is going on right now. today. they're killing us through medical tyranny. they're killing us through many different ways that you've already covered this morning: fluoride in the water system, so forth, and so on. they're talking about another pandemic coming shortly, I guess preparing for if Trump takes the presidency again, we need another pandemic. so what is it that we're waiting for? we see the death, we see the control. we see them moving so quickly in these last two to three years against us, constantly talking about their world domination, their world takeover, depopulation plans. what are we waiting for? and I really don't care to win a war of morality. I don't care about a moral victory. I want to live. I want my children to live and prosper. don't hang up, flag man, because you're raising really a central question. I want to come back and hear more from you and I'll give you my response to this. Hitler was actually in charge of Germany. the Germans tried to assassinate him- his own military- two years before the war ended. if they could have killed Hitler, it could have stopped with the globalists. it's an ideology and like a oligarchy of a whole bunch of people. so we have to identify the oligarchy and who they are first, and then we need to start arresting them. but I'm going to come back to you on the other side. please stay with us, kind of next level. Alex Jones is right. there's info warscom in the back, Alex Jones for president 2024 on the front. it's a fundraiser shirt. it's made out of really nice fabric, it's high quality and it is a exclusive shirt to info war storecom. and when the shirts are gone, they're gone. we're doing one run of Alex Jones for president 2024 shirts and we'll have a historic memento. be able to spread the word, meet a lot of like-minded people and you'll be able to keep us on the air. no way, no way. that's a bridge too far. that's no, it can't be. and I said on national television that he was going to win at info war storecom- the most banned man in America. Alex Jones, I want you all to know something: Alex Jones was right. Alex is right about far more than is wrong. Alex has been right on for over a decade. I don't care how you slice it, dice it, flip it up or rub it down. Alex Jones was right. think about how frustrated we are if you've been awake for a year or two. imagine being like an Alex Jones or those guys who've been awake for like decades. Alex Jones called this years ago, years ago. Alex Jones never bought the Russia hoax- not for a second. you are one of the great thinkers of this. you are a martyr to the first amendment. the government dears Alex Jones. that's why the globalists hate me is because I'm exposing their corporate worldwide tyranny. Humanity is in a fight for its very life and info wars for decades has been at the very forefront of the fight for a pro human future. we can't stay on air without your help and I want to thank you all for your past support and I want to encourage those of you that have never bought products and info war storecom to go there and experience how amazing these products really are: ultimate bone broth- finally sold out for over two years, back in stock. real red pill plus simply amazing nitric boost, what it does for your heart and cardiovascular critical. all these products like ultimate krill oil, ultimate fish oil, super melt vitality. they're all available and in stock, ready to ship to you right now. info war storecom and the final twelve hundred signed copies of my book, the great reset: the war for the world- I'm not going to sign any more after that- are exclusively available at info war store com as well. in the last month I got a little busy so I didn't sign the books. we didn't have them for sale. but now I sign the last books and get them right now. info wars, tomorrow's news today. this is their big move. so yeah, you say, why doesn't Biden address the disasters in the United States? he doesn't care. that's not his job. he's not the president of the United States, he's a puppet operating for the globalists. appetites of the autocrat cannot be appeased. they must be opposed. autocrats only understand one word: no, no, no, exactly. and that's why we say no to your vaccines. we say no to you shutting down our businesses. we say no to you taking our firearms. we say no to you censoring our free speech. we say no to you selling us out to the world health organization. we say no to you getting us into world war three. you're right, we stand against autocrats like you, Joe Biden, and we say no, and we say no to your war, leading a frontal assault on the lies of the new world order. it's Alex Jones cartoon produced by the CIA last year for recruitment, for information, warfare against the American people. imagine the type of people they're trying to hire, schizophrenic criminals. alright, I want to respond to Flagman and then go back to him and give him a response to my response. we live in a complex civilization where we've decided to not use force to settle our differences. now, within that so-called civilization, they hide the aggression with the poison fluoride and the fentanyl, and the transgenderism and the genital mutilations and all of it. but you first have to identify the cult and the globalist and who they are, because it's not like Operation Valkyrie. the Germans tried to kill Hitler a few years before the war ended because they knew they were losing and that Germany would be destroyed and Hitler wouldn't give up. they failed. they could have killed Hitler and ended World War 2 and saved 10 million German lives. probably another 10 million Russians got killed in that period, hundreds of thousands of Americans and others and millions of people that Hitler also killed- political dissidents, Jews, gypsies, folks that didn't submit. most of that killing happened in those two years. in fact, the German general staff came to him and said: you're allotting a third of our resources to setting up death camps when our own factories do a better job, because you want to kill these people. that was the final solution. people that deny Hitler killed a bunch of Jews. I mean they had the final solution documents, the papers. the Germans testified, admitted to it before they got executed- that yeah. Hitler said: I don't care. you spend a third of our energy killing these people. he says: we're probably going to lose, but at least I'll kill all these people. so, yes, it would have been better if Hitler had been assassinated or never born. now. that's hindsight's, light years times, 2020. this is not like Hitler, where it's one man that runs it. he was actually in charge. it's bureaucracies, it's boards, it's corporate systems, it's philosophies. it's a cult. we have to kill the ideas of the new world order. we have to pull our children out of public schools and private schools that follow the leftist agenda. we have to turn off Hollywood. we have to go to the grassroots. we have to support the farmers markets. we have to start our own gardens. we have to get back to God. we have to form our new churches that are actually real and oppose all this. we have to live the way we want to live and realize they want to bankrupt things, to isolate us so they can force us to the social credit score by increments to bend us to their will. and so it doesn't matter if Rachel Levine suppresses that fluoride kills kids and sterilizes them and gives them cancer and lowers their IQs. we just expose that and we don't drink the water and we file lawsuits against the local government and we at the grassroots defeat them on every issue and keep educating people. they want us to get violent and they admit that in their own documents that have come out, because we're winning hearts and minds inch by inch. like you ever watch those best football games where, over and over again, they get the first down and it takes them like 14 plays to get, say, from the 10 yard line where they catch the ball on the kickoff until they march just a few yards each time all the way into the end zone. we are marching, marching, marching. so close to the end zone. we got 10 yards to go first down, baby, and we are so close. people are rejecting it. they're everything. so they just, over the top it more, show a unified front, look like they're invincible- they're not. and their own people that aren't pure evil- a lot of them are pure evil, a lot of them aren't- are going. why are we doing this? this is really destructive. this is crazy. they want us to just run out and fight them because that will organize them into the system they want. here's a famous Evian France quote from Bilderberg in the early 1990's. it's been confirmed that since then, Kissinger and others have written books about it. so has Brzezinski, who was his counterpart, saying basically the same thing today. America would be outraged if UN trips into Los Angeles to restore order tomorrow. they will be grateful. this is especially true if they were told that there was an outside threat from beyond, whether real or promulgated, that threatened our very existence. viruses, uprisings, you name it. it is then that all people in the world will plead to deliver them from this evil. the one thing every man fears is the unknown. when presented with the scenario, individual rights will be willingly relinquished with the guaranteed of their well-being granted them by their world government. so the globalists are pounding us with 5G and GMO and poison shots and lab-made viruses and cultural death and all of it. they don't care. if you blow up a federal building, they love it. they don't care. if you go shoot the state police, they love it. they don't care- and I'm not saying you're going to do this. if you go firebomb an abortionary, that makes them the victim and they get even more funds. but if you pull back from them, never associate with them, speak out against them, constantly build our new civilization right in the middle of their cancer. they're the outside force. they won't be able to get any of this done. when I get these calls- and I understand the primitive level: let's be men, let's go fight this, let's go do this- I always say who's doing it? because if we won't put the energy in peacefully, like I've done for 29 years, like so many others have done for even longer, then what will you really do in a fight? and then you always notice when something gets attacked. it's a federal building with a daycare center run by the feds. that didn't hurt them, that helped them. so yes, if God reached down. but God wants to do us ourselves and the Rothschilds and the Rockefellers and Fauci and Gates all got struck by lightning and that's God's decision. I'm not going to launch anything offensive against them. I don't want to make them a victim, but if God decides to strike them down, it would be nice. but here's the problem. now there's Maria Brannovich, the head of the Rothschilds, in front of a painting. Lucifer rallies his armies. Lucifer dominating- what's the name of the painting? Lucifer summons his legions, something like that. so if they all die today, they have all this scum under them. that's just as bad, like shark teeth ready to roll forward and fill their place. they must be politically and culturally non-violently assassinated- their ideas, who they are, and then we can take the government over, and then we can have real grand juries, throw them in prison. and that's how you do it in civilization. now, that's my view on this flag man. but here's the deal: we could get rid of all them tomorrow. if we're not moral and we're not good, we would just recreate it again. this is spirit, this is a paradigm. does that make sense to you, flag man? it absolutely makes perfect sense and everything that you said is absolutely 100%. the moral fight, and I get it. but at some point, as they continue to go on day after day after day, we're losing more, day after day after day. I mean, the longer they go on, the more we die. well, they just hit us with a big bio attack and poison shots and it's completely blown up in their face and the whole world's turning against them. I'm sad they did it. I wish we could have stopped it. I tried to. but I mean, I don't agree with you. are you saying they're winning? Because I don't think they're winning. as far as the death count, they are certainly winning- listen, nobody. but there's a thousand times more of us than them, ten thousand times probably. 400 top globals actually run things. let me explain it this way. I'll hold you over to me again. this is an important call. they, in their own internal documents that leak, say they're losing. they jumped the shark release of this virus. they'll probably release another one and I'll tell you they'll probably release a new virus that might kill 20% of the public. but I think that's when things backfire and I think that's when the military tries to come out and make people go to emergency centers. that's when the rebellion will start, which we're trying to stop, and then I think we'll have governors stand up and other stuff and the military's going to join us because they already know the next attack's coming and I think then that's when it'll become a hot war, if they're dumb enough to do it. I mean, I do think they're going to push us into a corner for a hot war, but it's my job to try to stop that. in the information war, which is 95% depending on, I'll tell you, a war, it is not my purview or my avenue to pick targets or lead military attacks. I'm just setting the battle space about who the enemy is. I'm going to let you make a decision about what you're going to do. I'm just setting the battle space about what you're going to do. Every time I talk to you, you're either on the border exposing the cartels and coming under fire, or you're on the streets of some American city hanging out with drug addicts and criminals, and now you've gone to ground zero of a massive chemical spill. Are you addicted to the danger, Savannah? Have you ever considered that for a second? No, I'm addicted to helping my fellow Americans. I'm addicted to spreading the truth and again, I have info words to thank for that. Looking back on the day, I was able to ask President Donald Trump two questions. I was so grateful because I truly was classically trained under Alex Jones and under the Interwar team and I really do credit that as to why I'm able to get these types of clips, because Alex's whole mentality was go where the story is go where the mainstream media refuses to. so it's not that I'm addicted to the insanity, I'm just addicted to telling the truth and helping the American people and I really do credit Alex for living and spilling that within me. early on in my career I was able to ask President Donald Trump two questions. I was so grateful because I truly was classically trained under Alex Jones and under the Interwar team and I really do credit that as to why I'm able to get these types of clips, because Alex's whole mentality was go where the story is, go where the mainstream media refuses to. so it's not that I'm addicted to the insanity, I'm just addicted to telling the truth and helping the American people and I really do credit Alex for living and spilling that within me early on in my career. I want to get another signed copy of the book after the signed copies we got run out and there's about a thousand left of them right now. so get your copy of The Great Reset and The War For The World- a signed copy- at Infowarswarcom- and there is a mark up there- because this is a fundraiser to keep us on the air. so you won't just have this historic memento and this powerful book, you'll also know that you help keep Infowars on the air. I want to thank those of you that have gotten signed copies of the book or unsigned copies, but I want to encourage all of you who haven't yet to go to Infowarswarcom and get a signed copy and buy a couple of unsigned copies and donate to the library or give them to the local school. this is an Infowar. I'm counting on you and thank you for your support. alright, we're talking to Flagman, but he just hung up so I'll go on to your other calls. I know I said I'd move quick through calls, but his questions were so important. I wish he wouldn't have hung up because I wanted him to give a response back. and I'll just be completely honest with you because I don't want to cop out on this question and I was really thinking about it during the break. when you have people on record that have created bioweapons and that have been caught creating them and releasing them and they say soon there will be new pandemics and their own war games, say, this is how they get total control. and you know their names: Fauci, Peter Daszak, Bill Gates, people like that- if the Justice Department is so controlled and part of this and won't arrest them- and we know they're getting ready to do it again. if I was one of the lab workers or one of their operatives, of course they're all eugenicists, so that's why they've been chosen to improve it. they're part of the plan and I got the order to release it. obviously I would have to take matters into my own hands. so we are really coming up to that point. but we're not like Black Lives Matter anti-war that goes and burns down public housing or shoots cops in the back, and so my bailiwick here is not directing people to go out there against these folks. they are attacking us, they are killing us and they've normalized that, and so I can't morally say people are wrong, who are thinking about this because we should be thinking about it, because they're attacking us. that's where we are. but they want violence and you can bet your bottom dollar. they're going to stage false flag attacks against innocent groups and blame us, and so that's not a wheelhouse I want to enter and I really want to just work as hard as we can to expose the evil and try to stop it that way. so if they're crazy enough to do it again, or at least something even worse, people don't go along with it and then I don't think they'll be able to control the public. I think then you're going to have a giant French-style revolution and it'll probably kill even more people in the virus itself. so this stuff is so dangerous and so uncontained and the globalists are playing with fire here that I don't even like to pretend like I'm as smart as them because I'm smarter. they think they're smart, that they think they can control this, they think they can navigate this, or they're crazy enough to think, well, we just don't care, we're going to do it. this is our mission to dominate and control. so I have millions of listeners. this is a big show. this is not up here. pretend land where we're sitting around playing Dungeons and Dragons and, oh, I'm going to slay the dragon and I'm going to roll the dice. this is the real world, and so I'm going to aggressively expose them. I'm going to break down their plans and I would not want to be Bill Gates or any of these people when their own security people have probably already lost family and if they do it again, they're saying it's going to be bigger. they've already telegraphed that. I don't know how they think they're going to be safe anywhere, because I don't wish to kill Bill Gates, I don't want to kill Lord Rothschild, I want them just to stop being evil and repent. but obviously they're so far gone generationally that they can't do that. it's just that I'm not the guy signing the death warrants here, like George Washington. I mean, if we had a general and we'd already taken half the country and all this is going on, and the general had hearings and captured these people, I'd say, well, you know, yeah, absolutely. but we need some type of leadership and some type of political platform for this, and we have to do that by continuing to educate the public. and we're just not there yet. I'd rather let them know that they're exposed, let them know we're aware of their operations, so they're smart and back off, because they already own and control everything. they've just got a fetish to exercise power. one thing they don't have left is total control over our bodies. so the shots, the viruses, the 5G, the GMO, the drugs, the culture, the brainwashing- it's all about the last thing they don't have. they want the full control of that. and I say, if you're aware of their attacks, and resist it. it makes you stronger, like lifting weights or hiking up a mountain or jogging- and so really educate people, speak out against it. before we talk about going around and killing people, we need to really do our full exercise of resistance, like we've been doing here, like you're doing, calling in. so please don't go out and blow anything up. please don't go out and shoot anybody. vengeance is God's and don't worry. in most analysis of this, this leads into a very dark chapter in the world, worse than it even is now the worst in human history. and if you want blood, you're going to get lots of it. you're going to get more blood than I think you'd ever want, and I don't think you want blood. but I get your point is: hey, they're putting poison in the water, they're GMOing us, they're putting out poison shots. they know they're doing it. why are we sitting here? well, because the public isn't informed enough yet. because they have a captured justice department. but let me tell you, those justice department people, they go and take the shot, their kids get sick, they die, and so they're going to have to experience this and you're going to have FBI agents and lawyers and bureaucrats and members of congress in the next lockdown, where millions are dying, tens of millions, and things are really bad, and they're going to have to sit there and go, wow, we went along with this. and then they're going to sit there and watch their wife, their kid, them, die. they'll have to face God over that. that's the good news, and it's the bad news too is that all these people playing with fire, like the communists and the Nazis and people in cults in history, they're going to get a front row seat to what they did. this dinner they cooked up of tyranny. they're going to have to eat the most of it. so they want to force feed us this crap. they want to suck our children's souls, they want to toy with evil. they're the ones that are going to have to have front row seats to this and there are no spectators in what's going down and what's happening, and so guard your soul, folks. that's what really matters in this. but yes, we're under chemical, biological, radiological, electromagnetic attack and you know you have countless people in the federal government- it's not just the CIA- saying: I'm sick, I'm vomiting, I'm nauseous, I can't sleep, I've got a ring in my ears. what's going on? and well, that's. the general public reports that because they live by a cell tower or the school has record cancers and record sick kids and record leukemia, and then they go: oh, you're just kooks, it's good for you, even though the studies show it. so the CIA is in these buildings with all these giant hidden antennas in the building, even more powerful than civilian antennas, and all these big government airplanes have got super powerful antennas in the fuselages and they're all wondering- I don't know why I'm so sick. the CIA headquarters is being bombarded by something, yeah, by what you live in, and it's the perfect microcosm of how they're sick and vomiting and throwing up and have cancer. and why are we all dying? they think the Russians and the Chinese are doing it. you're doing it to yourself, you're doing it to us. I read all about ten years ago about 5G and cancer and all the rest of it, and the other stuff does it too, but it's not as powerful. it's way more powerful. it doesn't go as far, but it permeates. I remember when they finally put it all in downtown on Congress, all the streets. I'm not a guy that feels bad. I'm out in the country, I feel like I'm in heaven, whether I'm in the desert, the woods, anywhere. but I get in a major city that's got nothing but 5G and I'm coughing and I've got a headache and that's what it says it does and I feel sick because you can't see it with your eyes. but it's there, it's blasting everything and it's not placebo, it's not like, oh, I think I'm going to get a 5G. I'll feel bad. it's like I'll be in an area where it's 5G, where you're in it for a long time driving and you're like man, I can't. oh, and that's what the studies say. manipulates oxygen in the lungs. it even causes skin cancer. I mean, alright, I'm going to start the next hour and I promise I'm not going to give callers more than two minutes. in the last guy, like 20 minutes. we brought up a very important point. Drake and Rick and everybody else, we're going to just bam, bam, bam bam, take your calls. but I think this is a very important discussion to have. but again, these government buildings, particularly intelligence agencies. I'm not going to go on an hour long diatribe, but I've researched what's in there. they've got all sorts of antennas and all sorts of transmitters and all sorts of high powered microwave relay systems. and they've got systems. they line the building with that send a magnetic pulse through the Earth. they communicate with all the ships and submarines instantaneously. takes like a half a second and anybody that's worked around that in the military will tell you you get sick as hell being around. but they're intelligence agency people, they're CIA deputy directors and they're all getting sick and everybody's getting sick in the building and this is really happening. we found no foreign governments are doing it and you're literally in an office surrounded by hidden communication towers. they're inside the building, whole floors are, and then you'll look like on the top floor. it's all communication towers under the roof. you can't see it and then whoever the section chief is is like I've got a bloody nose. I can't sleep, I'm depressed, I'm having hallucinations, there's rain in my ears because three feet above you is like fourteen different communication systems. you dumbass, the hell's your problem, frickin' idiots, because they pretend they're invincible, they pretend they're part of the power structure, they pretend they're the rulers and you're killing yourself like you're killing us, you dumb bastards. that's the big takeaway. nobody's immune from evil, nobody. and it says political prisoner, with an image of president Trump. the shirt is being printed now in Texas. it'll be shipping out to you in one week. political prisoner with Trump on the front there in a mugshot jail background. it's a fundraiser shirt. it says infoawardscom on the back of the shirt. we also have Alex Jones for president. no, I'm not running for president. it's a really nice navy blue high quality shirt. red, white and blue. Alex Jones for president 2024,. it's a fun conversational piece and a limited edition shirt. great way to fund the operation. so get your Alex Jones for president and Trump mugshot shirts at infoawardsstorecom or by calling toll free 888-253-3139. I talk a lot about the great successes info wars has had. I don't think anybody can deny it, and it is because of the volunteers and viewers supporting us. when we talk about the crew at info wars- people behind the scenes, the researchers, the riders- they really have been the MVPs in this fight. and we look at Harrison Smith and Owen Schroyer and the hard work they engage in every day- 5,, 6,, 7 days a week- it's really just incredible. so for myself and the whole info wars crew, I thank you for your past support and I only encourage you now to realize that info wars cannot stay on air if you do not support us. I know you spread the word. I know you pray for us. that's wonderful, keep doing it. but most viewers and listeners never go to infoawardsstorecom and you never buy great products that enrich and empower your life while at the same time give us on air. I know that less than 1% of our listeners actually go buy products at infoawardsstorecom. if just 1% more of you took action and went to infoawardsstorecom, our funding problems will be over. please take action now. if you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance. alright, let's go to Drake, who has been holding patiently from the great state of Texas. Drake, thank you for calling hello. Alex, I've been listening for a few years now. I hear what you're saying about the transgender and how it's evil, but when you talk about Blair Wyatt it's kind of confusing, like do you think he looks good or something? no, I'm not being a hypocrite about that. I do not dislike gay people. I do not dislike adults that have decided to be transgender. I'm saying the system running it is going after children and is targeting them to confuse them and try to get them into that. I don't hate adults as long as they don't hurt anybody else and I've been consistent about that. I don't care if it's heterosexual or homosexual or transgender or whatever it is. stay away from children. I've been 100% consistent and Blair Wyatt has been the same and I think Blair is a very smart, nice person. that's what I said. and Blair Wyatt speaks out against the targeting of children. Blair Wyatt came on like 10 years ago when Blair first went public as a transgender person and said she was against the left and that they didn't speak for her. so I'm not judging people. that's what Blair Wyatt has decided to do with that body and that is what adults can do, like women- get breast implants, whatever. I'm not judging Blair Wyatt. they are very consistent. they say: we hate transgender, we want to stop transgender, we want to hurt transgender. no, the transgender movement. there's always been men that thought they were women. there's always been stuff like that- a very small percentage. but now they are making it the national motto, they're pushing it on the kids and it is a weapon system to hurt our children. right, but you still kind of play along with her and call him or her. so it's confusing because I'm like more like Blair Witch. well, I'll say this: look, when you have a giant fat dude, you know, in wrestling competing against women, or a dude that's two feet taller competing against women and swimming. again, Blair Wyatt is not going into women's sports. Blair Wyatt is not attacking women. Blair Wyatt is not doing any of that. and so I've said that when I've interviewed Blair Wyatt- and I think Blair Wyatt is a very nice person, okay, so that's where I'm at, that's where I've always been- and the left wants to say, oh Jones hates transgender people. and then you're like: hey, you're being a hypocrite. you say you hate transgender people but you like Blair Wyatt as a nice person. no, I never said I hated transgender people. oh yeah, not hate them. but I'm saying we can stand against them and reach out to them, but not play along and keep poses on them. Blair Wyatt said to me after the podcast that you know, you've really taught me about the chemicals and what happened to me and it's really helped me understand what happened to me. so I mean, and I'm not sure exactly what happened to Blair Wyatt, but Blair Wyatt really feels like a woman and is not a bad person, and I'm not attacking her because she feels like she's a woman. I'm simply saying she's not a biological woman. he's not a biological person. it is a nice person, a smart person, a person I like. okay, I think Blair Wyatt is a nice person. I like Blair Wyatt, so I don't hate- I don't hate gay people, I don't hate anybody- okay. I hate the fact that the globalists are pushing this agenda on our children and it needs to stop and our children need to be kept innocent. that's what I'm saying. but she's like on Instagram with like it's like the strategic he's posing on the Instagram with like holding guns and American flags and it's like that strategic capture you talk about. and then it's like pictures with you too and it's like I mean, yeah, it's not a secret that I've been on Blair Wyatt's podcast. it is not a secret. it is not a secret and I did not make it a secret and I told you earlier I am not a hypocrite and I am not up here. I have my own things in my life that could be better. I'm not going to judge somebody that's an adult and has made the decision to live as a woman. I am not against Blair Wyatt, and so if you think I'm like a Baptist preacher that doesn't ever speak out against abortion but tells you don't say the GD. I'm not that person, dude. I'm fighting the big, huge issues. I love God and I love people. I appreciate your call. If Alex Jones runs for President in the Republican Party, he has a chance of winning and when the shirts are gone, they're gone. we're doing one run of Alex Jones for President- 2024 shirts and we'll have a historic memento: be able to spread the word, meet a lot of like minded people and he'll be able to keep us on the air. No way, no way. that's a bridge too far. that's no, it can't be. and I said on national television that he was going to win at infowarsstorecom Music Live from the infowarscom studios. it's Alex Jones Music Music Music. Alright, we're taking phone calls right now. I'm going to go right back to your calls. some stations don't carry the first five minutes but a lot do. that's when they carry news and so a lot of you might have missed the call. it's very reasonable and I appreciate your call. and said you're really worried about transgenderism and our children, but you've gone on Blair White. it was a very nice transgender male to female person who first came on my show as a listener ten years ago to say that they did not believe in targeting children and gun control and the whole leftist ideology attached to Blair White's decision to be what Blair White is. I said I don't hate anybody, I don't want the targeting of children. I don't want the sexualization of children by Rachel Levine. I don't want them covering up fluoride in the water for the children. there's an evil agenda that is behind pushing this to children and Caitlyn Jenner and all the rest of it. that doesn't mean then I hate people. I'm not comparing myself to Jesus, but Jesus hung out with prostitutes and tax collectors and what was seen as the worst in society and he pointed out. but look at the Pharisees. they're doing far worse. the first step behind closed doors. they're hypocrites, and so that's where I'm at. I agree we are who we really are, born as we should accept what God did. the system is trying to confuse that confuse children. but the people that have been sucked in by this- that's why it's gone from one in a thousand being transgender fifty years ago to one in ten in San Francisco with the kids- is because they're confusing them. they ask: little boys, do you like little boys or little girls? I like little boys more. little boys want to play with little boys- oh, you're gay. or little girls: you like little girls, you're a lesbian. so yeah, we know the evil agenda. I spend hours a week, sometimes hours a day, talking about this, but it doesn't mean we hate the individual. if Blair White was saying I want to sexualize children and I want to take kids away from people and sterilize them, I would say Blair White was the devil. we should get Blair White on the show soon. but Blair White's been speaking out for a decade since Blair White went public against that. so all I'm saying is: I don't hate people as long as they're adults and not hurting any innocent people. okay. and so to me to talk about scales of evil- going out and drunk driving where you could potentially kill somebody on a scale of things that's against God- is way worse than somebody getting confused when they're young, going through this process and then now they are this thing and we're going to hate them. and we should reach out to these people so they're not controlled by this ideology. and the left wants to ban the populace, the Christians, the right wing reaching out to people and saying: hey, maybe you're not happy in your gay lifestyle because it's so, on average, corrupt and uses people and leaves you isolated and depressed, not because people are being mean to you because you're gay, but because the lifestyle and the people in it are so incredibly destructive. the gay man or the lesbian woman I'm saying the group you're in statistically- is who is abusing you and the system, likes what's happened to you, as trying to promote it because it sees it as destructive so you won't have children and it'll break down society. they're using you as a victim. and when someone says, hey, I want to be conservative, hey, I want to figure out what happened, hey, I don't like the leftist agenda, that's the beginning of an outreach to these people instead of hating them, and that's really where I am. so I don't sit up here and go: well, you're gay and so I'm better than you because, no, I need to understand that, I need to know that. and then it has any political agenda that's leftist or going after kids. you're my enemy. and they're now trying to get the left and all the people that are confused about what they are to join in the agenda of World War III and open borders and brainwashing kids. they're sucking them all in and telling them we're all out to get them and hate them. I think we should be more Christ-like and tell these people: no, we care about you and we really want you to understand the bigger agenda. we're all discovering this together at the same time. Rob Aguero is one of the producers, one of the researchers in there. he wanted to pop in because I was asked the crew. they were viewed during the break and I think Rob had a very important facet to this. go ahead, Rob. alright, Alex, you hit the nail on the head when you said that it's all about confusion. these people are confused and you're right. we need to lend a hand out and actually help these people. and it goes back to, you know, our caller. he's confused as well because we're pushing or we're not pushing. we're giving a platform to these people to talk, but, like you said, it's because we don't hate them and we need to reach out and help them and anybody else. so everybody who you know, which, for lack of better words, is a Bible thumper who follows Christ very, very heavily- they're confused because we're not disowning them, which they shouldn't be doing at all. we don't hate anybody. they shouldn't be hating anybody, no matter how different their ideology is. we should be lending the hand out and helping them to realize that, hey, this is not. if you're going to live this Christ-like life, then this is not. you want to believe that God gave you the body and you want to trust God, then you need to realize that you might be confused and we're here to help you. so nobody ever hates anybody, especially in this establishment. all we want is society to get along and help people further, because if we keep getting divided and fighting over these stupid things like the Bud Light or like Gillette, I mean, we're only getting further and further apart and they're only winning Absolutely. and everything the system pushes is destructive. and I'll say this: I hate the sin and I can't help it. I hate people that target kids, I hate pedophiles, I hate the globalist, I hate David Rockefeller, I hate Zbigniew Brzezinski, I hate Bill Gates. but at the same time I catch myself sometimes driving in the car just thinking about the most horrible thoughts about my enemies, the horrible things I want to do to them, and God says that's not Christ-like. defeat them, stop them and do that, but don't get on their level, don't give them the hate back. love is more powerful, there's a stronger force, and so that's what it comes down to. I mean I've gone on Blair White's show and explained how they put chemicals in the water to confuse kids and try to target them when they're little to break them up with their families and how that's wrong. and then Blair White agrees: I'm reaching out to that whole audience. and then you read all these transgender people in the comments going: oh, I see why they don't like Alex. he's actually nice. yeah, I do think they're doing this to us. blah, blah, blah. I don't feel that way either. we're not letting the Democrats brand who that group is that's growing and exploding because they've set them up as the victims. Rob, anything else? No, you said it right. I mean they keep coming after their kids and we have to come together like whether you disagree with Blair, with what Blair's doing. I mean she's saving the kids. so at least reach out a hand and be like: hey, let's do this together instead of hating everybody at the same time, Absolutely. and you know the people get back and you said, sheesh, it's a man who believes they're a woman living as a woman. and you can say, yeah, that's a biological man. we don't hate the person, we don't disrespect the person. we understand the brainwashing, the programming, the chemicals that have led to all of this, and we are all in this same process as well. we need to recognize what's been done to us and pull back in a compassionate way, so that those that aren't evil will join us, and then we're going to win. I appreciate you being with us. Alright, I said I get the calls. I'm kind of doing an okay job, but not as good as I've been doing lately, So let's just rampage now through calls, The caller's bringing up great points. we're having larger discussions. David, in Ohio, you're on the air. go ahead. Hey, Alex, I got a good connection. Yes, sir, go ahead. Um, um. There's a lot of problems going on. a lot of people are talking about different types of monetary systems. A lot of people have talked bad about the universal basic income. what I'm proposing is something similar to universal basic income, but a big difference. universal basic income: you have to borrow the money. what I'm proposing is what's called a national dividend. For years, I was the producer for Byron Dale's radio show and we had everybody on with monetary ideas: post office banks, gold bugs, silver bugs, bitcoin, etc. modern money. The best one I heard was from Dick Eastman on the tri-city areas of Washington state. it was a national dividend where the money is created debt free and is given out to the public on a gross national product basis: All money, And then the public decides how to use it and that's a real stimulus. Instead, the globalists want a universal basic income where they say where you can spend it. We could do the reverse of that and say it's got to be spent with grassroots, with organic farms, with local businesses, but again the globalist model will be the opposite, Exactly. so. this is something I don't know if I'll see it in my lifetime. I doubt if you'll see it. There are some steps that can be made. You know, Ellen Brown, with the state bank system, that's a public banking system. It doesn't even have to be a state bank. I totally agree. we need state banks and federal banks. There was a big fight at the beginning of the country over that and we went with the private bank model. I think you have government banks and state banks and local banks, private banks. I think the model is a hybrid of all of them, Absolutely, And I think we should have competing currencies. People should be able to accept whatever currency they want and then the markets that are most conducive to human life will be adopted through the free market, and that's what we'll end up with. Hold on, you probably have more to add. give me 60 seconds more, David. we'll come back. stay with us. Thanks for watching. Thanks for watching. Thanks for watching. Thanks for watching. Thanks for watching. Thanks for watching. Thanks for watching. Go to Infowarsstorecom right now and get these great Infowars products at Infowarsstorecom. Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the new world order, It's Alex Jones, And we are back. Alright, for those of you that just joined us, David just called in. We called him over from Ohio. He's talking about monetary diversity. Instead, we have monetary vertical, vertical, vertical ange banks all over the world and just a few mega banks, and they're bringing out the world central bank digital currency system that tracks what you do, controls what you do, decides where you're going to spend money, devalues money, does whatever it wants. it is the world's digital currency system that controls what you do, decides where you're going to spend money, devalues money, does whatever it wants. devalues money, does whatever it wants. it is the absolute in game of these people, and he's talking about federal banks, state banks, local banks and also private corporate banks. we need more banks. we need more currencies. any other points you'd like to add, David? Yeah, there's just one more point I wanted to make, and I make a lot of enemies when I say this. I want to make it real clear. you'll hear a lot of discussion about our fiat. money is not backed by anything. and I want to make it real clear to everyone: our money, our fiat money, is fully backed. the only way money is created is through a loan. if you get a mortgage, your house backs the money. if you get a car, the car backs the money. if you go to college, your labor backs the money. that's how money is created. and if you can go back to the Federal Reserve Act discussion, there were some smart congressmen. they said, hey, if we do this, what's going to back our money? and their questions were answered: all the assets and all the labor of all Americans back our money and that's the problem. that's what backs our money. so if the Chinese come in and say we got treasury bonds, we want Yellowstone, we have to sell it to them. we want all the docks on the west coast. oh, hey, not just the Chinese. the Brazilian government pledged the national lands, everything to Pfizer to give an experimental shot. so they knew it was deadly, they knew it was a problem, they knew it would cause liability. and then those companies now have the country's mortgage to them. a perfect plan. thanks for the call. perfect, unless it gets exposed. Rick in Tennessee. thanks for holding her on the air. yeah, hi, Alex, it's an honor. honor, just so people know I'm not shooting from the hip. I want to give a little background. I was raised as a farm boy. I lived in land that was taken by New York City for the reservoir. I ended up in Vietnam and after that I worked for a pharmaceutical company and then I went to medical school. certainly, I've lost faith in all that. I think that people have had it too easy for too long in this country. they need to start practicing hardships. one thing, one thing they can do, is they can boycott all these wool companies. now, when it comes to Bud Light, it's more than that: it's Anheuser-Busch. people need to do the research and look at those things and cut them off. when they have a hundred million people that aren't following these companies and aren't buying their stuff, then they'll start waking up. the other thing I'd suggest is for people to get off social media. all it is is just a cluster. the better thing. one thing that they can do is be to contact the reps, contact bill sponsors, talk to people in their state about secession. anything they hear is all propaganda and lies. you've elucidated it very well. one other thing I want to say is I want to go back to one of your old ads, and that is that people are sitting on money. your money isn't going to be any good. you need to get out there and support companies like you. people need to if they want to look to the future and what they can do for their families and homes. they need to get your book, they need to get Flynn's book. they need to get a homesteading book. you can't just move from the city out and buy a little piece of country and think you're going to make it on a farm. believe me, I know from the farm days. we had a dairy farm and it was constant work. the other thing is that words mean a lot. they really matter. this isn't corruption that we're seeing. it's criminality. these people are criminals. all these people we're dealing with are insane. they don't think of collateral damage. they have their sights set on one thing: the whole thing's going to implode. they're going to lose in the end because truth and rationality come through sooner or later. people have to face reality. so reality wins by default. so people can keep their heads about them. look at things, look at the truth, search for the truth. don't believe anything you're seeing and hearing, because it's all propaganda and lies. that's obvious by listening to Biden. search for the truth, search for reality and go that route, because you're going to end up winning in the end. and that's basically what I wanted to say. I couldn't say it any better than you just said it, Rick. their system's coming down. their old bubble is collapsing. it poses a savior, as the old bubble goes down, to bring in a scam a hundred times worse, and we can't let them do it. thank you so much for the call. we're going to have another call in a moment, but first, please remember I didn't even plug last hour. we've got the great Alex Jones for President t-shirt. that's a very thought provoking shirt, great looking shirt, high quality fabric. and we also have the Trump Mugshot shirt- political prisoner- and it's a fundraiser shirt. they're both high quality shirts. infowarsstorecom or triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine. get the two limited edition shirts now at infowarsstorecom and I thank you all for your support. we cannot fund the operation without you. thank you so much, infowarsstorecom. ok, let's go back to the calls. Steve and Georgia, you're on the air. go ahead, yes, sir Alex. God bless you, brother, keep up the good work. I just want to make a point about Trump. when he said the first time he was going to get in there and drain the swamp after it was all said and done, I heard him making speeches after the term was over. he said he didn't know who the bad people were when he got in there the first time, and now that he knows who they are, if he gets back in there, he's going to get them. they're going to prison now. should we give him a second chance or not? that's what I want to make a point about. I think we should. by the way, I love your voice. I have a great uncle who died a few years ago, who talked just like you. he sounded 100% like him. you know who? he sounded like Festus from Gunsmoke. has anybody ever told you you sound like Festus? no, no, but I. I went to a rodeo one time. I was born and raised in Alabama. same town, Jim Nabors was born and my mother went to high school with him. so I'm raised in Alabama. I got this real southern voice and everybody in when they hear it the first time- never heard a real southerner talk- they're like: where are you from? a lot of folks talk like you and he's Texas brother, we love you. yeah. and then Biden- that one time I heard Biden say if we had a revolution, if we were to rise up against the federal government, he just kind of laughed and said: do you know what kind of war that would be, with them going up against me and my jets and all the weapons that we have and I'm going 331 million people against our military? I don't know what kind of battle that would be. oh sir, I want to totally agree. if there is a real guerrilla war and the globalists start it, the people know who the enemy is. they'll be wiped out. it's like Swallowswell said: we'll use nuclear weapons. nuclear weapons destroy whole cities, including their people. with your guns shooting on F-16s, you take out. I'm not saying do this, you take them out. when they're on the ground, you take out the pilots on the ground, you take them out of their house. these people know nothing about warfare that say they're going to start a war with the American people and win. they're fools. yeah, they don't know what they're doing when they get in the fight with the southern people anyway, because we're going to shoot first and ask questions later. and I'm prepared. I've got plenty of ammo. I understand, we know how to skin a bucket, run a trot line and do a lot of other stuff. alright, appreciate your call, brother. really appreciate your call. alright, more phone calls are straight ahead. stay with us. Alex Jones was wrong. Alex has been right on toward over a decade. I don't care how you slice it, dice it, flip it up or rub it down. Alex Jones was right. think about how frustrated we are. if you've been awake for a year or two, imagine being like an Alex Jones, or those guys who've been awake for like decades. Alex Jones called this years ago, years ago. Alex Jones never bought the Russia hoax, not for a second. you are one of the great thinkers of this. you're a martyr to the first amendment. the government fears Alex Jones. that's why the globalists hate me is because I'm exposing their corporate worldwide tyranny. Humanity is in a fight for its very life and Infowars for decades has been at the very forefront of the fight for a pro-human future. we can't stay on air without your help and I want to thank you all for your past support. and I want to encourage those of you that have never bought products at Infowarsstorecom to go there and experience how amazing these products really are: ultimate bone broth, finally sold out for over two years, back in stock. real red pill plus simply amazing nitric boosts- what it does for your heart, cardiovascular critical. all these products like ultimate krill oil, ultimate fish oil, supermell vitality, and in stock, ready to ship to you right now at Infowarsstorecom. and the final 1200 signed copies of my book- the great reset in the world for the world- and I'm not going to sign any more after that- are exclusively available at Infowarsstorecom as well. in the last month I got a little busy so I didn't sign the books. we didn't have them for sale, but now I sign the last books and get them right now. I intend to take the Infowars armored truck out, or the Infowars tank as it's so lovingly called. you came through yesterday and shopped at Infowarsstorecom, so I'm going to be able to take the truck out. Infowars tomorrow's news. today is their big move. so yeah, you say: why doesn't Biden address the disasters in the United States? he doesn't care, that's not his job. he's not the president of the United States, he's a puppet operating for the globalists. appetites of the autocrat cannot be appeased. they must be opposed. autocrats only understand one word: no, no, no, exactly. we say no to your vaccines. we say no to you shutting down our businesses. we say no to you taking our firearms. we say no to you censoring our free speech. we say no to you selling us out to the World Health Organization. we say no to you getting us into World War 3. you're right. we stand against autocrats like you, Joe Biden, and we say no, and we say no to your war leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones, live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide. it's Alex Jones. and this short war Swallowswell talks about. and it'd be a short war, my friend. the government has nukes, too many of them, but they're legit. I'm sure if we talked we could find common ground to protect our families and communities. and Biden said: you know they've got F-18s or whatever. the real war, before it becomes physical, which we want to stop, is knowing who the globalists are and that they stage attacks and that they want a physical war because they're losing. the real war is not having the physical war, winning it peacefully, but if it does go to that, they release a new virus. you know, they already did it, they've done it again. they're the ones that are behind it and it's not the military or the police. they may get in the way of us having to protect ourselves. they're keeping attackers with bioweapons. you know we're defending ourselves, but you need to. it's like in a war in the woods: you want to not shoot the trees. that's the police and the military little demons you're going after, and so this is a high value target situation if it goes to physical war, which I'm not calling for. so you see the high rise apartment upbringing- and I'm not bashing folks that grew up like that. but they don't really know how the world works, haven't studied the military, haven't studied history. they think, oh, we've got nuclear weapons, we've got aircraft carriers. that's going to defeat a city. the Russians have dumped now over 600,000 troops conservatively into Ukraine. they've lost at least 200,000 and that's because the Ukrainians- a large portion of them, are not giving up and they've got old beefs with the Russians, even though they're basically the same people. the Russians will fight. the Ukrainians will fight basically pretty close to the same group. it's a Slavic civil war. so it doesn't matter how many tanks and helicopters and troops the Russians have, the Ukrainians wait in their foxholes or wait in their dugouts with their rocket launchers and machine guns and wait until they see the Russians and fire for the whites their eyes, like Colonel Jackson said in 1814. we took a little trip along with Colonel Jackson to the mighty Mississippi, took a little bacon, took a little beans. we fought the bloody British at the town of New Orleans. let's get that song coming in the next segment. come back to calls in a minute. so I don't want that war. but if the American people know who the enemy is- the leftists, the UN people, the bureaucrats, the people that are given the orders- it'll be like a moose hunt. for those that don't know they only give out a few tags for moose. there's not many of them. you've got to wait years to get a tag and then you've got to go out and hope you find a moose and then when you find them they're a big old target. they ain't hard to hit. so we don't want to go to that. but they want to have a war where we're white against black or all gay against straight, all this stuff. so when they start the civil war to bring us down, we all kill each other. we don't want to have a civil war, we don't want to kill anybody. but if the globalists know the war is going to be on them, they're not going to start this war. and that's why it's important to identify they're the ones releasing the viruses. identify they're the ones shipping the fentanyl. identify they're the ones destroying the currency and cutting off the energy. that they're the enemy, so that if they start their physical war, then people know who actually runs. things like: if you want to get rid of a fire ant bed, you can put a biological chemical on it, a biological treatment that sterilizes the queen and then the whole ant hive dies. so if it goes to that, I don't want to go kill all the worker ants and the warrior ants, I want to get the queen, and I don't mean physically. you can sterilize the queen by exposing their agenda in the new world order and then there's nothing they can do because the dog won't hunt, and that's the perfect analogy. Texas A&M- remember if you lived in Texas, especially in the 80s, and stuff. fire ants were in the trees, the ground, all over your house. they were everywhere. I lived outside Dallas. you'd go outside and there'd be black mounds on every field, fire ants everywhere. Texas A&M came up with a way to sterilize the queens. they're 90% mitigated, which is good because they kill most of the birds and other animals. so I'd rather they're sterilizing us. they don't want a frontal attack. I want to sterilize their ideas, I want to castrate their ideas, and so I keep going back to that. that's where we're really going to win this fight. that's why they're all about censorship, because they know, we know how to stop them, not violently. but if it does go to a physical war, they won't be able to get leadership, whoever their local kingpins are running it. if those people take a little dirt nap, get little angel wings pinned on their back. but we don't want to go there. but we also need to know if they release another bioweapon. they're trying to round us up and put us all in FEMA camps. you know I'm not going to sit here and lie to you. I'm not going to go out and do anything. my job I'll be. they'll kill my ass. I don't say they'll kill me if I go fight them. I mean they really dropped the hammer. there's a lot of folks they're going to take out. you'll know that the hammer's getting dropped because a lot of us will get taken out right before they do it. but they'll kill Senator Paul, they'll kill Trump, they'll kill me, they'll kill whoever they know is not going to go along. I really don't want that to happen, and so I'm working towards stopping it. but I know this long after I'm a skeleton in the ground and not too long after our enemies will be defeated. so that's where we're at. we've got to win. the children are counting on us. thanks for holding her on the air. hello, Mr Jones. great to talk to you. I'm going to be ordering an Electra Pure in about a half hour. I wanted to talk to you about your friend and major talent, Richard Belzer, who died a few weeks ago. you had mentioned you were going to maybe get back to talking about him, and I have an amusing story of an experience with him that I think you'll enjoy. yeah, Richard Belzer was a great guy, really smart. tell me the story, okay. so I own a company that rents music gear out of Las Vegas. you know, drums, guitar amps, keyboards- known as backline- that's what that type of gear is- and Belzer, as part of his comedy act, had a little band, a little jazz band he would bring. so I got sent down to San Diego with a big company to do a corporate event and Belzer was the talent. I was there supporting his band, and the corporation that was hosting the event was the Association of Pharmaceutical Retailers and Belzer completely shredded these guys. you know he was a real, true classic liberal and a comedian, kind of in the vein of a George Carlin. so he gets up there and they of course made the mistake of hiring Belzer for their little pharmaceutical meeting. he gets up and the first thing he says is: hey, thanks for having me pharmaceutical retailers, anyone here from Bayer, Bayer, Aspern, anyone? Of course the people from Bayer wave from their little table and he says, hey, so you guys, you guys invented heroin to help people get off of morphine. way to go, guys. and of course, ooh, the hush goes over the crowd in their seats. he goes over to somebody from CVS or Walgreens. he's like you know, he's walking around with a spotlight and a wireless mic saying, hey, what's your name, sir, you look important. and the guy goes, John. he's like: what do you do for a living there, John, at Walgreens? He's like: well, I'm in charge of distribution, so you get to work every day. what's your day? look like: You get there, you get a cup of coffee right 9 o'clock. what do you got to do? and I was like: well, I get on the phone and I call the distributors and make sure that everybody's getting the product, and then I shoot off a few emails. so he's like: okay, so what's that? take you about 15, 20 minutes to do that. He's like: oh, yeah, oh great, okay, so what's the rest of the day? look like: And of course, this guy is squirming. and then he goes to a guy next to him and what about you? What's your name? He's like: um, Bill, well, what do you do, Bill? He's like: well, I'm John's assistant and I'm like: and he's like: oh so, John, so you don't even call the distributors. this guy does all the work. so what do you guys do all day? and he just went on and on, people started getting up out of their chairs and going for the exits and he was bad. hey, where do you think you're going? and he just was riding them like a government mule. it was just a psych Hold on, don't hang up, David. I got to hear the rest of the story. we'll continue in the next hour. I'm going to get to every one of these calls that are on hold. I want to hear the rest about Richard Belzer. yeah, he was a great guy, super smart. we'll be right back. bandvideo, madmaxworldtv, madmaxworldtv- and you slice it, dice it, flip it up or rub it down. Alex Jones was right. think about how frustrated we are. if you've been awake for a year or two, imagine being like an Alex Jones or those guys who've been awake for like decades. Alex Jones called this years ago, years ago. Alex Jones never bought the Russia hoax- not for a second. you are one of the great thinkers of this. you are a martyr to the first amendment. the government fears Alex Jones. that's why the globalists hate me. it's because I'm exposing their corporate, worldwide tyranny. you know I'm addicted to helping my fellow Americans. I'm addicted to spreading the truth and, again, you know I have Infowars to thank for that. looking back on the day, I was able to ask President Donald Trump two questions. I was so grateful because you know I truly was classically trained under Alex Jones and under the Infowars team. I really do credit that as to why I'm able to, you know, get these types of clips, because Alex's whole mentality was, you know, go where the story is, go where the mainstream media refuses to. so it's not that I'm addicted to the insanity, I'm just addicted to telling the truth and helping the American people. and I really do credit Alex for, you know, really instilling that within me early on in my career- The Great Reset and The War For The World at bookstores, Amazon or Infowarswarecom. but you will never be able to get another signed copy of the book after the signed copies we got run out and there's about a thousand left of them right now. so get your copy of The Great Reset and The War For The World, a signed copy, at Infowarswarecom- and there is a markup there- because this is a fundraiser to keep us on the air. so you won't just have this historic memento and this powerful book, you'll also know that you help keep Infowars on the air. I'm going to thank those of you that have gotten signed copies of the book or unsigned copies, but I want to encourage all of you who haven't yet to go to Infowarswarecom and get a signed copy and buy a couple of unsigned copies and donate them to the library or give them to the local school. this is an Infowar. I'm counting on you and thank you for your support. I talk a lot about the great successes Infowars has had. I don't think anybody can deny it, and it is because of listeners and viewers supporting us. we talk about the crew at Infowars- people behind the scenes, the researchers, the writers. they really have been the MVPs in this fight and when you look at Harrison Smith and Owen Schroyer and the hard work they engage in every day- 5,, 6,, 7 days a week- it's really just incredible. so for myself and the whole Infowars crew, I thank you for your past support and I want to encourage you now to realize that Infowars cannot stay on air if you do not support us. I know you spread the word, I know you pray for us and that's wonderful. keep doing it, but most viewers and listeners never go to infowarsstorecom and you never buy great products that enrich and empower your life while, at the same time, keep us on air. I know that less than 1% of our listeners actually go buy products at infowarsstorecom. if just 1% more of you took action and went to infowarsstorecom, our funding problems will be over. please take action now. please take action now. we fired once more and they began to run it on down to Mississippi, to the Gulf of Mexico- to all the idiot leftists. we looked down a river that think the US military could dominate and control the American people. but we didn't want to be. look what happened in Vietnam. we put millions of troops in there over that 10 year war, about 7 million troops, and the Vietnamese wouldn't give up so they couldn't be beaten. well, you try that with the American people. you're going to fail. you're going to go there because the feds would just blow up a bunch of buildings and say we did it to set the paradigm that the general public think that the rebels did it and we'd be off the races. you have to expose their system first. David, in Las Vegas. I'm going to rampage quicker through the calls, but you wanted to finish up with your Richard Belzer story. oh, just that. he was a terrific guy and really that's a classic liberal and the power of comedy- it's what we've got as our gift to get to break through all the nonsense. I agree, and I need to do it more. we need more classical liberals, not all these, what you call them today, fascists. yeah, and you know. I just wanted to also speak to Harrison Smith at just what a unique talent that that man has to keep things somehow light hearted while really hammering home really important points, and he's just terrific. and also Owen and yourself, of course, and just the previous caller who had spoken about Blair Wyatt. I think it really speaks to your integrity that you have a relationship with somebody like that and with Gays for Groomers. to see Owen Schroyer, who we all know how he feels about things. he's not shy and he has a reasonable, intelligent conversation with the woman from Gays Against Groomer. by the way, I want that lady. I want that lady on my show too. I appreciate your call. thank you, sir. we gotta move quicker. great call. let me mention this about real liberals. I don't agree with Robert F Kennedy Jr on some topics, but he's a man of integrity that fights fluoride and poison shots and fentanyl and everything else. he's a good man. his father was a good man. he was assassinated. Robert F Kennedy Jr has officially announced he's running for president. he didn't just file two days ago. he came out yesterday and said: I am running against Joe Biden. that's a good thing. he killed his daddy when he was winning the primaries. he's got a lot of guts and I really support him for the Democratic nomination. and if he backed off gun control, which he didn't really talk about, and became more pro-life, which he's starting to do, I would support him over most RINO Republicans. so I would actually vote Democrat. I mean, I would vote for Trump over him or DeSantis. but if he won the presidency, that's a classy guy who is a good man, he's talking about people and who is against the establishment. he's a good man and that's why the whole media is attacking him right now. and Tulsi Gabbards- I think he's the one with Tulsi Gabbards, but he's a Republican now. basically, Angel in Texas, you're on the air, go ahead. Hey, Alex, Welcome, Thank you, thank you, Great to speak to you again. I guess the first time I saw you was at the second stop to steal, where you were like: what do we want? Yeah, you reached over it and you gave me a high five. that was great. I'm like, wow. And again, we went to the Georgia Capitol and went in- we're peaceful, went to all those other capitals that were peaceful and we did not go to the US Capitol to be violent. No, we didn't. we were there for big things and everything. and what I wanted to tell that last caller, that was like: oh, we need to be violent, okay, Ray Epps, Yeah, the military is on our enemy. they're the ones being hit with poisoned shots. we need to win the info war Absolutely. and we're winning, and we're winning big, and we just don't see it because a lot of people are focused on the negative. what is always available is the right thing and the positive. we're winning the hearts and minds of the people and we're not flipping it against them. so if they actually do try to carry out the final plan or whatever they have in store for us, who's to say that their own people are going to flip on them? and it's going to end up like the beginning scenes of The Dark Knight, where the Joker pretty much kills everyone else. It's a total set up, the idiots going along with their fools. we need to reach out to those, not the evil ones. they know what they're doing, but the most of them are minions. thank you, Angel Buttons. in Maine, you're on the air. thanks for holding. Hi, Alex, thank you for taking my call. I love you and I want to let you know that your products are great. I really love the Brainforce. my man loves the CBD oil. but I'm calling because I wanted to speak about the Proud Boys. my man's a Proud Boy and it's a really great fraternity. they've had a really positive impact on our lives and I know that they're demonized as like a street gay. no, they never started fights. they defend when they attack men, women and children. they're a great organization set up by the feds. I mean there's gay men, black men, hispanic men, there's men from every walk of life in the Proud Boys and that's why it scared the system. yeah, and they support each other to help make each other the best men that they can be, especially with the nuclear family. especially the South Carolina boys have been aggressively protesting- the groomer clowns down there. I think Gavin McGinnis is a wonderful person. I think the Proud Boys are a wonderful group and they got set up on January 6th. a very small group of them and they're all innocent, absolutely, absolutely. and we haven't forgotten about our political prisoners, not just the Proud Boys, but all of them. I agree with you, and they're scared of a fraternity of men that are of every group, one group men standing up for just being good, decent people, and they're very inclusive. that's why they scared the left so much, why they've been persecuted absolutely and just like every group- I mean the majority of them- it's a drinking club. they tell burp and fart jokes. they get together one month and have a few beers- absolutely. thank you for the call. it's like when Marjorie Taylor Greene was going to go give a peaceful speech and they had physically attacked her Mayor said she was basically a criminal terrorist. I mean, they don't want us to have our speech. okay, folks, because we're beating them. Joe in Ohio, thanks for calling. Hey, how you doing Good. thanks for holding Hey. I just have two little dirty words for the left, and I don't hear this being talked about very often. but constitutional convention- that is the most peaceful way that we could raise our hands to the government and say: look, we need to change this stuff. they have layered so many laws over the constitution it's not even effective anymore. but what other peaceful means do we have? Well, constitutional conventions are very dangerous, but they're in the constitution for a reason. so the right states did it and had the right amendments. that would be something that could be good, but the enemy could hijack a con con and do a lot of dangerous stuff. but I hear you, it's in the constitution for a reason, because it's an option. what do you think it should be? Oh, too many. Abolish the federal reserve. Congress could do that anyways. Yep, start our own currency. term limits, cap on the budget, no foreign involvement in wars- there's just so many. you know we've come so far from what the founding fathers actually intended for us. I think it's something that should be discussed. the problem is we already have the constitution that the president can't launch wars without congress, but it's still happening. I think we should enforce the constitution. how do we do that? Wow, to do it non-violently. we see what they did with January 6th. if you're even carrying a cell phone, you're going to get tagged as some kind of instigator. this is why I was thinking the convention, if we could stop them in their tracks. I mean I almost wish we could impeach under a convention, because it would seem we need to do that and our representatives are not fairly representing us. everybody blames the democrats, but if you look at the republicans, they allow these things to go through. they're part of the problem. Now I hear you, Joe. we should have a whole debate, a whole show, with different guests from different angles, about a constitutional convention. of course, there's two ways to do it, and then we could do it: the states or two thirds of congress. thank you for the call. a little break, talk to Kristin and a few other callers, and then one of my favorite guest hosts, definitely the fieriest and most entertaining- Drew Hernandez, will take over in the fourth hour. please remember we're LISTR supported. great water filtration, great air filtration, lowest prices back in stock. affordable food, highest quality, lowest price- M4W4.com. DNA Force Plus- incredible for your cells, your body, your immune system. it's 40% off, despite the fact it's selling out. and also the real Red Pill Plus- same thing, selling out, 40% off. we're almost out of Diet Force, a good, natural, healthy diet pill way to lose weight. when it's sold out, it won't be back in for five months or so because it takes time to get the things that are in it. all of it's available at M4W4.com or triple A, 253-3139. and don't forget we have the Alex Jones for President shirt- great conversation piece- navy blue with red, white and blue. Alex Jones for President at 2024 on the front, M4W4.com on the back and the Trump mugshot political prisoner t-shirt- both limited editions. order them now at M4W4.com. and they are a fundraiser shirt. these shirts cost us like $13 a piece. the fabric is so high quality. M4W4.com, our number four. with your calls, you're Hernando straight ahead. If Alex Jones runs for President in the Republican Party, he has a chance of winning, and when the shirts are gone, they're gone. we're doing one run of Alex Jones for President- 2024 shirts- and we'll have a historic memento: be able to spread the word, meet a lot of people and you'll be able to keep us on the air. no way, that's a bridge too far. no, it can't be. and I said on national television that he was gonna win at Infowarsstorecom. I intend to take the Infowars armored truck out, or the Infowars tank as it's so lovingly called. you came through yesterday and shopped at Infowarsstorecom, so I'm gonna be able to take the truck out. so if you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance. you know, I have a rule when folks call in from foreign countries. I tried to go to them earlier, but I have a bad habit of just looking at how long they've been on hold and going to the next caller in the order they're received, but Chris has been holding over an hour from England. I appreciate Chris holding you. wanna talk about the people versus the new world order? go ahead and thanks for holding. Hi, Alex, it's Chris in Bolton in England. welcome, and I have information about helping take down the new world order. tell me, all governance in our country is based on governance by consent. well, there was a guy in Britain, in England, in 2013, proved in case law that they don't actually have our consent. see, a statute is a legislative rule given force of law by the consent of the governed. without the consent of the governed, that rule does not apply. and he won a tribunal and they got- and he won on those terms, on those, that fact and what was that case? the carpet out of all of it. what was that case? his name is Baron David Ward and he wrote something called the Baron David Ward affidavit when he won the case. he then, two years later- it took him two years to write this affidavit because if you get the facts in an affidavit wrong, you go to prison for a very long time- he then sent that affidavit off to 657 members of parliament with the invite to rebut. none of them did no rebuttal 657 times. half of parliament are lawyers and the other half have had that. well, there's no doubt these governments don't have the consent of the governed and have hijacked things. so where are you going with this? well, this is actually case law. it's court stamped and signed. therefore, they've agreed to it their own system. so it's a weapon that you can use against them by sending off this case law to Baron David to destroy any and all statutes, because a statute is a legislative rule. even a year ago, the supreme court ruled that these agencies, like the EPA, shutting down coal power plants, don't have law. it's the same thing. so what's the name of the case? again, the Baron David Ward affidavit. the Baron David Ward affidavit. I'll check into it, thank you. ok, let's go to John in Chicago. you're on the air. hey, Alex, how are you doing? good, brother, alright. so one thing I've been thinking about a long time- and I've been listening to you since 9-11- is they're linguistic geniuses. they trick us, even trick you and I. we call it the great reset. it's not a great reset, it's a great calling, and I think if we start calling it, that maybe more people can wake up to see what it is that they're after to do. what are your thoughts, my friend? it's the great collapse, the great depopulation, the great calling, call it that. I've actually called that a lot many years ago. that's what Dr Reema Lebo calls it. that's where I learned it, my friend, listening to you. hey, I said that first. you're right, that's the term to use- is this is the great calling. right now. it's the great calling. it's just started, slowly, but it's the great calling. it's upon us. they're setting the precedent to release weapons, release shots that kill us and just normalize it. now Fauci says a new bio-weapon's coming next year. yeah, they've already started killing us. the great calling is here. we're living it and it's all a test to see what we'll put up with. yeah, and unfortunately, we just keep taking it. well, I agree, I wish people would have woken up more of it. it's woken a lot of people up though. oh, tons of people. the people all around me. people are walking up to me at work and talking to me. you know they're like: how'd you know all that stuff? and they tell them: listen to Alex. and so we got to call Microsoft, we got to call Bill Gates, we got to call Congress. we got to let them all know. we know you did it. do it again. you know we're going to bring you. they're already talking about criminal charges in Congress against Fauci. so, as negative as it is, a lot of positive things. great call. thank you, Sean. now, look, I'm going to take calls again tomorrow, on Friday. but don't but the folks there, it's the phones- remind me tomorrow they'll give us their name and number: Gold, Harold and Josh. Josh, we took like 20 calls. I don't have time to get to you because I don't want to cut into Drew Hernandez, those two syndicated shows today. it's gracious to come once a week and do an hour here with us. so Drew Hernandez is loaded for bear. I'm going to go eat my lunch, take care of paperwork, work on a bunch of stuff while I listen to Drew Hernandez in the next hour and then in one hour, Owen Schroyer with the War Room, badmaxworldtv and fullwarscom. right now I'm not talking to the viewers and listeners that have gone to mfullwarscom and gotten the great products that enrich your life, that empower your immune system and your body and keep us on air. I am, humbly, hand in hand, talking to the viewers and listeners that have tuned in many of you for years and never gone to mfullwarscom. we know the vast, vast, vast, vast majority of you never actually go to mfullwarscom and never go to mfullwarscom, never actually go to mfullwarscom and never experience these great products and never find the operation. sure you share a link, you share an article, you tell folks about the show. that's great and I thank you. but we need funds to operate. plus, we've got really great products that do amazing things for people, like our CBD oil and our fizzy magnesium and our sleep aid and our nitrous oxide and our real red pill. plus. all of these are really great products. they keep us on air. plus, you're missing out on these products. so get off the bench, get in the game mfullwarsstorecom right now and get these great mfullwars products at mfullwarsstorecom only on infowarscom bandvideo. hey, I'm just going to give a disclaimer right now. all CUCservatives and CUCNN lovers and anyone that just cannot hear a difference of an opinion or something that's a little too in your face or a little too aggressive politically or ideologically, listen, just go to your safe space right now. I'm just going to be completely honest with you right now. I'm not going to sit here and try and baby you and coddle you and make sure you feel okay and your feelings aren't hurt and you're mentally stable and your mental illness isn't going off the charts. no, no, no, no. there's no time for that, that type of mentality and behaviour, with all the cuckery going on and the political correctness and people bending the knee to the woke mob and the totalitarian New World Order regimes on both sides in the uni-party. do not be deceived. the two party system is absolutely against you and your family. you can identify very quickly who's truly: America first, pro-humanity, pro-Christ, pro-God, that believes in the traditional values that got humanity to this point here in the future, in 2023, which, by the way, when you take a look at the radical New World Order agenda, whether it's coming from the left, whether it's coming from the right, it is all anti-Christ, demonic, satanic in origin and it's always an attack on God himself and those that are made in the image of God, which is us humanity. and when you speak about the transgender movement, let me just make a pretty obvious point to the viewers right now is that trans people just don't exist. you know, this is my view, because you know if trans people have gender dysphoria and it's a mental illness, let me just put it out there. it's just a figment in their imagination. it's an alternate reality that these people find themselves living in and, at the end of the day, they're just homosexuals or lesbians, which is against God as well. but you take a look at these woke tards like Dylan Mulvaney. alright, you got. listen. the New World Order compartmentalizes. there's ranks, there's systems. you take a look at how the military is set up. it's the same way with the New World Order. you got Klaus Schwab and Bill Gates at the top. you got these people that are the big. you know the Rockefellers. you got these individuals that have been making moves, the Bilderbergs, these people that Alex Jones has been exposing for decades. now. the big players, the George Soroses of the world with billion dollar budgets to place in other little agents of Satan, crooked DAs, crooked politicians that we're seeing fully functional and operational right now, especially in New York. a George Soros- excuse me, a George Soros- backed crooked DA that is going after President Donald J Trump right now with an indictment, an arraignment, an arrest made for the entire world to see, which, by the way, in my opinion, only made President Trump look more powerful and stronger. I don't know about you guys. but when I saw that arraignment, I see Trump walking to the courthouse. it just it looks like New York, just straight gangster stuff. you know what I mean? To my the optics, to me, I'm like that's a political martyr right there. man, that's pretty gangster. I know Trump's got his problems- Operation Warp Speed- and if you're a viewer of Infowars you know exactly what those problems are. and we want to see Trump flip on the death poison. we want to see him denounce it continually and never fall into something like that, ever again. but to his credit, the deep state, the shadow government, the satanic agents of Lucifer, are continuing to go after him, his family. these people have destroyed his family, destroyed his entire legacy. history will be rewritten by these people that President Donald J Trump was Adolf Hitler 2.0 and everyone that wore a mega hat was like the next SS. we all know that, because that's why they say that continually. that's what Adolf Hitler did, very strategically and effectively. you tell a lie big enough that people will believe it and you continue to tell it continually and consistently and the masses will just accept it as truth. That is what they're effectively doing with President Trump, his legacy. I mean you really think about Trump. a beloved, iconic- not political- figure, a cultural figure, right With everything that he's done with real estate in New York. an icon for decades. everybody loved Trump, black people and rappers always referencing him when they're talking about making big money. he's literally a metaphor in black culture, synonymous with making millions of dollars. come on, dude, how do you go from such a beloved, iconic figure- the apprentice making all of these mainstream waves in the culture goes from that- to someone whose legacy being tarnished and destroyed for all of eternity? now why? The reason why I make that point is because that is how the New World Order functions. that is how propaganda functions. they go after your entire character. this is how the devil functions. by the way they go after and they slander your entire character. they go after your family. they strike fear into your family so that generations after you will fear and never, ever, even have a thought of rising, like those past before you did rise up against them. this is about people that are identifying, people waking up to the reality that A the New World Order and those in the shadow government exist 100%, and you're seeing it on both sides. ok, we don't have to sit here and say that over and over again. it's not that hard to prove. it's not at all, and people like Alex Jones have been absolutely vindicated, and anyone else that spoke like this in the past 10 years. things have been expedited, things have been into overdrive. we are, we are in hyperspace right now. ok, because people are just going straight into the future and they're seeing everything just literally illuminated. their eyes are being opened and people are getting red pilled and Christ pilled, and the truth is waking people up to the reality that these things exist and the origin of it all is Satan himself. now, the reason why I say this and I bring up President Trump is because this could be any one of us. look what they did to the J6 prisoners. look what they tried calling anyone that's mega, a mega republican, a domestic terrorist. everything is white supremacist, even if you're black, even if you're brown like me. it doesn't matter if your ideas are pro-America, if you believe in the United States Constitution, you believe in American sovereignty, you believe in the Pledge of Allegiance, you love the national anthem. whether you're white, whether you're black, whether you're brown, whether you're green, whatever, it's always the same psychological operation of cancel culture to shut down their political enemies. that's white supremacy, that's white nationalism, that's Nazism, that's fascist. that is the white hegemonic power invading your mind to get you to believe that that's somehow normal, because anything that's America is white supremacy, when in reality, we have millions of people every single year attempting to come to this country illegally, which I despise totally, because we've lost our border. I believe in national sovereignty as a country, because that's how God instituted things, but we also have people coming to this country legally as well. now, the point with that is, if the United States of America is such a white supremacist, evil white nationalist place where black people and brown people can't even go and walk down the streets of the grocery store without being called the N-word or Hispanic people being called the B-word or the W-word, and there's just there's racism everywhere you look and I can't get a job because the color of my skin. this is how these people act at the federal level. even at the presidency- the so-called presidency right now, with the New World Order puppets that are in there, including Joe Biden and Kamala Harris- these people peddle these lies at the federal mainstream level as well. now, if it's that bad, why are brown people and black people trying to get to this country, both illegally and legally, every single day. you want to know why? because this country is far beyond, greater than any country on the face of planet Earth. now it doesn't look like that right now, but the American dream, the light on the hill, that is exactly what the New World Order hates now. the psy-op is everything I just explained to you. how do you get an entire generation of American citizens to hate themselves, dismantle their own borders, invade their culture, invade their education, dismantle anything that is pro-America, that is pro-patriot to their own country? the commies and the globalists and the New World Order and the Satanists and Luciferians at the top. they infiltrate every single one of those channels to get the American people themselves to hate themselves and their own country and cause a mass destabilization. but you and I, the thought criminals and the info warriors, will not let it happen. we'll be right back at a different time of war. what we want to do in Davos is push the reset button. as soon as we start exposing the great reset, the sooner these globalists start going to prison. these fighters- they really have been the MVPs in this fight, and when you look at Harrison Smith and Owen Troyer and the hard work they engage in every day, 5,, 6,, 7 days a week. it's really just incredible. so, for myself and the whole info wars crew, I thank you for your past support and I want to encourage you now to realize that info wars cannot stay on air if you do not support us. I know you spread the word. I know you pray for us and that's wonderful. keep doing it. our listeners never go to infowarstorecom and you never buy great products that enrich and empower your life while at the same time, keep us on air. I know that less than 1% of our listeners actually go buy products at infowarstorecom. if just 1% more of you took action and went to infowarstorecom, our fighting problems will be over. please take action now. there is a war for the future happening right now. there is a war that will control my destiny, your destiny, our children's destiny, and that war is something that we can win and it takes dedication. it takes commitment. that's why I ask listeners respectfully to go to infowarstorecom and buy great products that will enrich and empower your life while keeping us on air at the very same time. infowarstorecom to get a signed or unsigned copy of my book The Great Reset and the War for the World: Ultimate Bone Broth Back in Stock. Nitric Boost, the amazing CBD oil we have- that's the highest quality you're going to find anywhere more than half off. it's all available at infowarstorecom- some of the very best products, and a lot of you have never shopped at info war store. you've been watching for years, you've been listening for years, but you've never taken the step to go to info war store. these are great products that really work and are amazing. plus, they keep us on air. so again, please take action. go to infowarstorecom today and I thank you. humanity is in a fight for its very life and info wars, for decades, has been at the very forefront of the fight for a pro human future. we can't stay on air without your help and I want to thank you all for your past support and I want to encourage those of you that have never bought products at infowarstorecom to go there and experience how amazing these products really are. Ultimate Bone Broth- finally sold out for over two years. back in stock. real red pill, plus simply amazing nitric boost- what it does for your heart, cardiovascular critical products like ultimate krill oil, ultimate fish oil, supermell vitality. they're all available and in stock, ready to ship to you right now at infowarstorecom and the final 1200 signed copies of my book- the great reset in the world for the world- and I'm not going to sign any more after that- are exclusively available at infowarstorecom as well. in the last month I got a little busy so I didn't sign the books. we didn't have them for sale, but now I sign the last books. you can get them right now, leading a frontal assault on the lies of the new world order. it's Alex Jones. Hey man, I need that Alex Jones for president t-shirt. I'm behind. I'm going to order one right after this show, when I'm done here. you know, I kind of want a custom one. I want an Alex Jones for president t-shirt with the old school cobra commander on it. you know what I'm saying. I would probably buy maybe 5 or 10 of those and just pass them out. it's such a great concept, such a great shirt. what do you guys think about that? shout out to everyone in the getter chat watching on rumble worldwide on radio. I just want to thank everyone for tuning in. that's such a great shirt, man, Alex Jones for president 2024. but I want a custom one. I demand a custom one with cobra commander on it right now, right now. anyways, that's besides the point. well, speaking of 2024 and the presidential election, like I was saying before we went to break, this could be any one of us guys. this could be any one of us. okay, just because you see guys like president Trump, you see guys like Alex Jones, Roger Stone, Steve Bannon, you name it right, these figures that the deep state puts on trial in front of the entire world, political martyrs with their political persecution. what did you guys see post J6? they went after the supporters and those that make those individuals that listen to them, that follow them, that have the same ideas, the same views. fast forward 2022. they rolled out the mega republicans, domestic terrorists. and even in 2021, they were rolling out the FBI saying: if you wave a don't tread me flag, that's domestic terrorism. you love the second amendment. that's domestic terrorism. that's a red flag. that's a sign that you are being radicalized by the right wing to want to run around and kill people. the point I was trying to make last segment is the new world order and these globalist entities, the commies, whatever you want to call them. they're all agents of Lucifer. they're masters of propaganda, linguistics- the way that they speak, the way that they manipulate the minds of people through the words that they say. I wouldn't even say the average IQ individual, the low IQ individuals, the woke-tard NPCs out there that just believe everything. you know that the homosexuals on CNN tell them every single day- you know what I mean- like oh yes, yes, Don Lemon. yes, I should hate white people, even though you're with a white guy. oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, Don Lemon, tell me how to live, tell me how to thank Don Lemon and Anderson Cooper. those type of stupid people. you know who I'm talking about, right? Those people are easy to deceive. those people are easy to manipulate. those people are easy. you know the useful idiots, right, But these people know how to jujitsu their way through words and sentences, propaganda through the optics you see through social media, not just the fake news media cartel on CNN, CuckNN, MSNBC and all these other outlets that they use, but TikTok, Instagram, big tech apparatuses- you name it- YouTube- that they're pumping all this garbage into the minds of children on one end. they know exactly that they're liars. they know that they're hypocrites. they know what they're saying doesn't correspond with reality, but that's not what they're trying to achieve. that's why they lie, that's why they propagate because they're trying to mask. it's a mirage of what the truth actually is and you get these people that believe it. they believe the lies about President Trump, they believe the lies about Alex Jones, they believe the lies about Roger Stone. they believe the lies about you and this could be any one of us. the point here, the point here- is what is mega right: American values, patriotism and, to Trump's credit, in the 2016 campaign, Roger Stone and all those guys that did a phenomenal job. they just simply branded American values. they simply branded American values and they branded the values that have been getting degraded by the deep state and the new world order for the past 30, 50 years. that's what amplified and put on a just rocket ship straight into space. what this movement really was and the reason why I say that is, this transcends the person of Donald Trump, because the values they predate, they transcend who Donald J Trump is. he predates- okay, he was just the catalyst that kicked this thing off. so, whether Trump is here or gone, these values remain. they're not going anywhere. that is what the new world order hates. it's about an individual coming out, speaking up, going against the establishment, going against the mainstream narrative, going against the current of the new world order that is falling down upon all of us, and it doesn't matter if you're a billionaire from New York, it doesn't matter if you're Alex Jones from Texas with a huge audience. they just see them as targets because they have the biggest voices right now. it could be you, it could be me. this will happen in the workplace. that's what cancel culture is. we've already seen these psyops run on the American people. where you're afraid to say anything in the culture, you get cancelled at universities immediately. they did it in Disney to Gino Carano. they've done it in American culture. they've done it in Hollywood. they've done it in the music industry. they've done it in education, in medicine. did you not live through 2020 and 2021? Where the heroes of 2020, the doctors and the nurses that saved people's lives in hospitals by putting their lives on the line- oh, when they didn't want to take the death poison. in 2021, they became the villains. they became slandered and destroyed. the point is, it doesn't matter if you are an individual, a teacher, a school bus driver, any one of us. the way that you get a target on your back is when you start getting vocal, you start making some noise and you start telling these people no, and the moment you do that, you start waking up other people that feel the same way. that's why they shadow ban anyone on YouTube. that's why they deplatform anyone on social media that turns out this way, because they want to stop the masses from mobilizing. so what's happening with President Trump? just like everything that happened with Alex Jones when he got deplatformed- which, in my opinion, I think President Trump should have paid a lot more close attention to which a lot of right wing conservatives didn't- and now they are, because they're all getting hit- Infowars and Alex Jones was the tip of the spear- deplatformed, censored, destroyed on YouTube. but they're still standing. we're all here, still standing by God's grace, because you could never shut down and defeat the truth, because if God be for us, who could be against us? that's why banvideo still exists today. the devil will launch attacks until we're all dead and gone and whoever comes after us will pick up the baton and continue on into the future until Christ returns and takes us home. these attacks are never going to stop, but, by God's grace and God's power, we stand here on our own two feet and we push back, we continue to expose and we continue to say no and we continue to enlighten and wake up the public with true enlightenment. that's Christ, his word and the light of God. that's what the darkness hates, but people need to understand. this is you. this is coming after you, this is coming after your family, because this is about values. these people hate what you believe in. they hate what you stand for. this goes beyond Donald Trump. this goes beyond Alex Jones, Drew Hernandez, your favorite commentator. that's actually real. this goes beyond any one of us: good versus evil, an attack on humanity, the new world order, empowered by Lucifer and the anti-Christ. going after you day by day, minute by minute. these people do not sleep. they do not stop. if you're not awake by now, you better be awake, because this stuff is absolutely real. we'll be right back, and when you look at Harrison Smith and Owen Schroyer and the hard work they engage in every day, 5,, 6,, 7 days a week, it's really just incredible. so for myself and the whole Infowars crew, I thank you for your past support and I want to encourage you now to realize that Infowars cannot stay on air if you do not support us. I know you spread the word, I know you pray for us and that's wonderful. keep doing it. but most viewers and listeners never go to Infowarsstorecom and you never buy great products that can enrich and empower your life while at the same time giving us on air. I know that less than 1% of our listeners actually go buy products at Infowarsstorecom. if just 1% more of you took action and went to Infowarsstorecom, our funding problems will be over. please take action now. there is a war for the future happening right now. there is a war that will control my destiny, your destiny, our children's destiny, and that war is something that we can win, but it takes dedication, it takes commitment. that's why I ask listeners to go to Infowarsstorecom and buy great products that will enrich and empower your life while keeping us on air at the very same time. Infowarsstorecom to get a signed or unsigned copy of my book, The Great Reset and War for the World: Ultimate Bone Broth Back and Stop Nitric Boost the amazing CBD oil we have. that's the highest quality you're going to find anywhere at more than half off. it's all available at Infowarsstorecom. these are some of the very best products and a lot of you have never shopped at Infowarsstore. you've been watching for years, you've been listening for years, but you've never taken the step to go to Infowarsstore. these are great products that really work and are amazing. plus, they keep us on air. so again, please take action. go to Infowarsstorecom today and I thank you. ladies and gentlemen, this book, The Great Reset and War for the World, is a historic book that documents the globalists in their own words, plan for our future. that is a hellish future. you will always- while they still allow books- I guess they're starting to ban them- be able to get an unsigned copy of The Great Reset and War for the World at bookstores, Amazon or Infowarsstorecom, but you will never be able to get another signed copy of the book after the signed copies we got run out and there's about a thousand left of them right now. so get your copy of The Great Reset and War for the World, a signed copy, at Infowarsstorecom- and there is a mark up there- because this is a fundraiser to keep us on the air. so you won't just have this historic memento and this powerful book, you'll also know that you help keep Infowars on the air. I'm going to thank those of you that have gotten signed copies of the book or unsigned copies, but I want to encourage all of you who haven't yet to go to Infowarsstorecom and get a signed copy, and buy a couple of unsigned copies and donate it to the library or give them to the local school. this is an Infowar. I'm counting on you and thank you for your support. they decided to not perp walking, not put them in handcuffs, not do a mugshot, because they knew that that would help Trump, didn't? they know this would backfire. we were waiting for the mugshot. we learned today they wouldn't have it, so we've made our own and it says political prisoner with an image of President Trump. the shirt is being printed now in Texas. it'll be shipping out to you in one week. political prisoner with Trump on the front there in a mugshot jail background. it's a fundraiser shirt. it says Infowarscom on the back of the shirt. we also have Alex Jones for President. no, I'm not running for President. it's a really nice navy blue, high quality shirt. red, white and blue. Alex Jones for President 2024. it's a fun, conversational piece and a limited edition shirt- great way to fund the operation. so get your Alex Jones for President and Trump mugshot shirts at Infowarsstorecom or by calling toll free triple A 253-3139 of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones by the CCP propaganda machine known as TikTok, millions of views targeting minors, little children, indoctrinating, confusing and poisoning their minds with degeneracy, immorality, depravity, perversion, showing little kids what they call progression, which is actually morality being degraded 100%. it's quite the opposite. but what I'll say is this- and I don't know if the crew, I'm pretty sure they can: if you guys can pull up a picture of Baphomet, Baphomet with little children around him, right, the depiction of Lucifer, half beast, half man, half woman, always with little kids sitting around looking up to Baphomet. this has been a depiction of Satan for centuries. and you want to talk about the so-called trans movement? I'll just use the term for now. I don't believe trans people exist at all. and there it is right there, always with little kids sitting at the side, looking up, half beast, half man, half female, and you can argue, maybe part angel as well, with the wings on the back, because Lucifer is a fallen angel as well. what is this really? I know it's easy to make fun of Dylan Mulvaney because he's mentally ill, mentally unstable, but I think the darker and more serious issue is the state of the culture, with the total depravity right now going on, with the so-called LGBTQ movement waving that damn flag around, hijacked the rainbow, which belongs to God, by the way. it just seems like these people steal everything. they steal the rainbow from God. they want to steal your children. they want to steal their genitals, chop them up, sell them for a profit, always with children. the epitome- listen, I'll say this: Dylan Mulvaney is the epitome of evil. alright, this is my opinion. Dylan Mulvaney is the epitome of evil, of Luciferianism, because Satan- and the Bible makes it very clear- Lucifer, he masquerades, he, he counterfeits, and he camouflages as an angel of light. he appears to be a friend, he appears to be neutral, he appears to not be a threat, he appears to be someone that's safe. that's what that means. an angel of light is someone that you come to for protection or you don't see as an enemy or any danger in. now, why do I say that? Because what this mentally ill pervert represents is an individual that is specifically masquerading as someone safe in the mainstream, that is specifically targeting children and with the use and lacing alcohol. aside of that, within that, now, Dylan Mulvaney, the representation of Lucifer and evil, in my opinion, is the face of Bud Light in alcohol and also Nike. he's sporting sports bras for women. we'll get to that as well. but let me make this point about alcohol. okay, what do pedophiles and groomers always do to children? what do they do? number one pedophiles and groomers. you look at FBI profiles. you look at everything. you listen to how they profile pedophiles and groomers. they always appear to be friendly, they appear to be safe, they appear to be a friend. you don't like your parents. your parents are mean to you, nice to you, little girl. you can tell me your problems. I'm a safe space for you. I'm someone you can come to for refuge, cause I'm not someone that's gonna hurt you. that's Dylan Mulvaney, all over TikTok. and then groomers and pedophiles and rapists and child molesters. they'll slowly introduce adult themes or adult practices slowly but surely into the mind of a child to get the child to believe that. well, this is a safe person already and if this person is safe, they're never gonna hurt or violate me. so if this person is offering me drugs, if this person wants to touch my private parts, or if this person wants to offer me alcohol, well, that's a cool adult. because my parents don't let me rebel, culture and society doesn't let me rebel, that's frowned upon. but this adult is letting me drink. this adult is offering me drugs. this adult is letting me party and get away with things that are forbidden. this adult is someone that is not only safe, but is someone that gives me license to just do whatever I want and their access to some adult things like alcohol and drugs. it's like the big bad wolf dressed as a grandma to lure the little pigs in to literally eat them alive. that is what Dylan Mulvaney is. and now that you have this mentally ill pervert, the face of Bud Light, alcohol and the parent companies, who is Dylan Mulvaney's target audience? Is it millennials? Is it Gen X? Is it boomers? Is it anyone over the age of 25?? Dylan Mulvaney's target audience are children, ladies and gentlemen. so why would Dylan Mulvaney need to be the face of Bud Light or some kind of alcohol parent company? How is that correct marketing? Because if you know anything about marketing- and if Alex is listening to me or anyone that has any knowledge of marketing, knows exactly what I'm talking about. one of the first questions that you ask yourself or whoever's trying to market you or an advertiser is: what is your brand? Who is your target audience? What is the age target audience, So you could correctly pinpoint who you want to sell your products to. That is marketing 101, especially in the age of YouTube and social media, and especially TikTok. so I would propose- this is my opinion and my suspicion- that this is how the New World Order functions- that these perverts, these sick, disgusting, depraved individuals that know who Dylan Mulvaney's target audience is, are children, little kids, even minors, that sit there and digest his content every single day, getting indoctrinated and perverted in their minds. these people know that their marketing and their targeting is going straight to minors to get this safe looking individual that's a friend, that's mentally ill just like you, that's lost your mind, that's totally depraved, degenerate and perverted as well. that your parents don't accept. the big bad wolf dressed as a grandma, come into the house. yes, Dylan Mulvaney will market to children alcohol. you might ask yourself. well, how deep is that? really, It's extremely deep, because Dylan Mulvaney represents a part of the culture right now that is attempting to normalize the mutilization of the genitals of kids and the grooming of children. that is who Dylan Mulvaney, in my opinion, represents. you tie in drugs, you tie in alcohol, you tie in little kids getting lured into these things thinking they're safe. This is culture, ladies and gentlemen, Drew, what are you talking about? What's the point here? This is how culture is made, with corporations that coincide with mainstream figures to brand and market their products to the next generation, to get them to live certain lifestyles, to spend their money and live it at the same time. these alcohol corporations, Bud Light, parent companies- know just exactly who Dylan Mulvaney's target audience is: it's little kids, and they're setting a culture of grooming between mentally unstable, grown adult perverts and little kids, building a bridge together through alcohol, and that is a cocktail of pedophilia and child molestation. ladies and gentlemen, Hollywood 101: New World Order: fully operational. we'll be right back. If Alex Jones runs for president in the republican party, he has a chance of winning. If you just tuned in, you may be noticing I'm wearing an Alex Jones for president 2024 shirt. I am not seriously planning to run for president. this is an idea the crew had have a triggering shirt, kind of next level. Alex Jones was right. there's Infowarscom in the back, Alex Jones for president 2024 on the front. it's a fundraiser shirt. it's made out of really nice fabric, it's high quality and it is an exclusive shirt to Infowarsstorecom. and when the shirts are gone, they're gone. we're doing one run of Alex Jones for president: 2024 shirts and we'll have a historic memento. be able to spread the word, meet a lot of like minded people and you'll be able to keep us on the air. no way, no way. that's a bridge too far, that's no, it can't be. and I said on national television that he was going to win at Infowarsstorecom- cannot be appeased. they must be opposed. autocrats only understand one word: no, no, no, exactly. and that's why we say no to your vaccines. we say no to you shutting down our businesses. we say no to you taking our firearms. we say no to you censoring our free speech. we say no to you selling us out to the World Health Organization. we say no to you getting us into World War 3, you're right. we stand against autocrats like you, Joe Biden, and we say no and we say no to your war. the most banned man in America, Alex Jones. I want you all to know something: Alex Jones was right. Alex is right about far more than is wrong. he has secured over a decade. I don't care how you slice it, dice it, flip it up or rub it down. Alex Jones was right. think about how frustrated we are if you've been awake for a year or two. imagine being like an Alex Jones or those guys who've been awake for like decades. Alex Jones called this years ago. years ago. Alex Jones never bought the Russia hoax- not for a second. you are one of the great thinkers of this. you are a martyr. the government fears Alex Jones. that's why the globalists hate me is because I'm exposing their corporate worldwide tyranny. Humanity is in a fight for its very life and Infowars, for decades, has been at the very forefront of the fight for a pro-human future. we can't stay on air without your help and I want to thank you all for your past support, and I want to encourage those of you that have never bought products at Infowarsstorecom to go there and experience how amazing these products really are: ultimate bone broth- finally sold out for over two years, back in stock. real red pill plus simply amazing nitric boosts what it does for your heart, cardiovascular critical. all these products, like ultimate krill oil, ultimate fish oil, supermell vitality. they're all available and in stock right now on Infowarsstorecom, and the final 1,200 signed copies of my book, The Great Reset in the World for the World- and I'm not going to sign any more after that- are exclusively available at Infowarsstorecom as well. in the last month I got a little busy so I didn't sign the books. we didn't have them for sale. but now I sign the last books. you can get them right now. these Skittle people are out of control, man, I'm just going to keep it 100 with you guys out of control. the Skittle people are running around with their trans erections- trans erections as well. I mean, that's true, man. these people are just hyper-sexualized. they love children. they want to chop their genitals up. they think grooming is totally nuts. they think they're going to have sex. they think they're going to have sex. they want to chop their genitals up. they think grooming is totally normal. the point where they murder three little Christian babies at a Christian school and three Christian adults because they believe the lies and propaganda that they're facing some kind of genocide, that they're going to be eradicated from humanity. you know why are the Skittle people running around performing trans erections, excuse me, trans insurrections? because society is totally cucked out and allowed these people to get to this point. it's like a bad kid dude. you spare the rod on the child, you destroy the child and the child ends up hating you when you let a society. okay, get out of control and you're afraid to tell them no, because you don't want to hurt their feelings, you don't want to cause them to hate you, and you want to be the cool dad, you want to be the cool mom. it actually has the opposite effect, because if there are no moral boundaries within a culture, then you get total moral anarchy, dude. you get homosexual anarchy. you get, you know, just absolute fornicating out in the open. you get Sodom and Gomorrah, ladies and gentlemen. you get Sodom and Gomorrah, especially with all the trans erections going on, insurrections going on. you know, it's state capitals. they're just storming the building and it's, you know, according to the mainstream media. it's not the worst thing since 9-11, it's not the worst thing since Pearl Harbor- only when the mega republicans do something like that. but it's because society has gotten to this point where they just allow it and you're not allowed to call it out, because if you do, you get cancelled and you're filled with hate. you're filled with hate, you're a hate filled person because you're telling the truth. no, no, I'm a Christian, alright, and the proverbs make it very clear: alright, open rebuke is better than concealed love. what that means is if you openly with love. speak the truth to someone living in error. that means more and is more valuable and honorable in God's eyes than concealing the truth about who they are and their lifestyle out of cowardice, fear, political correctness, even a some kind of virtue signaling morality, where I don't want to judge people so I'm not going to tell the truth to their face. that's not how God rolls and I'm thankful that's not how God rolls, because if that's how God rolled, I would never have told me the truth and I would have never been saved by the blood of Christ. God didn't try and pamper me and beat around the bush. no, God was straight up. this is who you are. you're living in total arrogance. you need to repent and come to my son, Jesus Christ, immediately because of what he's done on the cross. repent, repent or you know where you're going. it worked for me, man, and I'm thankful God didn't try. God is love. God communicates his love and his mercy and his grace, but at the same time, that does not mean that God beats around the bush and refrains from telling the truth to an individual in error. that is literally on a highway to hell, the broad way, about to fly off a cliff and plunge into eternal damnation. no, God is fully, fully willing to hurt your human feelings and pride. at the end of the day, that's what it is. getting your pride hurt, that's what humility is, ladies and gentlemen, people. getting their pride hurt, that's what the gospel does. it not only hurts your pride, it shatters and obliterates, destroys, sanitizes pride. why? because one cannot be born again unless they submit, which requires humility and pride being destroyed in the human heart. and that's the epitome of what movement today? the pride movement. you see how this all is interconnected and it's weaved together. it's all spiritual. we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against powers, principalities, powers, spiritual hosts of wickedness in the heavenly places, right, and they establish. they establish these human machines, these organizations, these entities. they camouflage with the culture, but I'll tell you right now, people like Dylan Mulvaney is in a total assault on God and those made in the image of God. you want to know why. we are made in God's image. God made man, He created Adam, made in His image biological male, and out of man came who, Eve, female. we are made and engineered for a specific reason by God: biological procreation. that can only succeed. biological male, biological female, because that has God. that is how God has instituted, engineered and established it from the beginning. from the beginning you call yourself a Christian. you go to the scriptures. what does God say? is the trans movement, the so called trans movement, compatible with God's word? I can't dictate this. this is not my opinion. I cannot rewrite how God has engineered the universe and how humanity is meant to function- which, by the way, in Romans, chapter 1, when you start to go against God's design, when you go out of the boundaries, when it's biological male on male sex or biological female on female sex, God gives that society over. that, accepts that to a depraved and reprobate mind. that means society loses its mind entirely. and look where we are today. connect the dots, guys. this is not my word, this is God's word. go read Romans, chapter 1. go read Genesis, chapter 1 through chapter 6, the origins, the way that God instituted things, and pay attention to the stories of Sodom and Gomorrah and the reason why God flooded planet earth. and it sounds pretty familiar to the days we are living in right now. what did Christ say? John is all of it discourse in Matthew, chapter 24, as the days of Noah. that's what it's going to be like in the last days before the second coming of Christ. that's what Jesus said, one of the identifying factors that you are living in the final scene. you're living in the final act of humanity. you and I are living this thing, man, we're in it. this isn't a Star Wars movie. this isn't an Indiana Jones movie. this isn't your favorite movie. where the final act is on and you're at the edge of your seat, you're watching what's going to happen. you are living the greatest story ever told, and God makes it very clear in his word. and what did Christ say? how would the culture be, how would the world be functioning in the final act of humanity, before the rapture and the second coming of Christ and the advent of the Antichrist as well, that the world would be as in the days of Noah. what were the days of Noah, ladies and gentlemen? homosexuals dominating to the point of showing up. when angels show up to meet with a human, they come knocking on the door. let us in. let us break down this door so we can know that guy in there. break down the door. we want that guy right now. break down these doors. we're going to push our way into you. sound familiar, sound kind of like the trans-erections, the trans-erections. alright, guys, I'm just quoting God's word and I'm matching it to the reality that I live in right now, because God's word is reality. okay, God's word is reality because God has created the universe. he's created the reality we live in right now. he's created the multiple, multiple dimensions that we are all experiencing here on planet earth and beyond. the question is: are we going to side with God? this is the real question, ladies and gentlemen. the real question is: you got to make, you got to pick a side, because Christ said: you're either for me or you're against me. you're neither hot nor you're cold, you're lukewarm, so I spit you out of my mouth. you're either in line with Christ doesn't mean you're perfect, but you do agree. Christ said. he was questioned. you know, how does one know that they love me? how do I know that someone truly loves me? in the old testament, Christ said: the one who truly loves me is the one who listens to my word and obeys it. that simple. you cannot love someone if there's no trust or obedience, because if you do not have any of those things, you don't love them. that's a relationship of fear and we are to fear the Lord, but not in that way, but to fear him and revere him as our ultimate protector. therefore, we trust everything he says and we submit to it, because he knows best, better than we can ever know for ourselves, especially for humanity that's fallen. we'll be right back. I intend to take the Infowars armored truck out, or the Infowars tank as it's so lovingly called. you came through yesterday and shopped at Infowarsstorecom, so I'm going to be able to take the truck out. so I'm going to be able to take the truck out. so I'm going to be able to take the truck out. so I'm going to be able to take the truck out. so I'm going to be able to take the truck out. because Alex's whole mentality was: go where the story is, go where the mainstream media refuses to. so it's not that I'm addicted through the insanity, I'm just addicted to telling the truth and helping the American people and I really do credit Alex for really instilling that within me early on in my career. you