I was going to do kind of like a deep tease on this. I don't know what is more sick: The Body Snatchers that want to put a muzzle on your face and a needle in your arm because of their own worldview, So because of all of their own beliefs and their worldview, they now want to dominate you. But that is not even the most disgusting, disturbing thing I have on my desk today, And so I mean I was going to do a big deep tease about this, but I'll just show you this now. So I'm not sure what's more disgusting: The Body Snatchers that want to control you and don't believe in freedom or this? I apologize, but nobody else is going to report this, but this is the sick world we live in. A knitted penis for extremely small girls to wear in their pants if their parents believe them to be transgender. It is intended for girls so young. they demonstrate the product in a diaper And it's literally a business. Bitty bug soft packer and they knit male genitals for you to put in your daughter's pants. So are we living in hell or is this comedy for angels? Are we living in hell or is this comedy for angels? Because I mean, this is like redonkulous. We should be laughing at how outrageous this is. This should be like fringe shock value comedy. No, they're actually making knit penises for your daughter's diaper. The federal government commissioned secret radiation experiments on thousands of non-consenting patients. Hundreds of hospitals in the US injected healthy men, women and children with uranium and plutonium at dosage levels ranging from non-therapeutic to lethal killing many of the test subjects. Endgame blueprint for global enslavement is one of the most important films ever made. Fourteen years ago, we tracked and documented the Bilderberg Group's activities and their plan for a great reset, using the threat of a fake virus. the doctors, nurses, scientists do not trust a so-called vaccine. You shouldn't either. You should warn everyone you know about the truth. You're listening to the Alex Jones show. Seriously, what has this world become when you have bitty bug soft pecker-packers. I mean, let me just read here: The bitty bug soft pecker-packer is a custom prosthetic packer in sizes appropriate for children, made from soft, durable yarn and polyester, filling a knitted penis for extremely small girls to wear in their pants if their parents believe them to be transgender, And they demonstrate the product in a diaper because it's for toddlers. In unrelated news, South Carolina becomes the fourth state to approve of firing squats. So seriously though, are we living in hell? or is this comedy for angels? Because you hear this and it's just surface-level face value: nauseating, disgusting, disturbing on so many different levels. And, of course, you know this is just the perverts. Again, we just wanted to put their hand down your daughter's pants. These are just perverts who want to put their hands in your toddler's diaper. These sick freaks. Body snatchers- Oh yeah, Anybody involved with knit penises for baby girls. Anybody going into a diaper to put a penis into a baby girl? Yeah, I have a feeling you're a body snatcher. I bet you wear two masks too. You're going to take your vaccine too. I bet you get mad when you see someone without a mask. Because I could sit back and laugh at this. I could joke. I mean seriously, like, oh, hey, we can do an SNL skit. You know, you show up at the Biddy Bug Softpecker store. You're like, oh yeah, how can I help you? Hi, I've got a six-month-old daughter and I want her to have a penis. It's like, well, that's good for you, sir, Very progressive. I see you're not wearing a mask. Are you vaccinated? Of course Johnson and Johnson Feels great. Well, not today, Maybe tomorrow, though. Yeah, you know, I really like that size right there. Yeah, Oh, that's wonderful. We have that one in blue or black or white. I noticed that your daughter's white. Do you want to be transracial and have a black knit penis for your daughter, Or do you want to go with the normal flesh tone for a Caucasian. Well, I kind of want my daughter to have a really big lap hog, So whatever the biggest size you got is. I mean seriously like, is this comedy for angels? And you can laugh at this stuff, but no, These people are actually thinking about putting a knit penis in your daughter's diaper. Who's going to be the first celebrity to put a bulge in their infant's diaper for a political statement? It sounds something right up Chrissy Teigen's alley, doesn't it? That sounds right up Chrissy Teigen's alley. I mean, this woman has some serious problems there. We have the US military admitting UFOs exist and they have hundreds of hours of footage. and now they're showing you the footage and it's like not even news, It's not even a blip on the radar. Myself included, I don't even have any of that news on my desk. But I'm just sitting here thinking what's next? How does it get crazier? I mean, who would have predicted knit penises for your baby, Right? I mean drag queen story time. You're like: oh, that's as far as it goes. You know grown men with boners bouncing up infants on their blap and saying, no, we're reading to them. Yeah, oh yeah, oh sure You could do that without your, you know, dingling out. But where does it go from here? Now, at drag queen story time, they'll take your little daughter up and they'll say: or? they'll take your little daughter up and they'll say: oh, your little daughter, Jane. she wants to be a boy. And guess what? We got a little, a little knit penis for her. Here you go, Jane, fondle the ball and shaft. It's yours now. It's okay, It's your. it's your balls and shaft now, Jane. People aren't ready for perverts and pedophiles to be openly running the world. So are we going to reach a point where at drag queen story time, you're going to have queen catfish stunk? Or you know they have all these crazy names: Kitty litter, queen kitty litter, which is, you know, slang for eating someone else's you know anus, Sorry, but that's you know. these are the people that read your kids: Queen, kitty litter, you know sexual term for eating anus. They read your kids. Are we going to get to a point where now, oh, Miss Kitty litter has a bag full of knit penises for your little girls to come up so they can experience what it's like to be transgender. And then Miss Kitty litter was up Here. fondle the shaft and balls. It's yours now. It's okay, Miss Kitty litter. this stuff is really scary, man. I mean, government tyranny is one thing when it's being proposed by weak, feckless frauds and criminals like Hillary Clinton and Joe Biden. But when you see this vaccine rollout and you see the side effects and you know it's not been tested on humans and you know it killed the animals it's been tested on and you know tens of thousands are dying from it And you know you don't need it And yet it's being forced upon our society, It's being forced upon us. and then you learn about the vaccine shedding. I've got people that work at medical practices telling me now that a new side effect they're hearing about is men that has sexual relations with vaccinated women are experiencing some interesting swelling down under. So like an extra, an extra large penis net type of situation. So is that, is that? is that what's next? I mean, seriously, when are we going to know? it'll be a year or two before we really know the side effects of just the vaccine. Of course, this is all by design, just like the pipeline shut down. Yeah, that's how it goes. Boy oh boy. there's so much I didn't get to. I'm going to do the first five minutes coming up in the next hour And then Paul Joseph Watson will be joining us. A couple of the news stories here: Governor Abbott is trying to save his skin before he's up for reelection, even though we know that he helped spike the bill to ban children from having transgender surgeries. I guess he's for chopping up little girls genitals. He got that one wrong. He got this one right. Governor Abbott issues executive order prohibiting government entities from acquiring masks in Texas, and they could be subject to a fine, Beautiful, Beautiful. There was another poll today and it asked Brits- I think this was Brits- are you woke? Yes, 12%. An extremist minority of 12% literally runs society. It's probably more than 12% in Sweden, where we have this headline today, Church of Sweden announces that it is trends, whatever that means. The Church of Sweden has published an open letter signed by a long list of priests, deacons and other church staff, proudly announcing that it is trends. The church is transgender. now, maybe God too is transgender. This was posted on their official website. It decried the fact that some feminists are trying to protect female spaces from biological men. They don't want hairy men with balls walking into their swimming changing rooms in front of their children. Oh my God, how horrible, how bigoted, how offensive, how intolerant- as well as they don't want massive biological men with clear strength, physique endurance, stamina advantages, completely obliterating female athletes in female sports. Klaus Schwab says: give up that pesky private property, take the brain shit and just let billionaire technocrats take control of everything. No, But he's wrapped in a rainbow flag. Oh, okay, go on then. So this entire LGBT movement went from: oh, we just want to get gay married, we just want tolerance. So that, and now to this. this is a headline out of Breitbart Crafter offers bitty book soft packer: crochet penis pattern for young, trans and non-binary children. So the transgender Crafter is advertising a pattern for a crocheted prosthetic penis that can be borne by young, trans and non-binary children. And on this advertisement they literally show it attached to a diaper: A knitted penis for extremely small girls to wear in their pants if their parents believe them to be transgender. Can you imagine the level of mental illness and predator-like behavior for somebody to literally want to attach a knitted prosthetic penis to the young girl who still wears a diaper? It went from gay marriage intolerance to this. It's gone too far. literally drag queen kids being paraded around in nightclubs at midnight taking tips from weirdos and perverts, Now prosthetic knitted penises- absolutely revolting. We'll be right back, don't go away. In-game blueprint for global enslavement, made 14 years ago, accurately predicted the globalist takeover using the great reset and the threat of a virus. This film is now more important than ever. I noticed just a few months ago that suddenly the limited supply we had at infowarstorecom had sold out And people were really talking about the documentary because major platforms like Amazon had banned it, because the globalists had openly criticized the film, like The New York Times, And so we printed 20,000 copies- Now back in print, and in less than two weeks we've already sold half of them. The view says subway passengers should just have given their money to serial criminal Neely. Her Carlson announces Twitter show. Elon Musk tweets: cool, Welcome. I've got the inside baseball on that and why it's so important. A lot of critical AI news. We're going to be breaking down Texas AG to investigate hospitals that provide irreversible gender transition care to minors And we have grizzly video and photos of how they give girls a penis. They chop most of the meat off their forearm, create an artificial penis that normally rots and falls off. Uh, it's beyond Hellraiser. It's what they're doing. We will continue on from there, looking at new evidence of how electric cars have a bigger carbon footprint, Then gas cars will break that down. I try to take some more fossil fuel to create one than a car driven on average a hundred thousand miles. so when you want to take them out, you can. You want them on a real short lease. Pigs on a farm getting fattened up before they're slaughtered: are they giving the pigs food because they like them? Come on, people. This is beyond communism though. It's race war, it's culture war, it's Cloward and Pippen to bankrupt the country, and all the quote craziness you hear about in universities 20 years ago is now reality because it's a plan to take us down, just like sterilizing children and cutting their genitals off, or cutting little girls' forearms off, and pull those photos up of somebody this morning to give them an artificial penis that doesn't even work. These are the horrors of government and the horrors that they're just normalizing, all by design. right now, As the first humanoid is born in the UK BBC, So now T-Mobile shutters flagship San Francisco and mass exodus escalates. Walmart, Whole Foods- all closing All over the country in big cities. And here's another one: They've announced that by 2030, 90% of farms will be shut down because- quote, farms are bad for the earth because plants and animals create carbon dioxide. people are turning against them, but they seem to only be doubling down. or you think the globalists are winning right now. I think you're right that the American people are the leaders in so many ways of the world because of their strength of heart, and I don't say that arrogantly, I don't say that with exceptionalism or any of the slogans, but the American people have been on the land that God put us on and we're especially blessed. and I think the best of the Americans, which you know, I think largely- are an audience from your show, ironically enough, the best Americans, the smartest Americans, the toughest Americans, those Americans that cherish their God, their family, their land, have woken up. they haven't let themselves be poisoned with this shot. they're not letting their children be poisoned by the brainwashing of wokeism, rainbow flags, transgender surgery, which is really a form of child sacrifice. we are rising up as separate entities, separate leaders, separate voices, and that's going to carry the day. Alex is for individual counties and towns and states to say no. we're not accepting the jurisdiction of Joe Biden, we're not accepting him as a president, in our school district, in our county supervisor, and that's the good news. people recognize he's not real. So Tucker has been growing and evolving and I think prayer goes a long way And people really need to know that prayer is the most powerful weapon in the universe. So I want to encourage people to pray for you personally, Alex, to pray for your people and your staff and your channel. Pray for me. We are rising to serve our country, to serve out of loyalty and love to our Constitution, our family, our liberties. We are rising up and sacrificing for a greater good because our Heavenly Father is calling us to this fight And this is also a fight that's intergenerational. When you played that clip of Dorothy and Toto, the thought came to me: one of the most powerful things that can happen, that can set the deep state in their minions, their priests, of woke-ism and transgenderism and every evil thing, and school boards and such the most powerful PSYOP is for a young boy or girl between 12 and 14,, 15, to go in- even younger than that if they're skilled- to go in and speak and say: my name is Betsy Sue and I do not want to become a boy. I do not want to cut my breasts off. My name's Johnny and I don't want to cut my penis off and become a girl. And I'm offended that you're trying to push this down my throat. I'm offended when I see books about little boys being raped by men in the shower. I'm offended and disgusted by you. And God says: vengeance is mine, I shall repay. being pushed into their schools for a woke agenda of these old people over 40 or 50 that have never been married, that don't know what a man or a woman is, some purple haired, multiple pierced, rainbow flag worshipping lunatic from San Francisco that happens to move into a school and corrupt a school board in Texas or Idaho, Of course I don't think Texas allows them. This is the way to fight back is by going into your counties, going into your school boards with groups of people. We've got an entity on our website, globalfreedomtvcom, called the Constitutional Law Enforcement Committee. This is a committee people can form. It's like the committees of safety, but it's about going and saying we are not allowing anything that violates the Constitution in our county, in our school boards, and we will sue you civilly and criminally for corrupting a minor. You're teaching religion when you teach transgenderism and the Constitution says you will not establish and teach a religion And that's right. And now they even have New York Times articles admitting transgenderism and the fake environmental movement is the new leftist state religion. And look, Texas is okay compared to some states, but Austin's totally captured. It's just as bad. They parade the elementary students around at the LGBT events. It's all happening. they're moving into the street. I can hear them marching feet. they're moving into the street. I am concerned that you're right. the globalists are in desperation. Prayer is changing things and we're rising up And remember this: the left, the transgender, the rainbow flag. as much as we pray for the salvation of souls, some of these people are going to go homicidal, lunatic, mad dog, crazy, And they're all into their demonic agenda. So there are portions of the population that are going to even become more zombified, violent, subhuman, if you will. What I see happening on a political pragmatic level is the bringing in of Gavin Newsom into replace Kamala Harris. Either they'll get rid of her one way or another. aside from this- And I think that's another reason Putin and Russia have stood up and have said: woke is a crime against humanity. Russia wrote into its constitution that marriage is between a man and a woman. Why can't the United States do that? Why can't states do that? Marriage is between a man and a woman. It was created by God for being fruitful and multiply, not for a perverse, you know, masturbatory exercise and all of the other dysfunctions that follow the homosexual, transgender surgical alteration. We're creating a generation of madness And I've said this before too. We are suffering this curse, this affliction, because of the bloodshed and chaos and violence that we've unleashed upon the world for the past 20 years, starting with 9-11.. So Bush and Cheney and these other traitors and Obama and Biden that launched us into this military juggernaut since 2001 onward, We're now reaping the benefit of that curse, or I should say the horrors of that curse. And that is the spiritual moment where people need to. But viewer discretion is advised when we come back- And I actually have surgical videos, but we're not going to show those- of them chopping little girls' breasts off, chopping little boys' testicles off, But they also chop parts of their arms off. And again, this is beyond a Clive Barker novel or a horror movie like Hellraiser. That's a movie. This is really happening, with the establishment up there saying: we're the medical system, This is good. So we're going to show you what's going on, what they're teaching the kids to do, And they're taking children from parents all over the world now, including the US, And literally we'll wait till you see it. It's too much to watch the videos, okay, of them chopping the penises up and cutting the uteruses out and cutting the breast off. But I'll show you photos, okay, And I'll give you the medical background on that type of surgery, particularly coming up. Please remember, the only way this hardcore news and information gets out is you. You're the ambassador of the information, You're the Paul Revere, You're everything. We can stop these people. You'll want to watch InfoWars updates, all that good stuff, and I'll see you next time. I want to just make this point. The major corporations, the big banks, the media, they're all trying to sexualize our children. They're trying to make it harder, to screw them up and form a relationship with the system and the medical system. And there's major studies out on suicide death, highest rates of people in government studies. So these aren't people being abused because they're transgender, by all the mean people who are trying to reject this attack. This is being done by the system. Now look at this doll. This doll's being pushed all across North America and in Europe. many other dolls like it- Dolls with penises to confuse children and to sexualize children so they become interested in what that is. This is the whole pedophile system. Phalloplasty was invented in 1936 and first performed in 1946 in Russia in a man that had his genitals blown off. And it doesn't work. It creates a mess. doesn't have any real feeling in it. The nerves are all dead. How do they do it? Here it is. This is being done to tens of thousands of girls a year in the United States. that quote: want a penis. They cut off the forearm, skin and tissue. This is a girl's forearm. Her muscles have been framed to create a fake phallus that doesn't function until they take the skin and the muscles down to the bone. They will take and make her a fake urethra. She'll probably be incontinent. She will certainly never function like a man and her muscles won't grow back. Google phalloplasty or phalloplasty P-H-A-L-L-O-P-L-A-S-T-Y. okay, There's videos of it being done. I'm not going to show it to you. This is what they call care for young mentally ill individuals: literally cutting off their arm and their tissue to make them a penis, legalizing horrible mutilation. Here's a young woman that's had her breast cut off. This is right out of Hellraiser. You take a closer look at the young girl. you notice a lot of cutting marks from self-harm. This is a sign of severe mental illness and, don't worry, the state's more than happy to complete that for her. This is the fake penis, where they cut off the muscles and the tissue. They then form it Again. in almost all cases it rots off and causes infections and has to be surgically removed within a year on average. They are taking thigh tissue to make the penis. This is the total psychotic government that we have. Washington Democrat Governor Inslee signs controversial bill allowing government to take away minors from parents and not tell them where they are and cut their breasts and uteruses off and cut parts of their arms off. Republicans demand answers after suicides- plural in NIH transgender study and it goes into the high level of suicide with people in the government study. They're literally killing people. They want to euthanize you. This is as close as they can get. but now all over the Western world. they're saying that they are going to. they're not saying it. they're saying, hey, we're going to have state push you to commit suicide and the state's your guardian. when you're mentally ill, We decide to kill you and say you agreed to it. A child or a mentally ill person is out of the age of consent. Texas AG to investigate a hospital that provides irreversible gender transition to minors, cutting their penises and breast off. Absolutely. This is psychotic. This is a cult. Look at this transgender woman right here. Trans woman is cleared of flashing her penis at three. moms using Ohio YMCA for a judge said she's too fat. He's too fat for his genitals to be seen. This is all just pervert planet, ladies and gentlemen. trans Starbucks Marisa screams a customer for misgendering him assaults. we're gonna be taking your calls on this incredibly important subject that we are now not just in a proxy war with Russia and China and Iran. we're now in a war with them. we're on the March, the empires on the run, Alex Jones and the GCN radio network. have you waited your whole life to become a mother? well, you're probably a racist, sexist, homophobe. LGBT activists have already convinced the midwives Alliance of North America to stop referring to their clients as women and mothers and instead call them pregnant people and birthing individuals, so transsexuals won't get offended. numerous midwives have protested this language change, calling it an attack on women. in an open letter, they say: by embracing the idea that any human other than those in a class called women can carry offspring to term, give birth to them and nurse them. we are prioritizing gender identity over biological reality. obviously, this ideology contributes to the cultural erasure of women's unique power to give birth. meanwhile, back in America, Planned Parenthood had questions about. sale of aborted babies are sexist. and it gets better. Twitter characterizes disagreeing- that's an actual quote- with someone's opinion as abusive behavior and will ban you if you're criticizing quote. liberalism can't make that up. I mean, meanwhile they're teaching five-year-olds how to go to tranny bathrooms. meanwhile we're drinking fluoride. meanwhile, meanwhile, we're being lecture on what words we can use by a bunch of totalitarians masquerading as liberals. what a joke. I want to go to a boom. We'll be back. stay with us. We're on the march, the empire's on the run, Alex Jones and the GCN Radio Network. Have you waited your whole life to become a mother? Well, you're probably a racist, sexist, homophobe. LGBT activists have already convinced the Midwives Alliance of North America to stop referring to their clients as women and mothers and instead call them pregnant people and birthing individuals, so transsexuals won't get offended. Numerous midwives have protested this language change, calling it an attack on women. In an open letter, they say, by embracing the idea that any human other than those in a class called women can carry offspring to term, give birth to them and nurse them, we are prioritizing gender identity over biological reality. Obviously, this ideology contributes to the cultural erasure of women's unique power to give birth. It is encoded in our female bodies. Let's really show people how dumb the anti-gunners are. Let's really talk to them. Let's ask them if we should ban cars because somebody runs over somebody with a Chevy Silverado. Is it the fault of all Chevy Silverados? Well, it's not the fault of the car. if you're a transgendered hero like Caitlyn Jenner, Then you can run over somebody with a car and get away with it. Then it's okay. then, Well, I would also ask them about all the anti-free speech movements taking place, And you know why? is it that in North Korea the citizens can't own guns? Don't they get it That human empowerment is about believing in the individual. I don't mind bragging about it, but it's just Americana as you can get. It's like a royal flush of Americana both sides of my family, sickeningly Americana. If there was American royalty I'd be it folks, okay, And I sit here and I watch this crash- tell me that I'm a Russian agent because I don't want to have a nuclear war. You people are agents of evil and agents of corruption and you know what you claim. you're taking over the world to spread democracy and freedom. George Soros trying to teach kids how to be transgender and all this stuff, and funding right-wing Nazis in Ukraine. Well, if that's what America is spreading, I don't want any part of it. The truth is, this isn't America. This is about your foreign banks running America into the ground. We want our coal plants turned back on. So what is the point of that? I'm not disagreeing with Skalsen. I just don't see the preponderance of proof. I see some proof there, But regardless, Putin didn't try to take my guns. Putin didn't try to forcibly inoculate me. Putin didn't try to put in transgender bathrooms. He's doing the opposite in Russia. So whether they've adopted- quote- conspiracy culture because it sells with the public, because it's it's accurate, or maybe they're being converted. I know he met with Sholzenitsyn a lot. I don't lionize Putin. Joe Biggs is going to pop in from the Bloomberg anti-gun rally in Austin. Then we'll go back to Joel Scowsen and take your calls. Stay with us. Have you waited your whole life to become a mother? Well, you're probably a racist, sexist, homophobe. LGBT activists have already convinced the Midwives Alliance of North America to stop referring to their clients as women and mothers and instead call them pregnant people and birthing individuals, so transsexuals won't get offended. Numerous midwives have protested this language change, calling it an attack on women. In an open letter they say: by embracing the idea that any human other than those in a class called women can carry offspring to term, give birth to them and nurse them, we are prioritizing gender identity over biological reality. Obviously, this ideology contributes to the cultural erasure of women's unique power to give birth. It is encoded in our female bodies. several protesters were arrested, so he's going to update us on that. i'm also going to be speaking with tim donnelly. he is a former california assemblyman, also ran for a california governor, and he's going to be coming in to to talk about sb 277, which, of course, is that draconian, mandatory uh vaccine vaccine bill that a lot of opponents there in california have really been fighting tirelessly to get this overthrown. uh, he's going to give us an update on that as well, um. but first, you know, i kind of wanted to wrap up sort of what we've been talking about here today. a lot of these stories, some of them seem so far out of left field, uh, you know transsexuals wanting you to say, birthing individuals. you can't call yourself a mom or a parent, or you know that you're pregnant, uh, things like that. they seem so far out of left field, uh. but we're starting to see authoritarianism shifting into totalitarian moves, and so i wanted to break that down. there's a very, um, important distinction between the two. and of course, he did not allow himself to be baited into that. he just simply went on to say: i think that this hitler example is very clear here. now let's talk about what's happening presently and sort of come around full circle to how this is like germany in the 30s and 40s. so we've got this article up on info wars dot com. trannies want you to say birthing individuals instead of pregnant women. the phrase pregnant women promotes trans hatred, and this is according to some lgbt activists, and they have already convinced the midwives alliance of north america to stop referring to their clients as women and mothers and instead call them pregnant people and birthing individuals, so that transsexuals won't get offended. now i am offended. what is the problem here? i want to be a mother. i want to, you know, be pregnant one day. twitter characterizes disagreeing with someone's opinion as abusive behavior, and he points out that this is just days after top feminists called on the un to censor the internet over critical tweets. so, uh, one example of the way twitter allows you to hold other account holders you know responsible. or you can say: uh, they disagree with my opinion. so twitter posts that are offensive, disrespectful or in disagreement with my opinion are warrant censorship now can actually get you banned from the site. it constitutes an act of abuse or harassment. and this is exactly what these two feminists, anita sarkeesian and zoe quinn, were speaking at, uh, at the un, when they were actively calling for, uh, the un to censor the internet for any content that they deemed to be offensive, which included telling someone you suck, or calling them a liar, or by calling a transgender person by their original name, like calling bruce, jenner, bruce and not katlyn. so that's offensive and you know. so we're already starting to see these people policing thought and because of what they believe in, what they think, they are now actively fighting to censor your first amendment right? your first amendment right to free speech. i mean, we saw it out there today at the protest that ladies in the pink shirt were filming the two protesters being arrested and they had this huge smile on their face and they're like, yeah, we're going to take away your, not only your second amendment right, but also your first amendment right, because we don't want you to be able to say anything that we find offensive and gone. america now is similar to 1930s germany? and i think that this is a pretty important article. it's by illinois mic and, uh, he goes on to talk, talk about how, prior to the adoption of national socialism, germany was essentially a christian nation and it was a very progressive country. at the time, before the rise of hitler, it was considered the most socially progressive country in europe. they had open homosexuality. transgendered persons were, all you know, just lauded. they had the whole cabaret culture there. and uh, he said, in fact the first recorded male to female gender reassignment surgery occurred in berlin in 1931. so here's a society much like ours today, where what what we would call liberals today, we're sort of advocating for this, pushing for this, and because it was a christian, mostly christian people, they were tolerant and live and let live you do your thing. but they, they was kind of this undercurrent where they were feeling like all of this perversion was, um, eating away at the fabric of their society, and especially when they started pushing it on children. so then all of a sudden they've got this tough talking hitler coming in, uh, speaking in populous language, about restoring the greatness of germany and knowing that this is exactly what the average citizen wanted to hear. so i guess you're going to be coming back in uh kid later in the show, kit daniels give us his rundown on exactly what went on out there at the anti-campus carry rally. of course, no one once again wanted to talk to you. we're on the march, the empire's on the run, alex jones and the gcn radio network. have you waited your whole life to become a mother? well, you're probably a racist, sexist, homophobe. lgbt activists have already convinced the midwives alliance of north america to stop referring to their clients as women and mothers and instead call them pregnant people and birthing individuals, so transsexuals won't get offended. numerous midwives have protested this language change, calling it an attack on women. in an open letter they say: by embracing the idea that any human other than those in a class called women can carry offspring to term, give birth to them and nurse them, we are prioritizing gender identity over biological reality. obviously, this ideology contributes to the cultural erasure of women's unique power to give birth. it is encoded in our female bodies. when you're the other sex, They put you in a database and keep it secret from the parents, and then, by the second grade, that's the plan. it's right here. oh, the parents came to the school and said: stop telling my daughter she's a boy, stop telling my son she's a girl. this is the school, not just taking parental rights, but screwing your child up When they say CPS is involved. we have a law. your child's being taken to be raised in a dormitory with other trans children. talk about pedophilia, and you don't get to see them again until they're 18, bye-bye. And then they turn your child against them while they're in this brainwashing facility and you never see them again, Until maybe you see them in a coffee shop and your son is a woman and totally mentally ill, with purple hair, And then they commit suicide. And then it's your fault. they committed suicide because the state had to take them away to protect them. And it's all about sterilizing the children, it's all about depopulation. Washington state bill hides runaway children from transgender unsupportive parents. Washington bill to allow medical transgender interventions on minors without parental consent. This isn't just have an abortion of your 11-year-old who got raped before you even know what's going on. No, now There's no parental consent when they sterilize them with chemicals or physically. You tell somebody this ten years ago, they wouldn't believe it. Now look at California. You're right. So I'm thinking, you know, we need to dig in our heels, because if the country falls- and I believe that it will and it may- we may need to fall to be built up the way it should have been. Now we have that choice to make. We can do that or we can let them take our country and build it how they want. And I'm sick of this crap. I'm sick of the transgender stuff. It's in our face. We know you're there, Don't hang up. Let's talk about that, because, for folks who don't know, multiple states have passed laws to take five year olds, six year olds, away from their parents if they won't chop their balls off. I'm not. You silenced those voices. What we want to do in Davos is push the reset button. Soon as we start exposing the Great Reset, the sooner these globalists start going to prison, Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. It's Alex Jones From the front lines of the information war. it's Alex Jones. Alright Dorlito wanted to get into the quote transgender cult and it's a total psyop. we all know that. I've got some news we want to cover on that. that's next level evil. Here's a short clip of a fat, demonic tranny who threatens to kill people that don't let men in women's bathrooms. Here it is. If you back a wild animal into a corner, they're going to become a dangerous animal. So if you want to die on that hill of yours of righteousness and moral majority, then you go right ahead. I dare you to try and stop me from going into a women's bathroom. It will be the last mistake you ever make. I dare you to try and stop a transgender woman in my presence from using the bathroom. It will be the last mistake you ever make. Pause, Back up and start again. They're trans. day of rage, All of it. Continue If you back a wild animal into a corner. they're going to become a dangerous animal. So if you want to die on that hill of yours of righteousness and moral majority, then you go right ahead. I dare you to try and stop me from going into a women's bathroom. It will be the last mistake you ever make. I dare you to try and stop a transgender woman in my presence from using the bathroom. It will be the last mistake you ever make. This is a call to action and a call to arms to everybody within the United States that are scared, worried, have children that are transgender, lesbian, bi or gay. This is a call to action. You need to arm up, plain and simple: Go out, buy a gun, learn how to use it efficiently, through and through, because the time to act is now. You need to protect yourself and you need to protect your fellow transgender brothers and sisters and they's and them's. You need to protect the rest of us in the LGB community. As I'm going to- Pause, I got five seconds. So if a woman is scared of a six foot four man that looks like Frankenstein in the bathroom and all the weird stuff they get caught doing and all the assaults and the rest of it. They got guns. they're going to make you pay. I mean, if you want to know what evil looks like, folks, this is it And this is the vanguard of this cult, and they want our children to finish up with a swag job. The time to act is now. You need to protect yourself and you need to protect your fellow transgender brothers and sisters and theys and thems. You need to protect the rest of us in the LGB community, as I'm going to do myself, Because there are lots of people like me who are not afraid to die. I love my girlfriends to death, but I would rather die for them to secure their safety, freedom and future than to live and not have anything done. So you go ahead. you protect your kids. don't commit suicide. don't start killing some people. You don't let me in the bathroom with your five year old girl. I'm going to kill you. And now Washington State passes a bill to isolate trans kids from parents to enable gender care. They passed a bill that would allow transgender children to receive medical interventions without the consent of their parents or guardians. So see, they're not of age to consent, but they are now. The bill passed both houses- Senate Bill 595599,, Bill 5599, and it goes through it all. They're going to build shelters and put the children- quote- in them in the cult. This is the government taking your children. Thank you, I've been a long time listener, first time calling your show. I have a bunch of your products. I'd like you to see my cabinet Shout out to Owen for coming out with the bone broth and the coffee. it is an amazing coffee. I use it almost every day and it's a great substitute for sugar for all those info warriors. And yeah, I just wanted to talk a little bit about the whole World War III in Ukraine situation and how people- you know people are still- they're asleep to the fact that you know, in distraction of all this Trump and transgenderism, we're still walking into World War III and nobody- you know, even Matt and I- I agree- And you know this whole basically regime change that's going on in Ukraine. it's basically the same playbook over and over whenever they get the president that they want in charge. It's been going on longer since before I was born and it stopped for a little bit when Trump was in office and now that Biden's in office, it's back in business, back to business. In fact, they've accelerated it. They're trying to catch up. You know, Alex, covering this story of this Washington bill that are barring parents from intervening on child gender transitions. OK, see this. this, this is like out in the open at this point. OK, this is not, like you know, trying to give an opinion. This is not trying to speculate that maybe they're going down this route, Maybe they actually do want to separate children from their parents, Maybe it's just a far right wing conspiracy or it's just like a far right wing, you know, talking point to get. you know, people all amplified and fear mongered and afraid of the trans people, because the trans people need to be accepted in society. This is out in the open, OK, this. this is about as clear as it could possibly get for humanity. All right, Doesn't matter what color you are, It doesn't matter at all, because this LGBTQ woke alphabet disgusting mafia, these pedophiles that are going after your children. what's happening with this Washington bill is out in the open, barring parents from intervening on child gender transitions. Of course they are, because these people want your children and they want to mutilate their genitals, whether there's parental consent or not. Now you sit here and you ask yourself how the hell does society get to a place where parental consent gets rendered void and useless? Well, when you create little safe spaces and you create little protected classes and you coddle people and you don't tell people the truth and you don't push back and you speak out against the mental instability and the evil that's actually taking place in society. when you switch asylums- OK, when you switch attendees that belong in asylums and put them in positions of power, you put them in the Senate, you put them in local government, in the federal government, you put them in culture, you put them in Hollywood, you prompt, them up in Disney, you prompt them up in the music industry, in so-called education and universities, you give them positions of power and influence. That is how you get to this place where not only do we have trans insurrectionists, transurrectionists, we have trans terrorists. and like I always say on the show, guys, trans people are not real. It's a mental illness, it's a mental instability, a figment of their imagination, No matter how nice they claim to be, it doesn't matter. These people have lost their minds. Now let me ask you a very basic, fundamental question. In a free- and let's say, let's use their words right- A democratic, a democracy where everybody has a say in anything and everyone can pretty much just have an opinion when they want- No, those are just buzzwords that they use to mobilize the useful idiots to actually believe they live in a society where they can participate. But if you come out- and the federal government is now going to come out- and they come out and say, listen, if your child wants to have their penis chopped off as a little boy, then you as the parent cannot get in the way. You want to know why? Because that's transphobic and that's child abuse. Of course they're going to do this in Washington. Of course they're going to push these bills. guys, Abusers classically pretend to be the savior or the protector of the ones that they are targeting to abuse. So these child abusers that you see in so-called positions of power, whether it be in politics or in mainstream culture, in Hollywood, in movies, in Disney, in the music industry, or these psychos like Dylan Mulvaney all over social media, they're all predators. OK, they're predators that propped themselves up as protectors. They appeal to little kids so they can lure little kids in, to get them to think that your parents are not the ones that are going to protect you. Your parents are the ones that are suppressing you. So you know what, little boy, if you want to chop your penis off because you feel like you're actually a little girl or vice versa, and your parents stop you, that's oppression and child abuse. So you allow it to happen. You let that doctor get in there and feel you up. You let that doctor get alone with you without parental consent and touch your genitals and chop them up and do God knows what with your genitals and your bodily tissues. You think these people aren't engaged in some sick, twisted mad scientist New World Order agendas. This is how they do it. The New World Order is going to normalize pedophilia by saying this: If the child wants to have sex with an adult, in the name of liberalism and bodily autonomy, who are you, even if you are a parent, to tell that child who they can or cannot have sex with? Because love and pride and LGBTQ and care and tolerance and equality. they're going to pin it on the child And they're already doing it in Washington. No parental consent. If the child wants to chop their penis off, you get the hell out of the way, mom and dad. And that's coming with the pedophiles. That P is coming. The LGBTQ P is coming. That's why they're trying to normalize the minor attracted persons. What the hell are these people so afraid of Getting cancelled? What are you homophobic? You transphobic? That's the real homophobia. Unwilling to tell some homosexual: no, I don't agree with you. Unwilling to tell some self-proclaimed transsexual: no. I don't agree with your mental instability. I don't like it. It's not going to be normalized in my society, because you're driving society mad, Lost its mind entirely. So of course there's going to be no code of honor, no sense of morality. So me going 1,000 miles an hour and Alex Jones being a little loud every single day is nothing compared to what these people are actively and fully functioning in with their operations. We need more people. We need more people that are seeing this stuff for what it truly is. We need shame to come back, man, so people understand that it will not be tolerated. Here's another one with the post-millennial trans-identified woman paraded around naked. This is a dude with mastectomy scars and his so-called- so-called- you know- surgery down there made from arm flesh on a UK show called Naked Education, a British television show aimed at teaching children all about body positivity recently featured two trans-identified females- dudes showing off their mastectomy scars and one showing off a surgically created neopenis fashioned from the skin and flesh of the individual's forearm. Oh yeah, little kid. Yeah, yeah, Come watch our show so you can discover and learn what a neopenis is. Yeah, little girl. Yeah, little girl, You want to know what a neopenis is? Come watch our show. little girl. Hey, little boy. little boy, you want a neopenis? Bill Gates wants you to have a neopenis. Bill Gates want to show. he wants to show you his neopenis. Yeah, Come watch this show. Disgusting, We'll be right back. You need to get coordinated with not only your food but also your health supplements, because it's going to be a matter of life and death. So support InfoWars store. In the last month I got a little busy so I didn't sign the books. We didn't have them for sale, But now I signed the last books. You can get them right now. Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones. Hey, little kids, you wanna see, uh, you wanna see this, uh, this trans freak's neo-penis, little kid, Isn't that insane that last story from uh, before the break: A neo-penis, It's, it's, it's just. I don't even know what the hell's a neo-penis- Jeez, dude. it's just like: do these wanna redefine everything? It's just like a fake penis, like you know what I mean. Walkin' around with a fake penis. oh, look, look at my neo, look at my neo-penis, neo-penis. oh, my gosh, dude, gosh, these people are. it's just, it's just perverted, dude, they're perverts. Imagine this guy walkin' around, you know, alone, at night, just pop, pops out. it's just pops out. oh my god, dude, no pun intended, just pops out of your, out of your children's closet, wanna see my neo-penis? huh, huh, huh, huh, huh. gosh man, How has this been normalized? I just, I just, I don't know man speakin', speakin' speakin' of clown world man, Dylan Mulvaney. all right, let's, let's get to Dylan, all right. and that's exactly what Dylan Mulvaney, I think, is doing in his own mind. because this clip has resurfaced, Dylan Mulvaney touts relationship with God. okay, he said- I don't think he made a mistake with me referring to God. I'm I'm surprised that Dylan uh actually identified God as a he, which you uh, he kinda misgendered God in in in his own worldview. obviously, God is a he because he's self-identified as a male: he, the Holy Spirit, he, God the Son, he, God the Father. uh, transgender advocate Dylan Mulvaney is portraying himself as a religious martyr while he tries to blur the nation's recognition that men and women have different needs and preferences. now here's a clip that's been resurfacing and I want you guys to take a look at it. if we do, we still have the clip, guys. Oh, okay, Yeah, you guys, we'll try and get that clip up, but it's Dylan- just it's so crazy- sitting there, totally mentally ill, almost like on the verge of crying, saying I don't think God made a mistake with me. I made a deal with God and I'm trying to work on my relationship with God and I hope that you know one day I can accept being trans and that it's not a curse, that being trans is not a curse. Um, I'm trying really hard to maintain a relationship with God and I don't think that He made a mistake with me. um, in that, maybe one day I will actually be grateful for being trans, that this isn't some curse, but it's just a different path to the same destination. Listen, listen, listen. because at the beginning, people that are like weak-minded, that aren't theologically, you know, really grounded in the Bible, you're like, oh my gosh, you know that person's lost. obviously, Dylan Mulvaney is lost. But where the doctrines of demons come in is where you can clearly see an individual like this creating a God in their own likeness, creating a version of Jesus, and creating a God, a transgender God, that is customized to fit their own degeneracy. that justifies their own mental instability and justifies their own immorality. That's what an idol is, That's what a false deity is, That's what a false God literally is. So these people will take God, they'll take concepts of Christianity and they'll tie it with emotionalism to get you to feel sorry for them and then, if you don't listen carefully, you think that God is going to turn back on His biological order For all my theologians out there and those that actually understand the scriptures. you think that God is going to turn His back on His biological order because He's going to cater to your feelings? I talked about this on Wednesday night on the Nightly News. We talked about how important it is that we not lose Bannon's voice. It's been a very important advisor. We'll be back with Donald Trump's speech at CPAC. Stay with us. President Trump's administration on Wednesday night withdrew Obama's guidance on transgender bathroom use in public schools. Now radical liberals are calling for violent protests in the streets. George DeKai from the original Star Trek tweeted out: the Trump administration's war on the LGBT community has begun. Be prepared to take our fight to the street. Are you with us, LGBT allies? That's where Glenn Beck goes to. You have a lot of them. Look, the Clinton News Network is one. That's where Glenn Beck went to go and say that Bannon is not a conservative. All right, we're going to go break and we're going to be right back with all the speech from Donald Trump, The Empires on the Run, Alex Jones and the GCN Radio Network. President Trump's administration on Wednesday night withdrew Obama's guidance on transgender bathroom use in public schools. Now radical liberals are calling for violent protests in the streets. George Dekai from the original Star Trek tweeted out: the Trump administration's war on the LGBT community has begun. Be prepared to take our fight to the street. Are you with us, LGBT allies? It has ideas, it has policies, it has beliefs, it has unifying spiritual systems, cultural systems, and then they have a goal of what that culture wants to be, And normally cultures are known for different things that they strive at and they succeed at, Or the barbarians. You've had those throughout history in every sector of the world During the murder, deaths, cannibalism, human sacrifice, things like that. Civilization is into art and literature and culture, But the globalists are bringing in a corporate barbatism, a barbarous system that totally in a piratical way, wages war against humanity from a psychopathic, cold-blooded perspective. And that's all basically coming to an end because humanity is rediscovering itself right now. But look at these headlines I'm going to cover when we come back. CNN host blames intolerant father for 12-year-old girl not wanting to see a men's penis in the locker room. This has been said by Obama as well. This is Como who said: you can't read WikiLeaks, only he can. People say that sounds crazy. Why would he tweet that and say that? Because they're told to, to get you used to sexualizing your children. This is pedophilia. I don't know if him saying it is a promotion of himself. I'm not saying he's one. Oh, certainly not. No, I'm saying that, saying how dare your daughter not want to see a man in the locker room with his penis? That you're intolerant. See how that works: Sexualizing your children. it starts with ending genders. They're not having you accept other genders, They're ending them. We are fighting the fake news. We know they're the fake news, but they're not being faked or qualmo up. They're saying: let grown men and little girls locker rooms, let them see their genitals, or you're not a loving person. So that's saying: let pedophilia take place. That's what it is. But see, oh, because it's for transgendered, it's okay. The man thinks he's a woman, so let him in there with your kids. They're seeing what they can get away with. They're seeing how far they can move the Overton window where you'll just accept anything. They're trying to get you to lay down and they're saying: let a grown men come in girls locker rooms at the YMCA, at your public school, at anywhere. David already covered it, Doing a great job. I want to play this clip of Trump saying our enemies the media. we're at war And it's so true We're always supposed to sit there and let them dictate and be our enemies and and, and you know, say literally: let adult men come in the shower with your daughter or your hateful. That is promoting pedophilia. But they play these games with the terms. Nambla basically runs the UN folks, Okay, And they're so scared they're getting caught now that they're trying to normalize it and say: well, you're not just transgender, You're not just this, No, you like kids, or you identify as a kid when you're a 50 year old pig, like man. So somebody's eight year old daughter is okay. Well then, my 357 Magnum and the bullets that come out of it identify with your head. These bullets identify as your brain tissue. Is that okay too? You want to go, you know, with your ding dongs hanging out little girls. Is it okay if Smith and Wesson identifies as your brain tissue? I mean, I'm just asking. The headline will be: Jones threatens to kill transgenders. I didn't say that. I said they use the whole transgender thing to say: let men come in showers with little girls or you're not tolerant. That's pedophilia. What's being pushed. I don't care who says it or if it's some asshole on CNN. Excuse me, I never use a lot of profanity on air. This is Christian show and I apologize and I'm going to stop it, But I got to tell you there aren't names or words strong enough to describe people like that. I'm going to play that clip too, But let's play somebody who's actually trying to get jobs and turn our energy back on and bring us together, Someone who isn't up there telling us the number one issue is grown men with little girls and showers because of little girls don't like seeing men's penises. They're bad people. These are quotes. Okay, That's how weak-minded they think we are. Yes, CNN, I happen to have a 12 year old daughter. oh it's so horrible. he said the nation's name. we can't allow it. it's pure evil. oh my god, it's so horrible. gcn radio network president trump's administration on wednesday night withdrew obama's guidance on transgender bathroom use in public schools. now radical liberals are calling for violent protests in the streets. george decai from the original star trek tweeted out: the trump administration's war on the lgbt community has begun. be prepared to take our fight to the street. are you with us, lgbt allies? they just want to be left alone. our best people are just janitors and farmers and there's quiet people that just want to stay away from everybody because they understand what's going on, they see it and they don't know how they're supposed to work against it and hurts them so bad. this morning i got up and i saw the article in them: full wars com with qualmo promoting. in my view, what is the gateway? not the gateway, it's pedophilia. saying grown men should be in the shower with your daughter, your daughter should accept men's penises when she's a young girl because it's a transgender. they're saying: oh, this select group, be nice, be open, let men be with your daughter in the shower. and i got enraged. i i'd looked at him as a man, as a scumbag, as an enemy of humanity, and my all my genetics said that's the enemy. and so i want to come on air and just you know, really tell you what i think about it, because he's a predator, maybe he, maybe he's. push that as a religious movement to dominate us and break our will and corrupt us, where we don't know why, the authority is telling us something that our instinct tells us to rise up against. i'm gonna- i'm gonna come back and play the clip of him- but the video is up on info wars dot com- to the raining down on us the corruption, like the pope saying: if you question government, you like to have sex with feces. i don't even talk like that. the pope said that because we know what he's into. see, they want to tell you what they're into, to introduce the idea i'm forced to cover what they're doing because we've been overrun by them singing and host blames. intolerant father for 12 year old girl not wanting to see a penis in the locker room. let me tell you something. any of my daughters see a penis in the locker room, guaranteed some heads are gonna roll. chris komo in bizarre twitter comment. i wonder if she's the problem or her overprotective, intolerant dad. teach tolerance. yeah, we want to have a tranny in the shower with your daughter and you don't like it. so you're intolerant. you should accept. hey, qualmo, let's look at the evidence. kids, probably baby, does. it will be always known as a traitor, anti-american. he really is. he hates you and your family. we're back. gcn radio network. president trump's administration on wednesday night withdrew obama's guidance on transgender bathroom use in public schools. now radical liberals are calling for violent protests in the streets. george decai from the original star trek tweeted out: the trump administration's war on the lgbt community has begun. be prepared to take our fight to the street. are you with us, lgbt allies? you know there's an area i have guilt that every time i analyze it and test it in my spirit, i know i'm doing the right thing, but i don't like to call cobert a piece of trash. i want to call glenn begge a piece of trash. a trader. i don't like to call uh quomo. you know, piece of trash and and and garbage. but when chris comoh, from his very well-known corrupt, evil family, globalist family, intolerant family, the pro livers and god understand, get out of our state, you're not welcome here here- when he comes out and says: you know, in a report about young girls in schools being seeing transgenders in their showers and seeing men's penises, when i was in sports, let me run a bunch of naked guys. quite frankly, you know you gotta get over that. that's your own sex. it's not normal in human societies to have. you know people male sometimes gotta go up to warships fishing whenever they see other guys naked. keep doing it, literally. i'm not just thanking you. it's amazing what we've built, how far we've come, and seeing that see back speech which just man did. we bet on the ride horse- uh, here's that report. than, david, i see it ends. chris Cuomo says that if 12 year old girls feel uncomfortable or scared by seeing a naked person in the women's locker room who has a penis but identifies as a woman, that the 12 year old girls are the quote problem because they're intolerant to transgender people. i'm really a man. i'll show you exactly what he said in his over 90 tweet. twitter meltdown, which included a rather lengthy twitter beef with me. an insane meltdown that is making headlines now, like in the daily caller, which says: cnn's chris Cuomo wants tolerance of naked men in women's restrooms. but it's so much worse than that. it all started when chris Cuomo- who, by the way, is the brother of the current governor of new york, andrew- responded to this father of force tweet who says: what do you tell a 12 year old girl who doesn't want to see a penis in the locker room. the cnn host responded: i wonder if she is the problem or her overprotective and intolerant dad. teach tolerance, he said- and this is when i got involved in the conversation, alerting everyone that cnn host chris Cuomo says that girls are quote intolerant for not wanting to see men's penises in girls locker rooms. i then issued a clarification that he was talking about 12 year old girls. when i said correction, chris Cuomo said: 12 year old girls are the quote problem for not wanting people with penises in girls locker rooms. you sick man. he then responded: find me the cases that show the spike, the real risk. well, for starters, you could take a look at this list of the top 25 recent instances of protransgender bathroom policies being dangerous to women and children. i don't have time to go through all 25 of the. i go get in the corner when i'm walking with men. he then was modest again: you little girl around us. i'll give you 10 times what you have, to which i responded: how are you going to give me 10 times more attention when my tweets have more engagement than yours? well, i just pointed out some facts, so let me point out a few more. i said: just read the replies to your original tweet and see how women feel about your insane statement. they're already feeling victimized. let me just point out again the fact that there has been compilations of at least the top 25 recent instances of crimes being committed because of this issue. because, by allowing anyone to use any bathroom that they choose because they supposedly identify as that gender you are saying that this 54 year old father now identifies as a six year old girl- should be allowed to use the women's bathroom, and maybe chris Cuomo should invite this guy over to play with his kids- i'm sorry this girl over, this little six year old girl, to come over and play with your daughter, chris. and if society is going to consider this person who has a white chromosome and a penis but puts a dress on and puts his hair in pigtails, if we're going to consider this person to be a girl, a woman and allow it to shower and change in the girls locker rooms and showers at the gym and at any school and any public facility and private facility- otherwise it's discrimination- then this opens up a bigger can of worms, as i posted. as i posted, what bathrooms will the other 29 legally recognized genders in new york use? because in the state of new york, where chris Cuomo it lives, there are 31 different genders that are legally recognized. it's not just male, female, trans, male, trans, female, this and that 31 different genders. so which bathroom is someone going to use if they just don't identify as any gender which is a legally recognized gender? by going down the slippery slope that these liberals want to push america down, you're opening the door to anybody, just deciding if they just want to start questioning their gender, which is also a gender, gender questioning. they're not sure they want to maybe try to be the different gender they want to explore and see how that feels. you're opening the door to anyone just saying, hey, i'm just gender questioning today. hey, you know, i think i'm just going to go and shower in the girls locker room today at the gym. this is twilight zone level in sanity. let me just have this little boy from Arnold Schwarzenegger's 1990 film kindergarten cop explain this to you: boys have a penis, girls have a vagina. okay, that's uh mark dice's report and uh, we're trying to explain some basic facts to, um, the press. i i can't understand that somebody like Cuomo would even still have his job after tweeting out stuff like that. but consider the fact that we got John Podesta joining the Washington Post now as a contributing columnist. they would not be fake news, would they remember? right, and that's what michael's right and it says right there: suspect threatened suicide by cop. there is this insane narrative of pinning up against each other, the police and obviously anyone. pretty much in the world right now there's there's so much hatred towards the cops and, on the flip side, there's so much hatred from the cops and cop supporters against protesters or activists, or whatever you want to call them. i think, really, people that kill anyone are just savages, period. whether they're a cop or a citizen, it does not really matter, but all this does is pin people up against each other. and then we have the issue of transgendered students. that also ties into this media facade. the media loves to talk about transgendered issues. they don't love to talk about the economy and jobs collapsing all over the place and the dow playing a yo-yo, because it's completely manipulated. watch as the dow crashes and silver goes down at the same time, which historically makes no sense- and gold goes down. it's completely manipulated, completely corrupt, and you have people making billions and billions of dollars every time it goes down, every time it goes up, because they know how to play the system and we're all getting screwed. but the media loves to talk about bathroom access for transgendered teen kids. i mean, hey, that's, that's key guys. let's not talk about anything else. let's not even talk about the illegal immigration issues which are being blown up and made insane. let's not talk about anything. transgendered bathrooms- oh my god, right. so i want to play for you a video about Missouri teenagers protesting a transgendered students use of the girls bathroom, and this is what the media focuses on. this is the facade. this is this dmz facade that i was talking about in north korea, where the media acts like they can spin the news, but guess what? the alternative media is winning and we're taking it away from transgendered bathrooms and this nonsense of fake racism that they keep pushing on us to make us hate each other. let's play this: Missouri teenagers protest- transgender students use of girls bathroom right now. i love that i had so many people out there that went counteract the people who walked out- around 200, walked out of class for nearly two hours at pillsborough high school, 30 to 40, showing their support for senior lila perry to use the girls locker room during jim. there is a lot of ignorance. i don't. and they are claiming that they're uncomfortable. how dare that one guy, by the way, reference basic biology and say that he was born a boy? look, i love everyone. i don't care. i believe alex doesn't care either. who cares? anyone could be transgender. that's not the issue. that is not the matter, but forcing it and make you the number one topic in the media and saying we all should just let transgender people walk all over us. everyone has the same rights. next up, alex jones has a powerful message for lewis farrakhan that is coming up in the next segment. do not miss it. we'll be back in two minutes with a message for lewis farrakhan. they've got huge problems. immigration without assimilation is invasion that can weaken our country. we don't need to go down the path of europe. let's insist on being the melting pot. let's forget this politically correct left notion that we're not a melting pot anymore. political correctness is destroying the united states of america completely and destroying its focus and putting it on transgendered issues and all these weird race-baiting topics that we've covered over and over again. i think it's time to shift the focus completely and that's why i want to bring derrick back, who is patiently holding from wyoming. i opened up the phone lines to talk about your awakening experience, escaping the mainstream media, escaping this system, and, derrick, i apologize for holding you over so long, but i wanted to ask you your take on all this because it seems so obvious to me. i mean, with the nebraska beef company being fined for asking if they're illegal aliens, were illegal aliens in the first place? is this not just so in your face? monsanto would probably be bankrupt. i mean honestly, cnn, tmz, everyone would just fall over and cover it and go crazy. oh my god. and everyone tomorrow, by tomorrow- everyone know what gmo's are. monsanto would be over, it'd be done if katlyn jenner did that, and i mean that she has a moral obligation now to help people. she got the celebrity she has, you know, had her transgendered transition and now it's her moral obligation. i don't care that she's transgendered, it's her moral obligation to tweet about real things. donald trump has a platform now where he could change the course of human history. he's so big, regardless of what you think about him- and i'm not saying i support him, by the way- regardless of what you think about him- he has a moral obligation and position right now, with his celebrity status, that he can change the planet. if he starts talking more about things like this headline on info wars dot com: trump evidence suggests obama protecting isis just broke live by kit daniels exclusive on info wars, where trump says it's almost like the us is protecting isis in an interview. if trump does more things like this, we can change the planet. so. faith goldie earlier was breaking down the fact that trump is surrounded. and they've got the democrat fact checkers in the southern property law center and and and right wing watch, you know, run by the southern property law center. they're running the show having laura loomer thrown out everything, and it's just this giant exercise in evil as the swamp closes in on president trump. so so lay out what you saw and what you witnessed, faith. well, say out of the gates that it's not just you know, the homo heretics, so to speak, within the conservative movements, but we actually have a very apparent to the naked eye trans lobby, now full of transvestites, transgenders, call them what you want, that we're on the ground at c-pack. we're talking about discernible men dressed in things like ostentatious ball gowns, etc. and so you know, the conservative, the so-called conservative reneo conservative movement that is just grasping at at at the heels of donald trump, are okay with everyone, no matter where they come from, no matter what they think or how they live their life. they pass no judgment unless you believe in america first, unless you believe in nationalism, unless you believe that both illegal and legal immigration- something needs to be done about the current state of policies right now. so what we saw were that the america first crowd of journalists, people like laura loomer, like myself, vidaircom, several people were denied- oh, nick fointas as well were denied press pants, passes, rather, other ones were denied entry into the event whatsoever, even after having spent. and myself, as a little canadian, all i did was basically get on the ground, follow the power lines, follow where the money was. in other words, who was actually making these decisions? and we ended up at the chairman of the american conservative union, matt schlapp. this is a guy who put on c-pack what's supposed to be the conservative political action conference, which had absolutely no signs of conservatism. i'm not sure what they were trying to conserve. more immigration, more transgenderism, what? what is america if that is what we're trying to conserve? and hey, i get it. a lot of people still reminisce about the reagan revolution, but that was for then. we're in a new era. yeah, i mean, that is that is the problem. but in terms of who's gonna run for the democrats, michelle obama's not gonna run because she needs a physical test and we know why she's not going to go through with that. but joe biden, if you look at all the polls, let's be serious. she has the, the neck and face of a man. she has huge shoulders. it looks like she's got a, a, a summer sausage, in her pants and we're not against trannies, but it does appear she's like obama was raised by a trend, transsexualness obsessed with it- that michelle obama is michael, which he's called in multiple speeches, michael. i mean, i've known several people who are very credible people, you know, involved in politics, and they believe exactly the same thing as you, alec. so this she's got. but we worked out yesterday she has an info wars protein bar down there, so it's all being explained because she's got nuts, but it's not the nuts that you're thinking about. well, but you know we make jokes about this. what weird sigh up with the elites are. they are so obsessed with the first lady that's a man, the kids are adopted and- and i mean that that's true, that i mean that's fake- well, i mean all. i mean. why do you think joan river said, oh my god, she's a trainee. she was dead a week later. i mean, that's all i'm saying, alex, is that when you're around the presence of men who address, like women, like some transgender people, they put the effort in, they can get away with looking like a woman and you say, well, fair enough, but a man in a dress is a man in a dress. and when you're around men, you get a certain presence, a masculine presence. when you're around women, you get a feminine presence. i was talking to a form that's like michelle's, like jimmy's, and glue me a beer right now. get his freedom. never enforce where i come. you're listening to the alex jones show. uh, by the way, i'm done with this subject. but michelle obama looks like an nfl linebacker: the face, the, the shoulders, and then you see her walking around in public, him, and it looks like he's got you know four or five rolls of quarters rolling around on there for tv viewers. let's roll some of that, since paul joseph Watson brought it up here today, uh. and then you've got all the other crazy footage of jones river saying, oh, she's a tranny now. now, whether that's true or not, we have a right as americans, when jones river says it, to bring it up, but every time i raise it, like once, to hear, it becomes a national news item. can we roll the footage of: uh, i saw it during the break. that was the whole point of being back. i'm not mad, but, like whoa, i was back there during the break and i saw the footage. no, not a jones rivers man. i saw the footage of, uh, uh, michael obama, michelle obama- walking outside whenever he's bouncing around in there. we'll go to rebroadcast then. all right, here you go. this is what i'm talking about right here, and there's a bunch of other footage, so, so, so, you've got that going on and you've got jones rivers. let's play jones rivers with audio, because we went here. let's go ahead and roll that audio. i think that the country will see the first, the united states will see the first gay president or the first woman president. we already have it with obama. so let's just calm down, got it. you know, michelle is a trend. i'm sorry, she's a. what a transgender we all know. oh my god. so again, that's not me saying that that's show rivers. but whenever i raise it, like once here, because a huge issue, they never show the clip. they say: i made it up. paul, let's put bookends on this. i'm tired talking about it, but you brought it up. well, we can segue. alex, you were talking about the talking about transgender issues. you were talking about the islam thing earlier, where they literally go out protest the school. 600 muslim parents withdraw their kids from the school because they're teaching lgbt to primary school children, which is up to the ages of about it's. you know it's five to ten, generally speaking children. that age should not be being taught any kind of sexuality whatsoever. that's the number one. so go for the muslims, good for them. but then how do they treat people who criticize lgbt who are not muslims? have an article here: man investigated by police for retweeting transgender limerick. he didn't even retweet it. from what i've learned, he liked the tweet. he didn't even write the tweet, he didn't even write the limerick, it wasn't even that offensive. they, uh, they called him up. they called up his employee and said: is this your guy? and it was some construction industry thing. so it's total intimidation of anybody that isn't a muslim. but the police literally said: we need to investigate this because if there are transgender employees at your work site, they are now under threat. they told this guy he needed to quote: change his thinking. but this guy got lucky, alex, because there was another case after that. like a week after that headline, you came home, arrested for calling transgender activist a man. this was a mother of two children, one of whom is disabled, i believe, and they just showed up in her kitchen, whisked her away, detained her processor, stole her laptop- and she hadn't got the laptop back like weeks later- for basically um harassing someone by making a comment on the internet in which she called somebody a man as a joke. so again, so we have pervert police, pedophile networks, obsessed with our kids, that police power now, yeah, so when the muslims come out and protest against lgbt being taught to, kids are being spoken about, they're listened to, obeyed, and they've withdrawn the program. they're going to try and bring it back, but good luck with that. when non non-muslims do it in the uk they literally have hate crime, thought crime police show up. oh, you want to be me, you want like. he has promethe in fire, he has zoos, lightning bolts, dude, you don't have it. it's. it's so pathetic. no, you shut down mark dies because he's more popular than you and he challenged you and you're a freaking coward. they're so paranoid about anyone not towing the line on whatever you want to call, whatever you want to talk about- transgenderism, social social justice, identity politics- but anyone who just refuses to comment on the news, just stays out of the controversies, is a massive threat, like someone like shane dawson, like he used to make comedy videos and stuff. now he makes videos about how iphones are spying on people and it's kind of somewhat tongue-in-cheek and a little bit immature in 20 years late and 20 years late. but the very fact he's talking about it with 20 million youtube subscribers, the very fact that you're on they're threatened by the fact that he's independent, yeah, and he may have been a crap ass before, but he has a soul and the minute he has the soul he goes. wait, i got kids. now this is, oh no, now we're gonna bully you. They're not bleeding heart idiots, They're at war with us, And so every historian, every analyst agrees that this will tear the country apart and this will weaponize everything, and this will move towards Republicans now starting to indict former presidents. And that's what happens in third world countries. That's the hallmark, one of the hallmarks, one of the earmarks: the signature of this. And they don't care because it will destroy the country, just like dissolving the borders and cutting off the pipelines and brainwashing the children that they're another sex and trying to put them on deadly puberty blockers that stunk their growth and screw them up for life and then have them cut body parts off, the deeper they get them into the sick cold. Oh, you're a victim. You're depressed because you didn't cut your penis off, You just took chemicals that made it shrivel up. Get rid of that thing. I mean, that's who we're dealing with And everybody is beginning to realize this. who's not part of the cult. but they've got the brainwash seminaries, the brainwash colleges, the brainwash government workers to a great extent, And sitting on top of it, the Justice Department and the FBI that is more than happy to persecute their political enemies while protecting criminals as the whole society collapses Meanwhile. And then I have clips of New York assembly, people of New Jersey Democrat leader of the press secretary of the governor of Arizona. I mean I've got dozens of these and videos all over the country of trans rallies that happen I guess every weekend now around the country in different cities, being asked: will you decry the woman or man that went and killed the three little children and the three adults in cold blood was trying to kill more, trying to kill a bunch of police. She shot them out the window as they came in and they say: nope, we won't. And just everywhere the left has been celebrating it and saying: this is what you get. So those nine year old children that she gunned down, that's what you get. And the Internet just flooded with- I mean, I'm not even looking for it, It's just everywhere- with trans people saying: we're oppressed, You're killing us, We're going to come kill you And they go. we have the highest suicide rate, We have the highest death rate because they're- almost half of them in studies- are sex workers and are in a really destructive lifestyle in a sex cult And they're killing themselves and they're being killed, not by us but by their pimps and all this. And then they point at conservatives thinking we want to run around and quote, hurt people in drag or we want to ban books. No, we're saying you can't have pedophilic books telling kids to get in the back of a van with a guy when they come to your backyard and then it shows the man having sex with a child and how wonderful it is. That's just one of the books. we've been caught in by these psychotics that are putting themselves in the net too. They really are demonic. They really want to hurt good people. They really want to hurt children. And I've got video after video- I played them some last week, but I watched like 15 of them this weekend- of Democrats going: got what you deserve. You guys tried to pass a law to persecute trans people in Tennessee and you saw what happened. Yeah, we saw you shoot at the cops and kill little kids and shoot them in the head and shoot them in the chest and shoot the teacher and shoot the principal Man. we saw it. She's a victim. He's a victim. I would definitely say so. They support grooming children. They are not pedophiles. Why would you say that Democrats? Democrats support even Joe Biden. the president himself supports children being sexualized and having transgender surgeries. Sexualizing children is what pedophiles do to children. Wow, OK, Wow. Jocelyn Elders, when she was being confirmed- and she wasn't confirmed- as the surgeon general in 1993, and you can read her writings everywhere- said we need to masturbate the boys and girls at six months of age and that the preschools need to be trained by law to get all the children. I mean you imagine you walk in your husband or wife is diddling the baby. they tell them: you are like a superhero. you could be anything you want. you could be a unicorn, you could be a bear, you could be a boy. I'm a girl, you could be a boy. we're going to have a drag queen come in here now and tell you that, okay, he's a convicted pedophile, but it's okay liberal. so this is such psychological abuse: to then get them in the system, confuse them, screw them up, get them on puberty blockers and then have them surgically remove their breasts, their penises and their testicles. here's the bow down article on info warscom, Colorado district keeping school sanctioned gender transition secret from parents. and then again the gender unicorn. they start teaching them in elementary school that they could be different. and then they ask: little boys, are you attracted, little boys? it's like, oh, we're all so loving, we're all so open, we want to put kids on drugs and sterilize them. oh, we're all so nice. i mean, that's what evil looks like, folks, that's what a cult looks like. and i grew up in dallas and i liked football but i got so sick of the dallas cowboys and the cult of the game and it's all everybody talked about and the flags everywhere, and it was just by the time i was, you know, older. i just hated it. but that wasn't a cult teaching kids how to cut their penises off or or not telling parents they're brainwashing kids illegally right under their noses and preemptively doing it all. but i was in new york and i was in the new york and preemptively doing it all. but i was in new york couple years ago- be on some podcast and it was gay pride month or whatever, and it was rainbow flags everywhere, people marching everywhere, uh, little kids, all this brain, and was just everywhere. it was just everywhere. this is the culture, this is what we get and it's being forced on us and it's mutilating children and destroying parental rights. trans are being killed, totally made up. bud light stands my partnership with trans activists- dylan mulvaney, despite backlash. so when a mosque gets shot, it's a hate crime to the left. when a synagogue gets shot, it's a hate crime to the left, but when a christian school gets killed, shot. little kids get killed. why do these people hate trans people? so there you go. it's all the corporations. they're literally at war with us, ladies and gentlemen. and kid rock shot up a 12-pack of it and got millions of views and everybody's celebrating it and i i get what he's doing, but how about you just throw the bud light in the trash? you're not being polite to the pronoun because it's respect. okay, forget about the disrespect facts, don't care about your feelings. it turns out that every chromosome, every cell in kaitlyn jenner's body is male, with the exception of some of his sperm cells. you cut that out now or you'll go home in an ambulance. yeah, that seems mildly inappropriate for a political discussion. there's all these calls here for the international day of rage of the trans people- men that think they're women and women that think they're men- out with sandwich boards with images of rifles saying trans rights or else, and the main trans resistance movement came out and said the shooter's a victim to, you made him do it when it's a her. one of the things that we saw during the midterm elections is that people don't want their freedoms to be taken. they want us to fight for their freedoms, and so it is shameful, it is disturbing and our hearts go out to those, the trans community, as they are under attack right now in the fight for human rights. we must affirm that trans rights are human rights. hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. guys, this guy just shot the old guy right down on the ground. there is still a lot that we don't know about monday's horrific and deadly mass shooting at a nashville christian school. but after police said the suspect was transgender, one thing is clear: tennessee's already under siege transgender community is terrified. one advocate told nbc news we are already fearing for our lives. now it's even worse. the right-wing moral panic over transgender people living their lives or seeking medical care or simply existing obviously predates the nashville massacre, but some on the right are linking the tragedy to their raging nationwide crusade against transgender people in ways that are just dangerous and, frankly, evil. three adults. two nine-year-olds and one about to turn nine had been shot dead. moreover, when we advance equal equality and racial justice, we're and invest in young people, protect the lgbtq plus uh individuals. our societies are not only fair, but they're stronger. the avaldi shooter was into that too. aberdeen shooter identifies as trans. nashville shooter identified as trans. confused, freaked out, whacked out. people on major, major, major hormones. someone who identifies as transgender. however, that's not a problem in their body, gender identity, all identities. they're in our thoughts, thoughts and feelings. those are not hardwired, they develop and they may be factually wrong or factually correct. the definition of a delusion is a fixed, false belief. a lot of these people that identify as non-binary or transgender or high functioning autist- you'll see now in the media they're talking about aubrey hale- is a high functioning autist. so that is the crux of this problem is that we're basically enabling people that are actually mentally challenged. it's even stronger than gender dysphoria. they're actually suffering from autism and that is why this society is getting so bad, because the increased rate of autism is going to only increase the rate of transgenderism. it's very sad, but they're howling, they're, they're barking at the moon, they're chirping and they're just rolling them in like: here's where your love, here's where you're accepted. here's some fat men dressed like getting a clown, many of them convicted pedophiles, and this is just the army of evil rolling forward. the most banned man in america, alex jones. i want you all to know something: alex jones was right. i i tried to bring this up with you last week. you kind of stepped over it, and so did uh allen dershowitz, and i don't know why, uh. but obviously the next move- and i've now seen their usual fbi suspects all over tv saying the right wing are going to kill people, they're going to blow stuff up, they're going to shoot people, they're going to attack federal buildings. it's imminent and, knowing the whole history of oklahoma city and the same crew that ran that is running things today, the next car, the only way they pull their bacon out of the fire on this. it's all turned against them, but i think they knew that, though that was a no-brainer- is the false flag, and so i'm calling for extreme peace, extreme discretion and no offensive violence. obviously defend yourself if you're attacked, and i just think we need to get that message out, because they're even celebrating the transgender lady man that killed those kids. now i've got a bunch of clips here, so the left is beyond craze. they're mad dog and i don't know how we thread the needle and protect ourselves, save the republic, and then deal with the fact that they're going to stage violence. i mean, that's obviously the next move. i don't see what other move there could be to legitimize the further crackdown of this whole panopticonic system. take action now. at info war storecom, i intend to take the info wars armored truck out, or the info wars tank, as it's so lovingly called. you came through yesterday and shopped at info war storecom, so i'm gonna be able to take the truck out, so leading a frontal assault on the lies of the new world order. it's alex jones. so, after being suppressed for almost a year by the us department of health and human services, a new report has been released which uses dozens of studies to prove that fluoride consumption lowers the iq of children. internal emails show that the report was blocked by the transgender assistant health secretary, rachel levine, and concealed from public since may of 2022. as reported by capital in maine on march 14th in an article titled health officials delayed report linking fluoride to brain harm. quote: last may, the national toxicology program was set to release its eagerly awaited report into the cognitive and neurodevelopmental impacts on humans from fluoride exposure. it was to review studies which link fluoridated water to cognitive harm in children. but, quote: before the ntp could release the report, they were blocked, said linda burn bomb, ntp director, until 2019. apparently, the us department of health and human services hid the report after criticism from organizations that advocate water fluoridation, such as the american dental association, who casted doubt on the report. in february of 2022, the american dental association emailed rachel levine and others asking the ntp to exclude or carefully consider how to characterize any lingering neurotoxin claims from the report because it might, quote- undermine national, state and local efforts to expand community water fluoridation. or if i go to a comedy bit and i'm pro-trans kids, because now they don't know what to do, because now if i'm pro-trans kids, then they must be anti-trans kids. but what? that's not what they're taught. that's why it's so easy to break these people down and they go into an absolute mental breakdown and conniption fit. i've documented many this, uh, many, many times this, with the crew. alex stein as well, who's joining me in 10 minutes, can tell you all about it and his recent sights and sounds and scenes dealing with these crazy trans people, um, and then also outside of trump tower in new york. so that's all coming up. but again, folks remember if you were anticipating the fun t-shirt with donald trump's mugshot on it, but oh, you thought we're going to be let down. there's no mugshot. think again. yeah, nobody's talking about biden, because he's irrelevant. well, let's put on our tinfoil hats. we are on info wars. let's go full conspiracy mode. now we have the trans, put it on. we have the transgender shooter is dominating the news. now we have transgender awareness week, where basically all of the people that are just so pro progressivism and so pro social justice, all the all, everything they stand for, became a school shooter, like literally the whole embodiment of the trans movement, a person that the media can't even label correctly. they don't know whether to call them their boy name or their girl name, but this is like who they love, the trans community- and they go and they kill six people, they kill three kids, they kill three adults in a school and they want to try to take away your guns because of that. so that's dominating the news and it's making everybody on the right look correct and we say, oh, there's a serious mental health issue with a lot of these transgender people. so as soon as all that blows up, conveniently, they- even though, even though right before they announced that they were going to indict trump, they said that they were weren't going to reconvene for a month and that it's probably going to be a month later. so i just think it's very unusual timing. and, just like you said, nobody's talking about joe biden. all we're talking about is donald trump. that's why it's important for us to understand what happened to Charlie guard, so we make sure that never gets ratified here, so that the parents can express an opinion, but the decisions will be made by others, and so now they're deciding that he's not going to be allowed to go home, even though the parents have offered to pay for it. they would like to let their child die with them at home. they said no, and we're gonna take a look at the Bundy standoff. I was there and the first person has been sentenced to 68 years. I'm gonna tell you what an amazing miscarriage of justice and how they are rigging the judicial situation there- unbelievable even for me, and I'm very it's hard to tell it- to show me something that makes me think that the government is even crazier than it is. speaking with his military staff, president Trump has banned transgenders from military, citing disruptions in the service, such as structural accommodations and increased costs, as the primary reasons. his decision stems from a long-standing controversy over whether the military should provide insurance for soldiers to transition from one gender to another. in other news, president Trump also publicly blasted his attorney general, Jeff sessions, for not replacing acting FBI director Andrew McCabe, who's at the center controversy after his wife received 700,000 for her political campaign from Hillary Clinton. McCabe was handling the FBI investigation into Clinton. the president also blasted sessions on Tuesday for taking- quote- a very weak position on Hillary Clinton crimes. the free market hasn't been tried in our lifetimes. going back to World War two, when they instituted third-party health insurance and said that only corporations could get a deduction, not individuals. that is where this all began. I want to take a real quick look, though, before I get into some of the other issues that are happening in Washington. I want to take a look at how the GOP is. are now the tip of the spear, coming after Donald Trump on the transgender ban. but I also want to talk about what's going on in the Nevada standoff trial, what happened at Bunkerville? I was there reporting and I've got to tell you this is something I feel very, very strongly about, and you will not believe what the judge is doing to this trial. it surprises even me, and very few people have a lower opinion of the government than I do. stay with us to manufacture the most comfortable body armor on the market, and we've succeeded with the release of our CQB technology. this is an outrage. you need to find out what's going on. we're going to talk to people about this in a later day. stay tuned and fours will be right back on the march. the Empire's on the run, Alex Jones and the GCN radio network. after speaking with his military staff, president Trump has banned transgenders from military, citing disruptions in the service, such as structural accommodations and increased costs, as the primary reasons. its decision stems from a long-standing controversy over whether the military should provide insurance for soldiers to transition from one gender to another. in other news, president Trump also publicly blasted his attorney general, Jeff sessions, for not replacing acting FBI director Andrew McCabe, who's at the center controversy. after his wife received 700,000 for her political campaign from Hillary Clinton, McCabe was handling the FBI investigation into Clinton. the president also blasted sessions on Tuesday for taking- quote- a very weak position on Hillary Clinton crimes. welcome back to the Alex Jones show. on this Thursday, July 27th 2017. we had Alex Jones is gonna be joining us in just a moment to talk about Al Gore's cryptic comments on the late, late show last night. so yet another example of somebody saying: hey, in the next few months, something's gonna happen. you better get ready for something that's going to happen, so we're gonna play that clip. Alex is gonna break that down for you. I thought it was kind of interesting that the storm that has been triggered- as the hill points out, Trump triggers a storm with the transgender ban. the people who are coming after him- apparently the most- are conservatives. what a surprise. the same GOP, the duplicitous GOP, that said things like we're gonna get rid of Obamacare. I remember when they said we're gonna get rid of the Department of Education, right after Jimmy Carter did it. so they campaign on these things to get elected for them, but they want the government controlling your life. we had Eric Cantor yesterday saying: well, you got a lot of anger out there, you're gonna use that to get elected. and that's precisely what they did. now they have an opportunity to simply repeal it, to start enacting market reforms that would actually make health care more affordable, but they don't do it. and so now you've got the conservatives. a CNN's headline says conservatives lobbied the White House for a transgender policy, but the total ban wasn't what they asked for. they're very concerned about it and, as they say, it's a growing GOP backlash. they say it's a political miscalculation. well, who was it that made the political calculation? the Washington Post quotes John McCain and listen to the way the Washington Post describes John McCain: war hero. please support the broadcast, support yourself and help fund the info war in the face of this unprecedented assault, because we're having victory. info war. store dot com in four's life dot com or triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine. thanks for your support. the. after speaking with his military staff, president Trump has banned transgenders from the military, citing disruptions in the service, such as structural accommodations and increased costs, as the primary reasons. its decision stems from a long-standing controversy over whether the military should provide insurance for soldiers to transition from one gender to another. in other news, president Trump also publicly blasted his attorney general, Jeff sessions, for not replacing acting FBI director Andrew McCabe, who's at the center controversy after his wife received 700,000 for her political campaign from Hillary Clinton. McCabe was handling the FBI investigation into Clinton. the president also blasted sessions on Tuesday for taking- quote- a very weak position on Hillary Clinton crimes. let's talk about that straight ahead. but thank god we got our second amendment. folks, this isn't going to be like what happened, the poor serfs, but the end of czarist Russia, because the very same globalist players, the very same new world order communists, the very same devil worship fresh thinks. they're gonna have their way with us and they're not. the march, the empires on the run, Alex Jones and the GCN radio network. after speaking with his military staff, president trump has banned transgenders from military, citing disruptions in the service, such as structural accommodations and increased costs, as the primary reasons. its decision stems from a long-standing controversy over whether the military should provide insurance for soldiers to transition from one gender to another. in other news, president trump also publicly blasted his attorney general, Jeff sessions, for not replacing acting FBI director Andrew McCabe, who's at the center controversy after his wife received 700,000 for her political campaign from Hillary Clinton. the cable is handling the FBI investigation into Clinton. the president also blasted sessions on Tuesday for taking- quote- a very weak position on Hillary Clinton crimes. and where are the men in this country? I mean we, they're openly organizing his overthrow and people are going. well, we better let them take over. no, they're illegitimate, they're the criminals. I mean, this is such a no-brainer Leigh Ann McAdoo. well, this is why I don't really agree with tweeting out this stuff about the trans band, because he he mentions that transgenders in the military are a distraction. well, if they weren't a distraction before, it's definitely a huge distraction now. because now the left and the media and all of the celebrities are just talking about this trans band and riling up their base even more. at the same time, we have all of these majorly important stories breaking that the media should be forced to cover. well, now they have an excuse to not cover it. thank you so much. look forward to speaking to you soon. thanks, Alex, my guy. thank you, David Knight. will honcho the big interview as the former reality TV show host break out of the matrix straight ahead? after speaking with his military staff, president Trump has banned transgenders from the military, citing disruptions in the service, such as structural accommodations and increased costs, as the primary reasons. his decision stems from a long-standing controversy over whether the military should provide insurance for soldiers to transition from one gender to another. in other news, president Trump also publicly blasted his attorney general, Jeff sessions, for not replacing acting FBI director Andrew McCabe, who's at the center controversy after his wife received 700,000 for her political campaign from Hillary Clinton. the cable is handling the FBI investigation into Clinton. the president also blasted sessions on Tuesday for taking- quote- a very weak position on Hillary Clinton crimes. they're the guys that lied about WMDs in Iraq. they're the guys that lied and said Obamacare was free. you know, they're the people that have bodyguards but don't want us people to own guns. so really they jumped the shark in a big way, and so I think it's destiny, as you said, that you guys said you were Christian and that actually you'll spoke out of the media that demonize you, destroy you, try to destroy you, but who knows where you would have been if you'd stayed in your life. you're listening to Alex Jones and he's talking to a couple of reality stars from the Hill about the fakeness of reality TV will be right back the Empire's on the run, Alex Jones and the GCN radio network. after speaking with his military staff, President Trump has banned transgenders from military, citing disruptions in the service, such as structural accommodations and increased costs, as the primary reasons. his decision stems from a long-standing controversy over whether the military should provide insurance for soldiers to transition from one gender to another. in other news, president Trump also publicly blasted his attorney general, Jeff sessions, for not replacing acting FBI director Andrew McCabe, who's at the center controversy after his wife received 700,000 for her political campaign from Hillary Clinton. the cable is handling the FBI investigation into Clinton. the president also blasted sessions on Tuesday for taking- quote- a very weak position on Hillary Clinton crimes. he worked on her 2008 campaign. he worked for the Clinton Foundation, the Clinton Global Initiative, the Clinton Library. there's a lot of corruption going on here, folks, and when we see these people blackmailing, having access to the communications of the foreign committee, foreign affairs committee, having access to all these Democrats, the question is, who were they blackmailing? they were sending this information off-site. we'll have more information about this tonight on the FO wars nightly news, Paul Joseph Watson coming up after speaking with his military staff. president Trump has banned transgenders from the military, citing disruptions in the service, such as structural accommodations and increased costs, as the primary reasons. his decision stems from a long-standing controversy over whether the military should provide insurance for soldiers to transition from one gender to another. in other news, president Trump also publicly blasted his attorney general, Jeff sessions, for not replacing acting FBI director Andrew McCabe, who was at the center of controversy after his wife received 700,000 for her political campaign from Hillary Clinton. the cable is handling the FBI investigation into Clinton. the president also blasted sessions on Tuesday for taking- quote- a very weak position on Hillary Clinton crimes. international women's day means a man pretending to be a woman, and then they take it next level with stuff like this from vice. is it possible to be straight and want to have sex with a guy. I mean, I I'm a straight man but I fancy my guy friend. what's happening- and you gotta understand this whole thing- is really just weird. straight liberal men- or, well, gay liberal men, just confused in their own sexuality. but really the argument they're trying to make- and you see this popping up all over now- is that if you're a man and you won't have sex with a trans woman, then you're a homophobe or a transphobe. I don't really get it, but that's what they're really trying to say. so let me give you the gruesome details of what they're telling you. so you may not want to listen to this, but I'm just going to tell you- and I'm sorry to do this to you, but this is what it is. the liberals, the radical American left, believe that if a man slices up his penis and genitalia and then folds it into a wound, a self inflicted whole in their body- literally chopping up, slicing up their penis and turning it into a hole in their body- and if you don't want to have sex with that, as a man, you're a transphobe. let me make something perfectly clear: if you're a man that doesn't want to stick your penis in another man's chopped up, diced up penis hole. that does not make you a transphobe or a homophobe or anything else. quite frankly, that makes you sane right now. I'm not talking to the viewers and listeners that have gone to info or storecom and gotten the great products that enrich your life, that empower your immune system in your body and keep us on air. I am humbly had in hand. so again, please take action. go to infowarstorecom today and I thank you. Thanks for watching Upfrontal Assault on the Lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones. What do you mean? you don't want to have sex with my diced up penis hole shoved into my body? you bigot? it's ma'am. that a little too much. that's what it is, okay. defense mechanism is what happens when you have a mental disability and you can't deal with the world in a rational way, and these people belong in mental institutions. but they're on television, they're in government and they're destroying our country. we now live in an open air mental institution. it's called the United States and then, of course, just everything we're watching with the open grooming, sexual grooming of children, now like this. this is so sick. lawsuit alleges New York teacher forced fifth grader to become transgender, causing suicidal thoughts. a New York teacher forced a prepubescent girl to become transgender without her parents knowledge and now the child was contemplating suicide. a lawsuit filed against Brookhaven Coswogue school district alleges teacher Deborah Rosenquist manipulated a nine-year-old female student at Terryville road elementary school into becoming transgender by calling her Leo and using male pronouns to address her during the twenty twenty one, twenty two school year. I just can't even believe we're dealing with this. how deranged is that, how evil is that, how sick, how psychotic. and you know that's not the only case. Southern California teacher arrested for secretly recording students in all gender bathroom. we're going to market it on the internet. we're going to market it on the streets too. okay, we can't do that anymore. it's showing what our real intentions are, and we're getting shut down. so now they want to go underground, but all that's caused is these events to be even worse. so when I tell you that we have grown men dressing up like women in sexual outfits, gimp outfits, leather daddy outfits, fake penises for toddlers and infants, you wouldn't even believe me. I'm going to show you the videos of this on the other side, and it's new videos of this exact thing now, every day. ladies and gentlemen, info wars has proven itself in the biggest effect out there against those tires, and we fund our operation. and we fund our operation. Watch your life and keep us on air. So here you go, this is new video. You're saying you covered this video yesterday. That was a separate video from a separate event. But no, we did cover the video yesterday of- I don't even know what they call it. I forget what they call it- Strip tees for children, strip tees for toddlers, and they market it as a sexual event for kids under two years old. And it's grown men in thongs and leather gimp suits that you see on the screen doing sex teases for infants with fake penises and fake breasts, and the whole thing. That was yesterday. So here's the new one today. Like you can't even properly respond and discipline what's going on from this video before the next one comes out. And so here it is: drag queen sexy time for kids and infants. Oh, it's just drag queen: story time for kids. They've grown men that want to dress as women and read to children. And how quickly that became drag queen, sex stripper, sex tease for kids. Am I not describing what you're seeing on the screen accurately here? But you know, maybe that's why they love Zalinsky so much. Put the b-roll of clip 19 on the screen And I was thinking about doing a whole push, because there's so much of this Zalinsky content out there of him doing porn jokes and doing penis jokes And it's like that was his whole bit. You know he was a TV comedian before he became the president And his main bit was gay jokes and penis jokes and flashing his genitalia for the audience on television. That was his main joke. Now he's the president. Maybe that's why they like Zalinsky so much. So I was thinking maybe we should just find it, because there's dozens of these. as people always have this idea of what a police officer should look like. uh yeah, you're dealing with violent criminals. you should be pretty muscle-bound, pretty big, pretty healthy. pc hooper is quoted as saying, likely in reference to historic minimum height requirements for officers now abolished. well, i assure you, maybe they'll have midgets taking on six foot five, but violent criminals next, who knows? maybe they'll have, you know, transgender individuals with arms like pipe cleaners taking down terrorists in central london. i don't know if it's for diversity, and maybe it's a good thing, she said. i assure you, even as a five foot five woman, i can hold my own big doubt. this is like in america when those fire departments started lowering the standards for entry. so you're burning to death in a high-rise building and somebody who hasn't even completed the physical assault course is coming to save you. now they're hiring five foot five women to take on violent criminals. again because they lowered the standards of training so she can come out and say: well, i passed the training. yeah, because it's easy. that's only going to embolden criminals. more big shock that our crime rate is now an all-time record high in the us- or in fact, i think this is in canada. girls basketball team withdraws from state tournament in protest against transgender player who dominates games. this is the girls basketball team from the vermont division for state tournament, withdrawn from it in protest against a transgender player who's routinely been dominating games. well, what a surprise. a biological male with better physical attributes is absolutely crushing the competition and these again relatively spindly weak females in comparison aren't happy about it. after finding out their opponents, the long trail school mountain lions had a biological male on their team. the mid vermont christian school eagles fortified forfeited their playoff game. we believe playing against an opponent with a biological male jeopardizes the fairness of the game and the safety of our players. and then they cite write-ups of reviews of these basketball games where this individual is absolutely crushing it. someone came out and spoke out against this. he said: bone mass, lean mass, cardiac output, strength capacity, work capacity, potential- all heavily advantage males. now, of course, they're transphobic for complaining about it. meanwhile, transgender athlete wins four female running competitions in a row. transgender athlete who now identifies as a woman has won four different female running competition so far this year alone, after smashing a women's 5000 meter record last year. this is tiffany newell, and basically every single tournament he has entered since the start of january this year he's won at a canter. well, now the international consortium on women's sport, a group demanding the protection of female competitions, another transphobic hate unit, reacted to the news by asserting it was blatant example of sex discrimination. and again i go for all the examples of this individual absolutely dominating, running easily to victory in all the competitions that he's entered. redux reports: despite protests from trans activists, studies have consistently affirmed that trans identify male athletes retain a significant edge over their female counterparts, even after starting hormone therapy. now, on the subject of transgenderism and pushing the message, her she's has launched a new transgender themed chocolate bar, promoted by a biological male. to celebrate international women's day, this video is called who's got the meme. let's roll it. to celebrate international women's day, which is next week, her she's has launched a bold, daring new promo campaign, again for international women's week, by prominently featuring someone who was born a biological male. hashtag: her for she see the women. i don't know. maybe, but when you target market continually increases year by year thanks to people being born that way and having nothing to do with insidious social engineering at all, who's to say it won't pay off? i mean, at the very least for her she's. it'll distract from the fact that it tastes like sick. now again, i referenced the gallup poll in that video. again, lgbt people constantly claim: no, they're born that way, they're born gay, they're born transgender. it's an innate thing. it has nothing whatsoever to do with indoctrination, social engineering, activist doctors- in the case of transgender experiments and surgery. well, of course, we find out that generation z- 19.7 of them- now identify as lgbt, and the numbers amongst millennials have also basically doubled over the course of the last eight years, with now 11.2 percent of millennials in america identifying as lgbt. what could have caused that? a massive cultural indoctrination, social engineering campaign? or were they just born that way? right, bar reports won't fail her. she's hit with backlash, boycott polls after casting transgender activists in international women's day promo. get woke, go broke. i don't know. they've got massive amounts of free advertising as a result of the controversy that they've deliberately generated over this. people are upset about it, people calling for a boycott. Target becomes the latest target of anti-woke boycott as it sells satanist, pride, LGBTQ plus products for kids. Folks, this is getting out of control. It's not just putting girls' clothes in the boys' aisle. It's not just putting, like an, I'm gay with a rainbow flag shirt in the boys' aisle. It's going to dark, sordid places. you can't even imagine Target under fire for selling clothing made by creepy, satanic transgender designer that promotes drugs and violence. Yes, folks, that's how bad it's gotten. They do studies where kids end up killing themselves. Now there's multiple threads on this currently on Twitter, If you want to find them. Scarlett Johnson has one, Aristos Revenge has one, And you can see. And they're running entrapment schemes against you And they're censoring you and imprisoning you. Ah yes, and you know the final stage of this. So here it is. Tell me, does this woman belong in the Nebraska State Senate or does she belong in a mental institution? Here is Michaela Kavanaugh supporting trans surgery for minors. Trans people, trans people belong here. We need trans people. we love trans people. Trans people belong here. We need trans people. we love trans people. Trans people belong here. We need trans people. we love trans people. Trans people belong here. We need trans people. we love trans people. Trans people belong here. We need trans people. we love trans people. Trans people belong here. We need trans people. we love trans people. Trans people belong here. We need trans people. we love trans people. Trans people belong here. We need trans people. we love trans people. You matter, You matter And I am fighting for you And I will not stop. I will not stop today, I will not stop tomorrow. You are loved. You matter. You belong here, Mental institution or Nebraska State Senate? Where does Michaela Cavan all belong? Now? let's put aside our own politics here for a second and think about this as an issue. If you really believe that there's some sort of discrimination or hatred or bigotry against trans people, and you really believe that, okay, okay, but where does that rank on the issues that we're facing in this country? How many people are affected by transphobia? You'd be tough to find one, wouldn't you? How many people are affected by our gas prices going up, our energy prices going up, the grocery bill going up, property taxes going up? Oh well, gee, that's just about everybody, isn't it? But no, they want to get up there and rant about trans people because they think it's some sort of a virtue signal cause. Even if you do believe that's a big issue, it's like not even in the top thousand issues this country is facing. But you know, I think about this. I think about this because we actually have a growing trans and gay population here in Austin. I'm not saying that these things coincide with one another, but you know, Austin, when I moved here for multiple years straight, was the number one city to move to and live in. We're now at number 40.. I'm not saying that has something to do with the trans community moving in here or the gay community moving in here. I just think it's more about just the left-wing ideology taking over. the Democrat Party taking over is what takes it from number one to number 40 in less than five years, And you know, seeing trans people everywhere or having a new blossoming gay strip downtown is just kind of a sign of that. Now I'm not really bothered by it. I like having fun. I've got a bit of a degenerate side to me. I like to drink too much- probably Not as much anymore, but when I was younger- And so I don't care. that's totally not true. And then they share it out to the trans community here as an effort to put a target on my back. And so now should I be concerned if I go out and I'm having somebody that's behind the counter or in the kitchen making my meal that might be a trans person? I mean, it's already going on with leftists and liberals. But see, the issue here gets conflated. I'm not against trans people, I'm not against cross-dressers, I'm not against drag queens. I'm against propagandizing children into mutilating their bodies. That's what I'm against. I'm against propagandizing children and grooming them sexually. That's my issue. But see, they conflate it and they take it out of context and they say: you hate trans people, you're against trans. No, leave the kids alone. Again back to the story. Why have you had a 1,300% increase in children searching: am I gay, am I trans? You have confused an entire generation of children. Farage, on Twitter, posted this. He said: what if there was an advert saying blacks need not apply? There'd be massive outrage. And again, despite the fact that white British people are indeed a minority- majority minority, at least in these big UK cities- they are still being discriminated against. And it's all legal, It's all lawful, as I just said, under the 2010 Equalities Act. Now I'm going to get into the latest transgender propaganda news and all the fun and goodies that the alphabet people are bringing us. But first let's touch on a bit of good news, because I've got this clip, which some of you will have seen, some of you won't have seen, of Elon Musk talking to an NBC journalist, And it ties into this article. Poll shows how radically different Americans' opinions are from liberal corporate media narratives. Again, we have this wall of the censorship industrial complex. We have the wall of fact checkers, legacy media outlets trying to push one narrative, trying to monster vilify anyone who disagrees with that narrative and trying to portray them as a tiny extremist minority fringe, Turns out that's complete BS. Other products feature skeletons draped in pride and trans colors, gay cult stuff. Again, it literally says: we're part of a gay cult And this is what Target has chosen to endorse and sell in its stores. Again, Target- the same company that is busy pulling some of its stores out of major cities because they keep being looted over and over again- now choosing to go down the Bud Light Dylan Avery route and risking another potential massive, successful boycott. So good luck with that. Meanwhile- this came out last week and most people didn't even see it- Transgender mass shooter also targeted Cathedral. During a killing spree, transgender mass shooter Audrey Hale also targeted a neo-Gothic cathedral attached to the Covenant school. This came out as a result of an article written by a family member of one of the victims, who revealed this detail, which hadn't so far been revealed in news. media reports that the killer targeted a cathedral, shot out some stained glass windows, And then it was reported again last week that this manifesto, of course whenever there's a manifesto online from a white shooter, or indeed an obscure profile on a Russian social media website- that fits in with the exact narrative that the regime wants to push. that was very convenient, wasn't it last week? Well, it's released within 24 hours. So World War III alert. Russia threatens nuclear war and political assassinations in response to a Kremlin drone attack. Also, over 50 percent of Americans believe their money is not safe in the banks. As experts warn, the system faces total collapse. We're going to be laying all of that out as well. today We have the transgender cult going crazy and attacking different facilities and capitals around the country, including yesterday. We have footage of that. We're also going to be looking at store shutdowns across the country in blue cities, where the Walmarts, the Targets, the Whole Foods, the Walgreens, the Nordstroms are all closing, saying that, basically, blue cities are unlivable, crime-ridden hellholes. We have a lot of video of that Also. it finally happened And every time it does, the media makes it the biggest story on earth. But the point is they're not being banned. We're saying don't give them to elementary and middle school students. I mean it literally describes- he was showing images from the book because, I'll be honest, I didn't read the whole book. I opened it, looked at it, I looked at it for about two minutes, flipped through it fast and it was so upsetting to me that they're doing this to children that this had an AISD middle school sticker on the spine that one of our crew's children goes there and they went to the library and found it. It's in all the major libraries in the country, most of them Leftist controlled areas, and I'll be honest, I flipped through it over about a minute and a half and just couldn't believe it and just read the excerpts online of what's in the book. Well, on Crowder's show yesterday he went ahead and showed all the images And I thought: you know what people need to see this Plus- this is why it was better Crowder blurted out- but it shows the child on his knees with the adult sticking his penis in his mouth. It shows the adult man with the 10-year-old raping him. I mean, come on, people, This is just. and Chelsea Clinton is promoting this. She's a damn monster. We have this video. Protester shouts: you mutilated your son at former NBA star Dwayne Wade following 15-year-old son's gender transition. We have it. Former Miami Heat NBA star, Dwayne Wade was booed and criticized over 15-year-old son's gender transition as he left a basketball game in New York City Sunday night. All I can say is good job. Cutting your son's penis off is not a good thing. Here it is. Protester shouts: you mutilated your son at former NBA star Dwayne Wade. There you go. Now let's move on to this. Here's another clip: Watch as audience cheers high school student as she confronts school board on trans insanity. We are affirming the mental confusion of a boy and putting the safety of women in jeopardy by allowing mentally confused men to use women's spaces. Let's go ahead and roll that clip for the viewers. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, and only ladies and gentlemen, it is and shall always be. I am an 18-year-old high school student and wanted to take this time to bring to your attention the current issue with biological men claiming they are women and, in turn, truly believing that they are entitled to use women's spaces. There was an incident within our district that occurred recently regarding a transgender woman, who really is a biological man, having an altercation with a young woman at MLK High School. I was infuriating when I had seen the video on social media, but what was detrimental to this is the fact that this man is and has been using the women's restroom and locker room. Firstly, the question we must address is: why are we affirming the mental confusion of this boy and putting the safety of women in jeopardy by allowing mentally confused men to use the women's spaces. Of course, any male who claims he is a woman will accept it. but what about the women? That's what you just heard. Now you're not supposed to discriminate for a better neighborhood or a better school that has your values. That's all bad. Give up your values, But they're making themselves God. He's saying there might be a good reason for this. See, it's good, And it's their values of transgenderism and pedophilia and a post-human world. He says the future is not human. Play the clip again from the start. Now, in the coming years, in the coming decades, we will face individual discrimination and it might actually be based on a good assessment of who you are. I mean, if AT&T, if the algorithms and the big data algorithms of AT&T, they follow you around, they look up your Facebook profile, your DNA, your records from kindergarten until today, they will be able to figure out quite accurately who you are. What's wrong with you? You're all going to die, Every single one of you. Where are my chicken nuggets? AOC says: that's OK, I have a terrorist comes in. You know what I mean. Like these tranny terrorists, They're just gay. Right, A tranny terrorist comes. It's the same thing, Right? Hey guys, Isn't that the same thing that happened with the so-called trans person? But the tranny terrorist at the Christian school murdered three little Christian kids and three Christian educators. It's the same thing. It's literally the same thing. Oh, no, no, no, no, no. They blame the individual that should be responsible, or they don't blame the individual that should be responsible and they blame the victims. Right, Everyone on the train is wrong. It's justifiable because, no, no, no. You didn't accept what were all the Wotard saying on on TikTok, If the parents got what they deserve? because if you accepted trans people's identities, well, maybe you would still have your kids. AOC saying the same thing: Well, if you don't feed homeless people, they're just going to start killing you And that's OK because they're hungry and houseless. Of course she's going to say that. Why wouldn't she? She loves violence. It's like this mob mentality, but like in a way, where you're protecting your own, You're watching each other's backs like someone wants to get out of line. Okay, You're in New York, You get out of line. Someone sees it in the streets, The people are going to take care of you. You know what I'm saying. You guys know exactly what I'm talking about. Oh, New York has been known for this stuff, but no, not anymore, Not anymore, Not any longer, because this is a cucked out society, a beta society, where you cannot be like that anymore, especially if it's a black person, especially, you guys want to know how this would have been like the ultimate, like golden ticket, the absolute over shield, invincibility shield for these people, If Jordan was a, a so-called trans woman, if he identified as a woman. Ooh, this, this, that's like. that's like George Floyd 2.0 with, like you know, when Mario eats, he eats the mushroom and grows like, like dude. that's like the ultimate power upgrade for these people, because the ones that are ultimately protected are the mentally perverted men that walk around masquerading as women. And, of course, people are going to act, people are on edge. We defund the police, make it look like there's going to be total anarchy. So now we have a new regime. this guys- what I'm talking about- may not come to full fruition like maybe 10 or 15 years from now, because it's happening now and it kind of just started in 2020, where they went overdrive BLM, defund the police and they started hiring all these diversity hires that have no morality, that think everyone's a racist, and they just do what the regime tells them to do. they don't question anything. Imagine this in 20 years, right, If they actually just go forward with their plans and no one stops them and the good guys and the good women just all leave. So when you finally decide to have another lockdown, when you finally decide to implement your tyranny, when you finally decide to protect the pedophiles and the groomers and you decide to deploy police, FBI, you name it, the military right, Martial law, you decide to deploy these people to go after individuals, parents that may not agree with so-called gender ideology, transgender, this homosexual that, oh well, they're a domestic terrorist. so have police go to their house, knock on their door, break down their door, take their children from them and send them into a gulag or concentration camp. So what the Nazis did with the SS: you got a bunch of people that had no conscience, that were willing to do evil things. That's how you install, that's what defund the police is. You take out the good guys, put in the bad guys to do your evil bidding to uphold the police state, the new world order, and to start attacking and dismantling everyone else in society that stands in your way. man, Unreal, dude, Absolutely unreal. And yes, this organization is backed by Planned Parenthood. In October 2022, the Rainbow Room received a grant, a state grant, of $630,000 to expand the reach of the Rainbow Room within Doylestown, Pennsylvania, according to a lawmaker's press release. So they're spending hundreds of thousands of dollars to pump into the Rainbow Room. Yeah, little kid, Come into the Rainbow Room. Yeah, Come, sit on the lap of a tranny. You wanna sit on a grown man's boner. Little 10-year-old, come here, Come to the Rainbow Room where you can get touched And it's safe Cause. if it's consensual, it's okay. If you say it's okay, little kid, that I can touch you with my penis, we're all good. And also just some extra insurance, An insurance policy. I'm a homosexual, so you can't say anything against me. This is so insane. National Masturbation Month: 630K To indoctrinate your children with their pedophilia. Now, folks, I have to tell you here, this is all really confusing to me, and I'm not trying to make a joke, I'm being serious and it's meant to be that way. But it's so nonsensical, it's so confusing, it's straight up clown world behavior here. And so my best understanding- because I read the bill or the executive order, rather I read the EO and I read the story- and it still makes no sense to me. Of course not. You can be women, women can be men, you can be a man, woman, man, child, bear, pig. So it's just total insanity: Kids having multiple transgender surgeries or reverse surgeries. So my understanding is basically that Biden wants to make it illegal to have what they call conversion therapy. And again, I'm not trying to be funny here. None of this makes any sense. folks. You can go read the executive order, You can read the story in the post millennial. I mean, it just scrambles your brain And that's the whole point. Imagine what it's going to do to children. But my best understanding is that Biden is making it illegal to have therapies or interventions that would stop a child from having transgender surgery. Or like if a child says hey, you know, a five-year-old says hey, it's a girl, and says, oh, I'm a boy, I'm a boy, I'm a top surgery, And it becomes a serious psychological problem. with this mental disorder, You can take them to conversion therapy, just so that they understand: no, you're a girl, That's what you are, Or vice versa, whatever the case is, So that's basically so. Biden is making it illegal. or even with gay like- oh, gay, homosexual- conversion therapy, like you know, get you straight again. It might as well be in another language, because it is: There's men and there's women and that's it. They start throwing all these other things in there so it gets confusing. But this is from the post-millennial story. I quote directly and they're quoting from the bill or the executive order. Women told parents across America to affirm their children, meaning that, should a child claim to be what they are not, parents should nod affirmatively and sign them up for irreverable courses of medical treatment that will prevent them from living a full life. So, in other words, force your kid to be transgender if they even, like a girl, wears a basketball jersey or something. This new order states that so-called conversion therapy must be banned across the country. So in other words- but it's not just that- if you try to stop your child from having a sexual reassignment surgery, you're now the criminal. Or if you're a school or a psychologist or anybody that's trying to do this, whether it's homosexuality or transects or any of this other stuff, this executive order makes that illegal. What? What is that? The executive order is intended to mark Pride Month and will prevent so-called conversion therapy with a historic initiative to protect children from the harmful practice- That's a quote from the executive order- The harmful practice of not chopping their genitals up. The harmful practice of not chopping a little boy's penis off. The harmful practice of not mutilating a little girl's genitals- That harmful practice. If you want to stop kids from having their genitals chopped up, this executive order now labels you a criminal, As well as safeguarding health care and programs designed to prevent you suicide. So in other words, you have a higher likelihood of committing suicide if you are in the transgender community and they say by doing this they're going to decrease suicide. So by putting people into the group that has the highest rate of suicide, they're planning on decreasing suicide Again. folks, none of it makes sense. I'm trying my best to make sense of this for you. It's just more sexual deviancy, more grooming of the children, more perverted pedophilia. This sweeping executive order requiring federal agencies to comply will issue guidance to states on gender affirmation, which the president believes is essential to protect children. Chopping up little boys and girls genitals is essential to protecting children, says Joe Biden. You cannot make this stuff up. Here's some of the quotes from his event, his Pride event at the White House yesterday. Guys, just roll me clips nine through 11.. While in attacks on the community, including ongoing attacks on transgender women of color, He's got marbles in his mouth because the attacks are more than ever last year and they're on pace again this year. What Disgusting. What does that even mean? I have to stop. What is he talking about? I mean, what a sick freak. Here he is. Guys, give me clip 10 quickly. Here he is fumbling through. I mean, I don't blame LGBTQIA. Niner 69, Topeka, Topeka Washington, Blue 16,, Blue 16, Hut, Hut, Hike Plus sexual agenda- Here he is fumbling that Let me say, as commander in chief, I'm proud to have ended the Un-American ban on transgender Americans serving in our militant. I mean, honestly, guys, you know, bring me a bag of marbles and I'll put them in my mouth and see if I can sound like Joe Biden. And then here's the first lady. She's a complete embarrassment. She had to get a little word in here too, in clip 11.. when logic cannot be applied universally, it's propaganda. that's why liberal logic is so frustrating, because it's not logic, it's propaganda. and here's some more of it. this is hilarious opinion. it's about damn time we got a celebrity apology like lizzo. so lizzo writes a song about how she likes to fight and shoot people and chop men's penises off, not even kidding you. she writes a song about how she likes to fight people and chop men's penises off, but there's a lyric in her song: girls, that's all about chopping men's penises off and fighting in the club, but there's a lyric in there it goes: do you see this beep. i'm a spaz, i'm about to knock somebody out. she, the only one here. let me just read some of these lyrics here for you: i'm a spaz, i'm about to knock somebody out. we throw them. let me take these earrings off and hit the boozy ratchet with my friends. i'm gonna go lorraine a bobbin on him so he can never beep again. now you can't beep again. and it goes on the same stuff in the song. now, of all those lyrics, which one do you think was offensive and which one do you think lizzo was apologizing for? the part where she talks about chopping men's penises off or fighting in the club, promoting the violence? no, it was spaz. spaz because apparently spaz is ableist. i'm not even kidding you. lizzo apologizes for ableist lyrics, using the word spaz because there's some disorder called spastic something, and so she used spaz. and she apologized because someone sent her a message saying: i have spastic disorder. i'm offended, uh, but not at her chopping off men's penises or fighting in the club or all of her other, uh, disgusting smut that she puts out. it was the word spaz that did it. uh, liberals, put him in the mental institutions and watch everything else work itself out. ladies and gentlemen, in the last 30 months we've witnessed the globalist hit humanity, and hit humanity extremely hard. it is beyond critical that everyone listening to the sound of my voice protect yourselves and your families to the greatest extent possible, and these two new sales do that. October 19, 2021. transmission that the power structure is working as hard as it can to shut down. Okay, let me tell you what we got coming up for you today. I was on Stephen Crowder's show a few weeks ago in Dallas. Love the show. Super funny, super talented, super smart crew And, of course, their main star, Stephen Crowder, who is a shining star of Liberty And they've told him a lot that if he criticizes, the anointed protected group amongst all the protected groups is the trans male, the males that give up their masculinism to become female. they believe- And I don't hate people that want to do that or say that I do hate them trying to be the center of attention and take over my life and go into women's bathrooms and show their penises to people, because there is that group of them doing that- that the media is defending And also raping women inside, you know, bathroom stalls And the press even covers for that, as you know. Well, he's been told: don't you dare talk about it anymore. When you know men go to prison saying they're a woman, they go: oh, you're a woman, Oh, we'll just put you in a prison so you can rape and impregnate women. He dared criticize that. So they gave him another strike and one more. Yep, Quarter, Black Garrett, Awesome. Okay, Are we ready, though? I don't know that I'm ever ready. I don't know that we want to be ready. But the Women's Liberation Front- I already hate this. The worst Reported: at least one woman at the Central California Women's Facility was pregnant after a male, transgender male prisoner was transferred there. Keep in mind: the male prisoner was permitted to transfer under the new California law, SB 132,, which allows biological males. We're not supposed to use the term biological males now. We're supposed to use a person with penis or something. Yes, No, it's something else. male Lady MacBulls- Yes, Seeding person. Yes, Seeding person. Is that what I said? Look, I don't even need to finish the premise, and it's very clearly meant to be a joke. Not only that, Alex, you were here. You know that on that show, the whole joke was we were tiptoeing around the fact that we couldn't even acknowledge the differences between biological men, who identifies women versus women, And that's the premise for an immaculate conception. So the whole joke is a not joke that we can't actually make the joke. And the interesting thing, Alex, is I don't know if you guys have the overlays from this, but the lawyer from YouTube- and I said this yesterday I find some solace in the fact that they're very expensive hourly attorney- sent a letter specifying what infraction we committed And coincidentally it happened to go up immediately, just hours after we did an entire show on the Loudoun County situation. you know the transgender, the boy- sorry, the bisexual boy in a skirt who raped multiple girls in Loudoun County. We got the notification, or, sorry, the letter, from the lawyer immediately afterward, But in there they said: you cannot, and of course, insert here: incite violence, commit hate speech. But then it said: or indicate that transgender individuals may pose a rape threat to women. That language encompasses everything on the topic of bathroom bills, That language just to be clear. what's so concerning to me is there were 100 parents right at Loudoun County who were protesting the school board because this young girl was raped by a bisexual boy in a skirt, I don't really know what gender they consider. that That's how it was reported. But parents wanted to protest in general saying: well, we are opposed to this. Why are you opposed to this? Parents at a town hall, parents at a PTA meeting, we think that letting biological boys or girls with penises, as you guys call, we think that letting them into the girls' rooms could be a potential rape risk? Boom, banned. You can say it in the real town square, but you can't say it in the digital one. And that is unprecedented what we're experiencing here. Well, I mean, actually the father went to protest about the reported rape of his daughter by the man in the skirt and they did arrest him, They did put him in handcuffs And so really, this is out of control. And then we learned he'd been transferred to another school where another rape reportedly happened, And then Yahoo News tried to say it didn't exist but later had to admit: okay, there are two police reports, there have been a arrest, And so, just like the guy out at the spa in LA, the Asian spa, who went into the hot tub with the grandma, the mother and the nine-year-old girl and, you know, talked about sex, turned out he was a convicted sex offender. And to be clear. I want to be really clear about something here. I have never, ever said that all transgender people are rapists. I've never even said, and wouldn't say, that most transgender people are racist. Why? Because I don't believe it. Now I think some are, and I think some even heterosexual males who are predators will use it as a guise to commit acts of sexual assault. I don't care how someone actually identifies. and then you go to the school board and say, okay, what about this? They said that never happened. That's the issue that we're talking about. When you talk about the California state prison system, you say, okay, what about these pregnancies? Well, that never happened. We don't have evidence that it was from a transgender individual. We just know a woman got pregnant in prison. Oh, okay, All right. Well, I thought we were following the science. So my mistake. Also, a lot of pedophiles like to dress up as women to trick children into their white raper vans. I mean, this has all come out. So there's this leftist Hollywood fetish with men dressing up like women, coming after women and children, And there is a certain percentage of predators that want to be able to hide in restrooms and, when women come in, rape them, and it's happening all over the world, And so the fact that that's happening is real and the left is trying to cover it up. Well, let's also be clear about something with the rules, There are also plenty of men who dress up like women, who don't identify as women. I mean, think of Hoover, right, There are plenty of men who have done this in the past. And the issue here now is it's kind of difficult to tell honestly for someone, a layman, to go: OK, this person is simply a man who just like a cross-dresser, but this person is transgender. This person is transsexual. because most transgender individuals don't go through with the bottom surgery. A lot of them don't go through with the top surgery. They simply dress and identify as women, But it would be considered grossly offensive to imply that they are a cross-dresser or transvestite, which at one point was just sort of something that people did. So the issue here is really it's the elimination of gender lines, the elimination of this idea that men and women are fundamentally different, The idea that children do best, ideally, in a household with a mother and a father. And I want to be clear about this too. I think, look, when you're talking about a group of transgender individuals who have a 40-plus attempted suicide rate between 41 and 42, and then it's about the same thing post-op- I do think that there needs to be compassion for these groups of people, Absolutely, Because no other group has an attempted suicide rate. American slaves didn't have a 41 to 42-percent attempted suicide rate, which tells me again. I think some transgender individuals are treated horribly- and I would never do that- But they're not, as a whole, treated worse than American slaves, which may suggest there's something internally that we can help with. Absolutely. Stay right there. Steven Crowder is trying to help people. so am I. I'm not enemies with men that are confused, but there are predators posing as women and the left is defending it. So there are feminists now who are reaching out and saying: you know what? I disagree with a lot of the things that you've said in the past, but I, I understand it. Look, you know, this is something that I. what I think is important for people to note is it's- I'm sorry, it's the fault of suburban white women. I blame you. People don't understand this. When you talk about transgender individuals in sports, for example, okay, biological men going into women's sports, most women support it. Most men oppose it. Time and time again, even though we don't have a dog in the fight. Now, the reason we oppose it is not because we hate transgender individuals. It's for the same reason that we don't want to see men beating up on women. It's quite that simple. So, look, let's just look at it this way. Let's remove the label when we're talking about the bathroom situation of transgender, whatever it is, it's just okay. let's say: I'm a sexual predator, right, and I'm attracted to women. Let's just assume that for a second. And I could be a straight white male, or I could be a male to female, transgender, lesbian, slash. your guess is as good as mine. Let's just not get too, let's not get too nerdy on the math here. What's the best way to remove opportunity of getting vulnerable women alone is making sure we protect some women only spaces. That's it. That's all it is. And if you're pro women, you have to understand where people are coming from with that. Let's stop calling the insinuation that having women only spaces should all. So let's use the term no penis spaces, Is that okay? Can we use that? Can I say that on radio? I can say penis, right, Because it's medically No penis spaces, That's it. I am pro everyone and pro no penises in women's only spaces. It's a penis free space. I mean, now the colleges have white free spaces where no whites are allowed to go, or people you know need these bastions. Can't women have no penis spaces Like women have? You would think women have gyms that are just for women- And I get that- so they can go, be left alone and not to worry how they look. for men, and men have their own gyms. There's nothing wrong with that- Actually, I haven't. The truth is, I don't think there are many. But here's the deal. What's funny to me to go on down this path? okay, Because Tucker Carlson said something about breastfeeding. And then he responded, Pete Buttgig, very snippily on CNN saying: I guess Tucker hasn't heard of bottle feeding. No, no, no, We wouldn't assume that all men bottle feed, because you have told us that men can breastfeed too. We just showed a video of that today on the show of transgender men breastfeeding. So this is the problem now is the left can't even agree to their own premises. Pete Buttigieg is trying to say: of course we know men can't breastfeed. Well, guess what? Fox and Buzzfeed and CNN and NBC say that some men can breastfeed, And AOC says that the cauliflower is racist because it's white. Cauliflower, you know what? cauliflower is one of those things that should bridge all racial divide. Yes, also heroin, by the way. heroin is one thing that white people and black people do equally. You have certain drugs that are bigger, Certain areas where you had the crack epidemic, which was largely African-American, A lot of the capitol floggers remember a few years ago they were saying milk is racist because it's white. but pulling back from the Stephen Crowder, let's get back to the transgenderism. I played for TV viewers- You obviously couldn't see it- the American psycho or psycho clip from Alfred Hitchcock of the man dressed up as the woman going around killing people. But what about, even in silence of the lambs, where it's a transgender that's got the woman down in the pit trying to get her to put lotion on the skin? Why do we art typally and just think of a man dressed up as a woman as kind of a psycho? Because we've actually seen that in the real world. That's why art's imitating life. What do you think about that phenomenon? So drum roll, please. this is the Washington Post. This is not a joke, This is not a game. This is not the onion, This is not the Babylon bead. This is real. Rachel Levine, openly transgender health official, to be sworn in as four-star admiral. It's like an escape from New York, where they go down to the basement of the building and he finds a bum that has the president's tracker. He goes, Mr President, Mr President, He looks and goes: yeah, I'm the president. I'm the president, I'm a four-star admiral. How about? No, it's not true, but let's just say it. Hell, let's give her Woman of the Year award, Like Caitlyn Jenner was. Or let's give a Nobel Prize to Obama. Or let's give one to Henry Kissinger that launched war crimes everywhere and bragged about it. Hell, let's give Hitler a Southern Property Law Center ADL award. So, Rachel Levine, openly transgender health official, to be sworn in as four-star admiral. Darth Vader literally strangled the last one and said: you are in command now, admiral. There it is, ladies and gentlemen, Can you guys find the psycho clip with audio? I'm going to play some of that here in a moment, Or you know what? I haven't played it yet. I mentioned it to Stephen Crowder. Please cue up the new little meme. Oh, before they fact-check me at Reuters and say Jones played a fake video of Fauci as the transgender psychopath in Silence of the Lambs, with the woman down in the pit saying she rubs the lotion on the skin. This is called a parody, It's called a meme, It's called a joke which they know. But they fact-check even the memes we play and say Jones tried to get a fake video over on Fauci. No, that's fake, That's a joke, This isn't fake. right here, A man saying they're a woman now is an admiral. I mean, it is a fake man, a fake woman. Of course it's totally fake. Not really an admiral, It's just governments, as they begin to collapse like any third world but in a republic, start festooning, you know, four or five, six stars on everybody they can. It's like a dictator in Latin America or something. So a senior, oh senior, oh my God. Mellford Pointy, who made history when she became the nation's highest ranking openly transgender official, is also supposed to become its first openly transgender four-star officer. The administration announced on Tuesday. Rachel Levine, oh, US Secretary for Health will be sworn in Tuesday as an admiral of the US Public Health Service Commission Corps For outreach to your children. I should add A 6,000 person force that responds to health on behalf of the federal government, including administering coronavirus vaccines and delivering care after hurricanes. Levine is also this generation's first ever female four-star admiral. Crill oil, DNA Force Plus- I've extended that for a few more days- 40% off, back in stock. Amazing Down and out, 50% off. It's got eight different natural compounds for deeper, cleaner sleep. It's all available at m4storecom. Alright, ladies and gentlemen, we've covered a lot of global news. We've covered the transgender depopulation, western style one-child policy program where we sterilize our young boys and condition them and brainwash them to accept transgenderism, which is again just chemical or physical mutilation and sterilization. That we covered a lot. We covered a lot of other big subjects, but right now I'm going to hit the big one That, yes, I've been harping on for 20 months every day on the show, because it is the great reset, It is the takeover, It is their new water plan in Klaus Schwab, in Bill Gates' own words. So I'm going to hit this right now. Huge stack here And they're all ties together. So when they hit you with a bio weapon and they tell you it naturally came out of a cave in China or a wet market, you believe it. They're all pre-programming you. When the bio weapon comes, it was because you were bad When you died. it's because you were bad, Okay, good, Okay, thank you. By the way, here's your new admiral. He's a transgender, Okay. so it says cardiovascular and respiratory diseases will come from the heat. So a respiratory disease is going to kill you from the heat. It says right there, from the heat. Leaked UN draft report warrants of accelerating climate devastation. Every local TV station in the country, basically, is running this info pieces with pure lies about me. They've got something big planned. Now. here's just an example of what I've read this weekend: Alex Jones threatened to poison David Hogg- Totally untrue. Alex Jones bullied a child and endangered them- Totally untrue. Alex Jones said mean things to transsexuals and bullied them- Not true. And that's what's amazing about all this is it's total lies. And then when they say it, they don't even link to where I said it or show it. I mean, I started seeing this weekend that Alex Jones made threats on David Hogg to poison his water And that's why he's been taking off Facebook and YouTube And I'm like what? And then you see it and like Forbes saying I beat up a kid and they're not showing where the town was when it happened, what the police report said- Just stuff they've always have to do, And it's in all these publications never showing it. You're listening to the Alex Jones show. I want to lay something out right here, in front of the whole world. people understand what is happening politically, culturally, economically, spiritually, genetically, on this planet And all of it's intertwined, Powerful corporate systems want control of the human life cycle. They want control of every action of humanity. They call it the final revolution, where everything humans do, naturally, The whole process of life, is put into an artificial system, just like the Terminator seeds put out 30 years ago by Monsanto, their child's play today, where the plants no longer produce seeds that continue the life cycle, You've got to get new seeds out of the laboratory. It is a total scientific, cold-blooded, corporate takeover, And that's what all the transgenderism is, That's what all the attack on the family is. All of that is a takeover of civilization, a takeover of the life cycle, And the people that are into whatever the latest globalist fad is to push the agenda. they are victims of it, So that when you criticize the system, they then personalize it and say: oh, look, you're attacking this poor individual. This is a codified, declassified, long-term strategic plan that you can read about in the 1920s being developed by the Royal Commission in England And then being deployed by the UN by the 1960s in a global plan. we are living in this science fiction dystopic system And humanity is trying to learn how this thing works, trying to struggle against it pretty late in the game, but coming back late in the game. They've got him walled off. He's only able to do limited things to prove he could turn the economy around. But if Trump could just get into the real shadow government, you would be blown away. So that's it. Everybody's being targeted by this. I don't care if you're black or white, or old or young, or you know, you're a transsexual or whatever you are. This whole delusion about be whatever you want in an imaginary world is because they want you to imagine imaginary rights And they want you to think about crimes against humanity hundreds of years ago so that you don't recognize the crimes against humanity they're taking place now. This is how the evil attacks. It does it by stealth, It does it through the culture, It does it through the water, the food, the chemicals, It does it through the whole program And it gets a bunch of people full of anxiety, a bunch of people scared because at their human gut level they know humanity's in a crisis. And then they misdirected at the surface level onto people that are trying to turn the ship around and fix things and say: you're full of anxiety, You've got Trump derangement syndrome because of Trump and Alex Jones, not because the whole globalist system was designed to make you a failure and was designed to bring you down. We covered that over a month and a half ago, like everybody else did. So we know the flag video. it is Well, we have the upload date and we have it on our computers. We went and looked and we're like whoa. then they did another child endangerment and it's Muslims pushing a kid on the railroad tracks But the kid doesn't get run over and that had been even on CNN. And then they said: oh well, you made fun of and you bullied transsexuals And that footage is what they called a drag queen festival in Austin with young and we won't show you the footage or we'll be totally banned. But see, that's how they're already winning. So I'm getting the point. I'm going to have to go ahead and show the footage and then do the lawsuits. And it's little kids, two year olds, putting money in the G string of big fat men with purple wigs shaking their butts and children's faces. they're on the news now saying that I am calling for the poisoning of David Hogg. by the way, we never played the David Hogg thing. I know you found it, but I mentioned it and I never got to it. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, and when they say that they don't show David Hogg, saying I'm a bad guy, that I saw water filters, and I say, David Hogg, you really should be drinking filtered water, I mean that's what I'm saying. the level of the left, how they play like their victims when they're actually bullies is insane. and they're all these public figures and then they have a self-described drag queen transsexual. then they use Q word that if I use it they'd say I was being hateful, and that's in Barry Diller's Newsweek, everywhere we report on it. and then they say, oh, another strike on your Facebook. we're taking that video down because someone was offended by you saying, hey, this big drag queen festival hating Trump is ridiculous. so that criticize you. it was based on the slave trade at Medina. it invaded the planet and now the evil forces of globalism are allied with it. and that's the Al Qaeda flag, by the way, right there being taught in Europe and in in Danish households. and I could see the whole globalist plan. they admit their plan and the fact that YouTube, Google, Facebook, Twitter are blocking me. and I've been told: you leave transsexualism alone and you leave Islam alone and you'll be able to operate however you want. I was told in off-record meetings: what do you want off-record? and reason people have off-record meetings with me is: unless it's illegal, it's off-record. and I was told by the New York Times who shed an emissary, other senior people, I was told the London Guardian, I was told by National Democrat lawyer and then I was told by other Democrat lawyers and I was given messages directly from Soros a year ago and they said: this is your last chance. you stop what you're doing or we're gonna destroy you. what do you want? they said off-record, off-record. who said it? I said, yeah, it's off-record. I've been given the message even more than that. now, Islam's good, accept it being brought in the integration of Islam with the West and do not talk about transsexuals. and I meant- and I expanded on that, I go, you mean, you mean just period, they go. well, the whole thing which is the sexualization of children, because if you can't even say the word, only they can't, it's like the n-word. the media takes it where that only black people can say it, which I don't want to say it fine, but then it becomes this power word. well, now you can't say: Google, Twitter, Facebook, all call us. last year we recorded some of the phone calls for lawsuits. we even, you know, told them they're on record. they couldn't believe it. we're like, yeah, we're recording you and they're like you cannot, but everybody else can say it. Barry Diller can say it, news, we can say it and CNN can say it and everybody else can say it: talk about a new class system, but I can't say it. so they said: don't use the t-word use transsexual. and I said, just as a test, I'll do that. they banned those videos too. imagine that cult power has nothing to do with the transsexuals. they're just a group they're using to say you can't talk about it. I got a whole stack of news articles right here, dozens of them from just people protesting Trump. drag Queens, trans and queer people protest Trump in London. true media group, liberal group- the document cam shot place for TV viewers right over here. it's never too soon to be fabulous drag queen. story hours to teach kids all this. letting an eight-year-old be a drag queen isn't progressive, it's child abuse. well, that's, that's what the examiner said. now you can't use the word drag queen. transgender lessons for two-year-olds. drag queens drafted into nursery schools teach children about sexual diversity. yeah there, nothing wrong going on there. Daily Mail cross-treasures and transsexuals gather at Trump protest in London. these are all positive, they're all pro. here's Barry Diller, owns Newsweek. now Donald Trump to be met with mass drag queen protests when he visits Britain. I won't even read the terms they use here, but they use the Q word and all this in their article. but what did they tell us? I'm going to show you right here? they said: you don't work, use any of those terms and you don't report on it because the community doesn't like it. that's southern poverty law center flaggers- please review the community standards. and they took down our video that simply shows the demonstrations. cross dressers and transsexuals gather at Trump protests in London and then those are the names of the groups they use. but we aren't even allowed to report what's going on. you see how that works. and then here's our article on it: this goes on in public city streets and then we simply say: here it is. look at it and politically, people in the streets in the West say: you don't have speech, we're going to bar you because we you dare even show what we're saying and what we're doing. somebody's got the right to use it and people have a right to say it's wrong. but now it's and I'm not afraid of them banning me. I'm not gonna play their game, the T word. they go. well, now we have the recordings. they go: we want you to use transsexual or drag queen. and we're like, okay, we'll play that game. and, sure enough, a year later, we got three recordings- Facebook, Twitter and YouTube- calling us saying: you will not use this or you will be banned. and we got recordings. and now, a year later, they're saying: now, don't use that word. they're doing it And that ties into taxpayers could be on the hook for billions in damages to Canadian firm over. Biden's cancellation of Keystone cost more than $15 billion to build it And now there's another 60-something-year-old pipeline agreement with a whole bunch of old and new pipelines with the safest safety record the world's ever seen, by the way. I was reading deep into it a few weeks ago, upcoming out of Canada into Michigan with natural gas, gasoline and oil pipelines that supply most of the Midwest And the governor- quote- ordered them shut because Biden wants to heat off him. He said governors are allowed to now shut down pipelines, even that border Mexico and Canada, which under international law governor can't do that. So this is just beyond criminal, just like the open border and saying immediately surge the border. It's all part of the attack on our stability and our families and our society And that's why the police have now set out in LA the woman calling the police on a man showing his penis to her six-year-old daughter. They've checked the surveillance footage. It's not denied. He went to women's bathroom and pulled his pants down and said: I've had sex with lots of women. Do you like my penis. I mean, this is what happened to the six-year-old folks. Sorry to talk about it on air. The police said it's bad. just like Cuomo said four years ago, if your daughter doesn't like seeing a woman's penis- women have penises now, according to the left, and you know, if your penis up is down, down is up, then you're a horrible person. And if your parents taught you that that's bad, you're a horrible person Because if you'll put up with men in the shower, with your six-year-old daughter, brother, you'll put up with anything. And then Antifa came out and beat up a bunch of people. There's hours of footage of them beating up women and men. by the way, most of us were like reasonable hippies just out there saying hey, stop it. we disappear, your ass. i sure do wish we had that here in america, but we're gonna get it as soon as we set up all these money, sonny. sonny boy, remember, every time you eat at dairy queen, you're putting money in monger's pocket. that's okay, sonny, but he says china right to clip mars wings and disappear him. last time he was seen as a forced labor camp, sonny, and we're gonna. you know who funds all the transgenderism. you know open borders- why? it's me, sonny, and you know who's got our curbs marching in red heels. it's me that turns me on. i like jeffrey ebsky, like bill gates. yeah, oh, now they admit the vaccine doesn't work and oh, you know, you got to have a lot more because now there's all these other variants that are- and it's all made up- fake PCR tests, 94% false positives, sending sick people in nursing homes to get the death numbers up. these people have followed the criminal orders of Bill Gates and the globalist and the Bilderberg group and the club of Rome and the Davos group and Klaus Schwab through the corporate America, and have committed massive crimes against humanity and we need Nuremberg 2.0 against these dirtbags. I'm going to give the number out. we come back. I have not gone through any of the stack yet. I'll give you the topics I want to cover also, as well as the war on privacy, as the war on women and children accelerates, the pivot of the spear being the transgender movement police now saying: hey, if you're six year old, daughter's in a shower and a man runs in and shakes his penis, header, you're bad to call the police. that's an honor to have that done. I'm not joking. we'll be right back. that's what CNN said four years ago. it's sexualization of children. it's pedophilia. it's globalism, it's corporatism. apple and google give the black lives matter. black lives matter. wants to end the traditional family and wants, to quote, make black men transgender. you'll know your enemy when they come after your testicles. they want to get rid of men, they want to get rid of leadership, they want to get rid of anybody that that could say no to them, and it is a colonialism. globalism is the corporations that have already taken over the third world, taking over the first world and even taking over our bedrooms and our lives. it's transhumanism in their own admissions. because if you'll accept a naked man in in the women's showers at the local gym propositioning women saying i've had sex with a lot of women and the police are called, they said: how dare you? at that gym in california, at that spot, the articles on info wars dot com woman who complained to police about man exposing his genitalia. their six-year-old daughter says they blamed her. that sounds unbelievable. remember what chris qualmo did four years ago. a school complained about a transgender coach who hadn't had his uh trousers. snake, removed his johnson and boom they're in the shower. the girls get freaked out eleven-year-old. and qualmo said: hey, your daughter shouldn't get upset by seeing a woman's penis. that's a quote. you shouldn't get upset about a woman's penis. think about that. and that's the type of upside down world they teach us. he said you should teach tolerance on girls not wanting to see male genitalia in the locker room. parents should teach tolerance. that's just some of the news that we've got here. but in case you're doubting me, here's the actual article by paul joseph watson at info wars dot com that links to local news. woman who complained to police about a man- that's what he is exposing his in a telly to a six year old daughter- says they blamed her. yes, really, the incident occurred at the now notorious we spa in los angeles side of the protest and counter protest on saturday over another similar incident, during which a biological male exposed to genitals to women and little girls in the female area. they said. he said: do you like my penis? i've had sex with lots of women, according to the women who wishes were anonymous for obvious reasons. the incident happened in january 2020 and, notice, if you do this at a park you get arrested, but because it's in the bathroom with the lefts upset, obsessed with poop and pee, and they put little artificial penises in little girls baby diapers to teach them to say i want a penis. i mean they're, they're just pedophiles folks. it all happened to me so i had a relapse of these feelings after having forgotten them. she told the post wheel i knew it was a family spa and i decided to take my daughter. it's kind of trendy. why is all the media? why are the universities bullying everyone and threatening miss america if they don't nominate a man that says they're a woman? and the olympics, they're saying, are going to be all men competing as women and no women will win any of the sports, except maybe target shooting, as women are as good or better if trained right with guns i mean, women are going to lose everywhere and that's men invading the sport. you know answer: i'm strong, took testosterone and they say it took too much of it. took some other things because he lost one testicle with cancer and he was defrocked and lost all of his true difference titles and the rest of them, lost his big mansion, everything else, and they say he's the villain of all villains. but it's okay to have men go into the private women's area of a spa in their bathrooms and get naked with a beard, with their penis in the hot tub in front of a six year old girl, and the police say that's fine. that's like saying a motorcycle rider identifies as a cyclist and it's going to go introduce themselves into the cycling community and look at the. they've done all the spoofs and like: oh, motorcyclist. identifies as a cyclist, wins world championship. hell, give them a you know 300 horsepower motorcycle that goes 300 miles an hour and they'll finish the tour to France days before everybody else. suspend your own logic. let us rip you off. let us hurt you, let us kill you, let us scam you, let us sterilize you. that's all any of this is so here it is, clip to. we're gonna play it first. transgender Olympian qualifies for Tokyo. that's like giving warmongers Henry Kissinger a Nobel Peace Prize or giving one to Obama. you make it a joke. first, transgender Olympian qualifies for Tokyo. New Zealand weight lifter Laurel Hubbard is a big man, is set to become the first transgender athlete to compete in the Olympic games after he. they say she was selected for the national team. she, which is a. he will compete in the woman's 87 kilogram category, according to a statement released in the New Zealand Olympic Committee that will announce the four other members of the weightlifting team. totally different bones, totally different muscles, with testosterone. so if any of the women get caught using testosterone, they get kicked out. but because this person says their woman has testicles, they get to do it and the Olympic Committee agrees. here's in his club has been made as well. as weightlifter, Laurel Hubbard has become the first transgender athlete to qualify for an Olympic Games. transgender athletes have been allowed to compete at the game since 2015, but up to this point nobody has qualified. Hubbard competed in men's weightlifting competitions before transitioning in 2013, and she's set to compete in the super heavyweight- 87 kilogram category as the oldest athlete in the competition, at the age of 43. another transgender athlete, BMX rider, Chelsea Wolf, will travel to Tokyo as part of the United States team, but has been named as an alternate, so she's not assured of competing. by the way, you can even see the bulge in his pants, so it's a big ugly, fat dude who's a bully in a thug, and the globalist, the debos group, are laughing that. there's a sick joke. to teach his depopulation that. oh, he says he's a woman. Jesus is saying as to where we are right now. this is Matthew 24, verse 9. then they shall deliver you up to be afflicted and shall kill you, and ye shall be hated of all nations for my name, say and then shall many be offended and shall betray one another and shall hate one another. that's right where we're at, brother, and that's because God's name is on the founding of this country, no matter what they say, and that's why the enemy hates it, because God created this country. you're listening to the Alex Jones show. ladies and gentlemen, we are back live, opening the phones up for first time callers today on any subjects you want to talk about. but the whole transgender invasion, the vaccines killing so many people, the attempts to make it forced in the military. how do we fight back against this? what are your pro vaccine stories, your anti-vaccine stories? you agree? you disagree? you're listening to the alex jones show. let's go. Ain't nobody feeling no pain? Welcome back, folks. Alex Jones, here live And I wish I would have read the little tags. the callers tell us how to go on with this caller earlier here on The Alex Jones Show, Anonymous in PA Caller is transgender on the topic of trans people, So I'm glad you called in about that. Look, I don't hate anybody for what color they are or what they want to be or any of that. I don't like the takeover of bathrooms, the coming in and saying biological men are going to compete against women. It flies in the face of reality. And again they want to use people that want to be something else or feel like there's something else As the new frontier of freedom. I'm feeling so much better with my neck and my back and a lot of chronic pain. I just wanted to say that off the top, but Well, I appreciate your support and I appreciate you calling in. Yes, Thank you so much. I know we don't have a lot of time. It's just one major thing about the trans community. We have, unfortunately, sex offenders and pedophiles that try to use that small window of freedom that a lot of us trans women and trans men are given to take up our choice that we can take in the United States of America to change our gender marker, change our name and live our lives as whatever gender we wish. are not, you know, attending to harm people or indoctrinating children or anything like that. want to live our lives, date whoever we want, you know, espouse whatever political views we want. That's everything we have in this country, which I love, And there are people that need to be taken to justice, like that weak spot issue. That's horrible. I mean you go out and look at the average male, You're going to see what it's like to look like, And I mean I'm pretty masculine and compared to, say, my dad's dad, I mean I'm not as masculine as he was, or even my mom's dad, And the people are extremely masculine And that scared the system. They were scared of men like that And so they put chemicals in the food and water to do what they've done now, And so that's my view, What's your view? And I totally agree with everything that you just said. I watch you all the time And in all likelihood, just someone like me had steroids that I took for an illness when I was younger. or it was vaccinations, or it was something in the water, something in utero. It could have been anything that could have changed my productivity to go towards being a transgender woman. There are a lot of people who probably have similar stories. Well, let's expand on that. My dad is short- He doesn't care, It's fine with him- because he was playing football in junior high, hurt his knees and they just gave him steroids to get over it back then and that stung his growth. So his dad was like 6'3 and he's like 5'8 or whatever. A video that went viral on Twitter showed a customer at Whispar complaining about a man exposing his genitals to women and little girls in the female area of the spa. The staff at Whispar responded by defending the individual's right to do this, claiming it was an expression of his sexual orientation. Yeah, really. Then the CEO of a trans lobby group, who was interviewed by CBS Los Angeles, said the woman who complained was quote horrible and had practiced- quote- violence against the individual who had flashed his genitals, And it's highly likely that the same individual was the subject of a 2018 complaint from a different woman who wrote about a naked man in the female shower section, bragging about how many women he'd slept with. Los Angeles Magazine then highlighted a report from another spa in the city where a similar incident occurred. A rep for Century Day and Night Spa on Olympic Boulevard recalls a similar situation just weeks before the pandemic shut them down in spring 2020, in which a trans woman with everything reflected female on a driver's license caused an uproar among cisgender female clients by exposing male genitals in the female pools and lockers. She wouldn't really use the spas. She just sat at the corner of the pool with her feet in the water and her legs spread, or took front-facing showers. the rep recalls People began to feel uncomfortable. It became very disruptive. When the spa finally confronted her, it became evident that the spa should attempt to normalize young girls and women viewing male genitalia. And today we learned about another incident at We Spar that occurred in January 2020, where a person with a beard and a penis got into a hot tub naked with a woman's six-year-old daughter. So to be clear, these individuals aren't just trans people minding their own business. They're perverts in the women's section. they're really provoking people and deliberately exposing themselves to kids and getting away with it by hiding behind the false claim of trans identity. So dangerous bigots who oppose the idea of children being exposed to male genitalia responded by organizing a protest outside We Spar on Saturday. And guess who showed up to counter-protest? and the technology can be used to empower us, but instead it's being used to enslave us. Obviously, the big elephant in the room I haven't mentioned yet I'm going to get to it. next segment Update: 54-year-old Lisa Marie Presley suffered full cardiac arrest at home, rushed to hospital and died. You say, well, she didn't die from the shot. It could just be a coincidence- Well, not, when the statistics show a 13% increase in overall death year after year since the shots began- a record number. We've got some other unbelievable news that ties into this when we come back, and then that gets into this other stack of news that the whole transgender movement is a transhumanist movement for a post-human, genetic engineered, cybernetic world, and it's groups of academics and academic elites that are actually the high priest of this new system. It's not about a man's right to feel like a woman and live their life as a woman. That's somebody's right and I don't hate them for it. It is a larger program to get us to accept that. then we'll accept human animal hybrids, human spliced, genetically engineered humanoids and we'll be forced to accept them as having rights. Info Wars MD. You want to stop tyranny? Well, so does. he Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide. it's Alex Jones. So a lot of videos have come out in the last few years of medical ads at major universities across not just the United States but the Western world, Particularly the US, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, UK, Europe, saying, hey, we're going to make a lot of money cutting women's breast off, mastectomies, hysterectomies, cutting out their uteruses, We're going to make a lot of money cutting little boys' penises and testicles off. And then they'll mention: well, we make 50 grand on this and 20 grand on that, And our universities. you know, just done a thousand of these this year. we're ramping up to 10,000 next year. You've seen the chilling videos And that's what this is about. at the level of the hospitals is making the money, But the big academics and the big think tanks and MI6 and the Pritzker's and a lot of the big Republican Party donors are also pushing this. not just the Democrats and major groups like Disney and Microsoft have given every year millions and millions of dollars, not just here but all over the world, to pay for drag queen story time with big fat, ugly men dressed like clowns who were hideous to get children to go sit in their laps. In some cases, when the men are not even wearing underwear, they put glitter on their penises And we shot this in Austin in a major event. Stations have asked us not even to show it, but this is what children are going through. ladies and gentlemen, If you went and sat on a man's erection that had glitter on it at a topless bar, the police would arrest you. It's illegal. But if it's a child- oh, it's liberal, it's supposedly normal. There aren't just tens of thousands of cases a year in the US alone, and it's exponentially going up, of 10,, 12,, 13,, 14 year old girls having double mastectomies because they want to be a boy. Women are now having their uteruses removed because they- quote- want to be a man and then they wear plastic genitals in their pants. This is a big push and they're teaching kids about it in school. But now they're starting, and it's already begun: uterine transplants. Uteruses are being cut out of women who don't want to be women and they're being stuck in the guts of men even though they're not designed for it. Their penises and genitals are being removed and they're putting in false vaginas. and there's there it is. the Penn Medicine Penn Uterus Transplant Program- Uterine transplant trials- welcomes its first baby. So this is mad scientist stuff out of a Hellraiser novel. and now men are going to start getting uterine transplants so they can say they're women and the taxpayers are going to pay for it, While they tell people: go ahead and just kill yourself in places like California and places like Toronto and places like London, places like Berlin. One area that had not been looked at before in any serious way was: could the donors be live donors? Because in the original study it was. the conclusion was that they would have to be cadaver based donors or from individuals who were no longer alive. Right, So live donation has been something the community has talked about for decades. It was really seen as magical, thinking. This would be a live donation from a person who was assigned female at birth but identified as a transgender man. And they said: well, you know, I have these parts, I don't want them, You want them, You need them. So what if I gave them to you? How would that work? And apparently, based on their research, this is actually viable. Anecdotally many, but not all, transgender women, especially those who transition younger in life, have expressed an interest in having children in a way that is congruent for their own bodies. But it was still surprising to see the data. It was a fairly large study, as transgender studies go: 182 transgender women, 60% of which were aged in the ideal 20 to 29 age range, And most had no children. 94% indicated they had a desire for children. All right, let's stop right there. I want to go to the next clip. Allison, who is a man who says that she's a woman totally out of their mind but running a program targeting children, goes into their personal story of wanting to have a baby. So we want to pay people not to have children. We're attacking families, We're going after them, But we need to spend taxpayer money to give men uteruses. Here it is. I actually transitioned as a transgender youth 30 years ago, at a time when we didn't even use the word transgender very much, And I kept a diary. and about five years ago I looked back on that diary and I was actually surprised to see that one of the biggest considerations I had at the age of 20 was the potential for pregnancy And I wrote in that diary: well, I'll give the medical community 20 years. I'm sure they'll figure it out by then, 30 years later, one of the main reasons I do the work I do is a desire to push us in that direction, And the data now supports that. this is something that members of my community desperately want if it were offered Now. they have record suicides. We added a few clips backing it up when it is the act regime making the male frogs want to have sex with other male frogs, meaning they become extinct. So even stuff that's documented, he tries to say, is made up. Here it is. You said that chemicals in the water which are put there by the government are turning frogs gay in a gay bomb. You said Michelle Obama is a man. In a 12 minute video you analyzed footage of photographs proving that Mrs Obama has a penis. You said that Robert Muller, the former FBI director who investigated Trump's Russia ties, which turned out to be Can we stop? Can we hold on? Was it one of these? Hang on, Was it the money? Is this like a new cottage career move for you? I'm so excited I should do very well, because I don't chose. And do you think that the country will see the first, the United States will see the first gay president or the first woman president? Well, we already have it with Obama. so let's just calm down, Got it? You know, Michelle is a transgender. I'm sorry, she's a what A transgender We all know. Oh, my gosh, Oh gosh, It's okay. Okay, so he mixed that with me saying gay bum and with the frogs all together, scrambling quotes together: The Pentagon, BBC, ABC News, 1994, US military actually considered building a gay bomb and did and tested on US soldiers. Okay, so that's mainstream news, It's on screen for TV viewers. That's what I did. care about your family. I know you know what's going on, but do people in your neighborhood know You better warn them, give them a printout of the article from infowars and ask them to go visit it. just because it's banned in cyberspace doesn't mean you can't send to the URL. Global fascism. Dr Malone breaks down the World Economic Forum's globalist agenda and here's the good news. whether it is Joe Rogan, or whether it's his guest, or Tucker Carlson, or whether it is a lot of these other prominent scientists, or whether it's Senator Paul or Josh, Senator Holly or Senator Cruz, they're all talking about globalists in the new world order and their plan and how the transgenderism and the world IDs and the forced inoculations is them. and I know as an audience you're like: yeah, we know, we've known before you were on air. most of you, a lot of you were. you know, before I was born knew this. I know Barry Goldwater knew about this 60 years ago. where is anybody saying this is a bad idea? because this is all going on at giant summits, all being announced. and then I talk about it and the Democratic Party sues me and tries to shut our show down because it's like the big adult tables over here at Thanksgiving. the little kids are over at this table and I'm trying to get folks from the little kid table, the people, to go: hey, we're adults too. what's going on? and come over to the big kid table, the big people table and say, hey, we want to be involved in this, we don't want to be obsolete, we don't want to be transgender, we don't want to be sterilized, we don't want to have nothing and own nothing and like it. so you really need to be discussing that and talking about that and asking yourselves whether or not you like the future that these monsters right now are preparing for you and your family and me and everybody else, because we literally are all in this together. you know, I've been on Howard Stern's show a few times and his show is a shadow of itself. and I don't say that because Howard Stern is so establishment and so anti-free speech and such a bootlicker. I say that because he's just mailing it in. That really sent everyone on the right side into the stratosphere, The most unhinge faction of the right, which, as you heard on Fox News, is now vilifying Disney as some sort of creepy Q and non-adjacent nefarious group of sexual deviants. But all that obscures what I think is really going on here. We're seeing- and I really really gather seeing- in the last month or so a seismic change in our politics, with the conservative movement restarting its war against gay people. No matter how many times the text of the bill is explained, the mass formation psychosis can't be broken while the progenitors of pedophilia take their stand behind the lie. Don't say gay, Don't say as the first two words in a sentence spoken by a political leader of a state. I'm here as a mother of two queer children- actually One transgender child and one pansexual child- and also as a leader. We have many, many, many LGBTQIA characters in our stories and yet we don't have enough leads and narratives in which gay characters just get to be characters. What is goofy? sexual preference Is many a pansexual? Is Snow White secretly into BDSM? This is a gang. this is a cult. that's what it is, And along with it, we see the signs up all over the country: stop having kidsorg. stop having children. If you can't kill a kid before it's born, well, just make it sterilize itself. it's transgender or be with the same sex. That's really the plan. This is the West one-child policy. through social engineering, Hollywood town- and how many times did I tell you this? Hundreds. We don't want to be part of Walt Pito Co. Pito Co- no longer Walt Disney Co. it's now Walt Rapier Children Company. How many of their executives have been arrested raping children? How many of their workers held hundreds in the last month? And look at this. this is a real Disney image. they're famous for the subliminals where Mickey and Minnie are having a dance and Minnie's lower body is, of course, something else: 100% a penis. That's real, certified Disney. ladies and gentlemen, assaulting your children. There's another transgender man who gave birth to his son, criticized his medical staff for calling him mother and claims it's important to stop automatically linking pregnancy with being a woman. There's a crazy woman with a beard that has a baby, and then it's a woman. I mean, it's all them training you. oh, look at this mother just had a baby. they had a surrogate, have a baby. Well, my son is gay, gay, very gay. Yeah, they like whales are straight and horses are, and butterflies. it's called biology. These people are in a cult, ladies and gentlemen. But talk about clown world. here is the transgender, the creepiest looking dude ever. undersecretary of health, declared a role model for trans kids. This is Rachel Levine, a dude with a penis now in what looks like an admiral outfit. he got at a costume shop talking about how he's an admiral. So he's not just a woman, he's an admiral. now, How about a genie? how about a Empire State building? How much do you see yourself? in some ways, admiral Levine is a role model for trans kids, given that you are such a high ranking official in the government. Well, thank you so much. it is such an honor to serve in this position. it's an honor to have been nominated and then confirmed as the assistant secretary for health and then truly an honor to have taken the uniform of the United States Public Health Service Commission Corps as a four star admiral. So I am truly privileged and I am honored to serve as a role model for transgender individuals. but what I want to do is give back. And what? the two ways that I can give back is: one, to be very vocal and advocate for the LGBTQI plus community, specifically transgender individuals, and to work on specific policies at HHS and throughout the administration that support diversity, equity and inclusion. So it wants a relationship with your children. it rubs the lotion on the skin. a creepy, scary looking dude. I mean again, if you want to make a horror movie of somebody that kidnaps kids, keeps them in basements, you are casting admiral. well, it didn't turn out that, huh. all you wanted was our children. this isn't about gay or any of that. it's about not having children. if you do have children, sterilizing them and screwing them up and using them as some trendy virtue signal you destroy. So here's clip 14, this is a transgender army soldier being celebrated as a hero. and then let's go to the next clip. clip 20 is shocky, saying pregnant people, not women, and then 23 is the real agenda behind transhumanism. I'm going to air all these. I don't have time for the full clip. I am just barely walking up the steps to join my ancestors. I am not even a good person yet And I intend to join them Because everything they gave to us, they imparted will and honor and strength and they transmitted it spiritually down through the time, through men and women, to us. And we now here are the holders of that great honor, of that great title, And we must be strong in the face of these satanic forces. Please support us at forestorecom. Now let me give you some really big news. I've not been sure about Michelle Obama being a transsexual And I'm very serious when I cover this. Sometimes I look back and it seems silly to even be covering such a subject until you realize the globalists are like a tranny cult In the culture, in the media, in the TV shows, with drag racing and the rest of it. they're obsessed with it, And Hollywood has made countless drag movies, Even if they're not popular. they keep force-feeding them And I just keep wondering what's going on? without even looking for it, when you're on the Internet or your iPhone surfing, It gets shoved and shoveled at you And you ask yourself: why is this so popular? And the answer is it isn't, But in the minds of the elite, this must be one of their other favorite fetishes. Nowhere in any of these articles showing you how controlled corporate media is. Hundreds of them this morning. Do they say Joan Rivers said it? and that's how I start the video. We took the video that they've basically tried to ban, put it into a larger context news piece I did and showed Joan Rivers right before she died mysteriously in a medical accident, saying, oh, we already have a gay president. Michelle and Obama- you know she's a tranny and she had dinner with them, She was friends with them and then she died because they didn't want her doing further interviews. So I look at it and I just say there's no way they're that bold, There's no way that they're that crazy, There's no way that this is actually happening. and then I see this video shot by a Democrat, by one of their fans. We've got the ladies page right here. She shoots the video, Sandy Alton Sennett, and she shoots it of Michelle and Obama coming out, or Michael, as he calls her, he, whatever, it is, She, she, mail, whatever- And she's walking down and this is the raw video off her Facebook. Calben Soap Company can save you thousands of dollars and give you good, old-fashioned, real soaps that are triple concentrated Soaps made from vegetable and coconut oils. See their full selection of soaps at five-star-soapcom, That's F-I-V-E-star-soapcom, or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog. Well, ladies and gentlemen, Chelsea Clinton, Good myths. in the WikiLeaks They robbed 97% of the money from the Haitians and killed people. She says we're killing people. She's saying that Michelle Obama or Michael Obama is everything. this site will never be. Honorable, brave, beloved, beautiful. Don't need to watch an awful video to know that. Ha, This is video shot by one of their fans where she looks like she either got a rubber snake in her pants or she is could be a major porn star in Hollywood. okay, And I'm not putting trannies down, So here's the deal. Joan Rivers said this and died, And none of the media will even cover that. she had dinner with the Obamas, She was friends with them and she was all for it, saying it's great that she was gay and that he's got a tranny wife And it's a big joke on America, And then she died. But they don't ever show in the reports that I'm saying. Joan Rivers said it. I was never sure. It was kind of a joke to me. Because in America it's still okay to ask questions. After all, there are many questions surrounding the president's past, And now people are starting to question the sexual orientation of the First Lady. Alex Jones has a special report on that. But first here's what Joan Rivers had to say to kick the controversy into the mainstream. You know, Michelle is a trans. I'm sorry, she's a what A transgender We all know. Oh my gosh, Is this final proof that Michelle Obama is a man? That's what the headlines are reading across the Internet. I first saw this headline last night And since then the video has gone super viral across YouTube platforms. I'm going to come back in the next segment. Here? it is The proof that Michelle Obama is a man. That's what the headlines are reading across the internet. I first saw this headline last night and since then the video has gone super viral across YouTube and other platforms. The problem is channels posting it are being deleted. Now I'm not saying that Michelle Obama is a tranny- And I don't hate trannies, I'm a libertarian- But we have famous photos of her where it appears she has a large bulge in her pants, And we have Joan Roberts, who was a big fan of gays and trannies and everything else, saying, hey, we've already got our first gay couple because Michelle is a tranny. She died a month or so later in a freak medical mishap. And then you expand and look at it: The fact that in his own book that Obama wrote about growing up, he talked about being raised by a tranny nanny in Indonesia. And so you ask yourself: there's this media obsession with trannies? and Michelle keeps in public photos and videos to appear to have a very large penis in her pants or shoulders are wide, Her face is very, very masculine. She looks like a tranny. And so you ask yourself: are the children a beard for Obama? And, of course, Michelle Obama, or Michael Obama, as he's called her in two different videos. Here is some of the past photos that got people thinking. And then Joan Rivers saying, indeed, that Michelle is a tranny. And let's be clear, The media has said that I am the progenitor or the creator of this theory. I am not the creator of this theory. This has been on the Internet since the campaign, since he kept calling her Michael in all these press conferences and events. How do you call your wife Michael when it's Michelle, Men and women of the finest military in the world, Most of all Admiral Mullen, Deborah, Michael and I, Michael and I, Michael and I. I am so excited And I should do very well because I don't show it. And do you think that the country will see the first, the United States will see the first gay president or the first woman president? We already have it with Obama. So let's just calm down, Got it? You know Michelle is a trans. I'm sorry, she's a. what A transgender We all know. Oh my gosh, It's okay. We've blown up this video, We have enhanced this video, just shot days ago as they were visiting one of their daughters at college, And it doesn't look like a cell phone in her pants, in her, in her, in her dress. It doesn't look like. it looks like a cucumber or something right out of the movie spinal tap. and well, who's going to create those boosters? mainly Pfizer. and they're creating new viruses, apparently new mutations, to create grease the skids for that necessity. so we'll get into that, because it seems like certain news outlets have started to delete their reporting, perhaps getting word from Pfizer itself, as we shall see. first, though, I want to go to this video because it kind of explains the story, and then there's been numerous updates to this story, after which I'm going to get into. basically, in Scotland, a man was convicted- a man, a biological male, with a Mike Tyson tattoo on his face, who later identified as transgender. of course, nothing says feminine more than getting a Mike Tyson tattoo on your face. conveniently for him, he identified as transgender when he was on trial for raping to women, and this video gets into it- big backlash to this today, which I'm going to get into first. like explain the controversy, though, which is our first video today. it's called- you'll barely believe this, let's roll it me- Adam Graham. Mr Graham was convicted of raping to women in 2016 and 2019. one of his victims said- quote: I told him to stop and he did not. he kept going- that's when I close my eyes and let him do what he wanted to do. now imagine just for a second. the authorities decided to send this convicted male rapist to a female prison full of women. total insanity, right? I'd be like sending a convicted nonce to do a motivational talk at a primary school. well, you don't have to imagine it, because it's actually happening. all thanks to trans mania. you see. Mr Graham now identifies as Isla Bryson and so is, in the eyes of the legal system, now a woman, according to Bryson- and let's not disrespect the pronouns of a convicted criminal. as they banned this video, she she said she felt she was transgender since the age of four but just by coincidence only decided to identify as a woman after being caught violently raping to women with her penis. despite this, the authorities, in their infinite wisdom of ensuring that the alphabet people don't get offended, still decided to send Isla to HMP quantum veil, a women's prison in Stirling. this all happened in Scotland, where the government just tried to pass a bill enabling children as young as 15 to begin the process of legally changing their gender. under the law, they would only have to live as their new gender for six months and then can legally apply to have it changed on their 16th birthday. trans mania. several years ago, I came out as pansexual and a trans man. it gets better. my mom convinced me not to share my transition with my child and I didn't. I kept it quiet because they were young. a few years ago he came out as a trans boy. a few rational people remaining in the Scottish Parliament tried to add an amendment to the bill that would have made it harder for sex offenders to fraudulently apply to change their legal gender in order to avoid helping out convicted rapists like Adam Graham and to prevent the legislation from being exploited by male predators to gain access to female spaces. but members of the Scottish Parliament wait for it. voted it down, yes, because apparently it's more important for people like Adam Graham- I mean, sorry, Isla Bryson- to be able to claim and have it legally recognized, after 30 years of being a man, that they're now a woman, and it is to not send convicted male rapists to female prisons full of women. LGBT activists who supported the legislation that attempts to stop convicted sex offenders from being able to change their gender were transphobic. the fact that sending a convicted rapist to a women's jail would be even considered shows how mad this has all become, said Susan Smith, the director with the four women's Scotland campaign group. okay, transfer, note how the LGBT activists are not saying now these convicted criminals are just exploiting transgender identities to get more lenient treatment. this is nothing to do with us. don't conflate the two. they're not saying that the LGBT activists are defending the right of the convicted criminal sex offenders to identify as transgender. Bryson told the court that she expects the taxpayer to foot the bill for transgender surgery on the NHS. she also revealed how, as a young child, she was- quote- always hanging about with the girls and always doing makeup. obviously, Isla was a girly girl from an early age. I mean, what kind of female princess doesn't one day dream of getting a Mike Tyson face tattoo? similar cases to that of Mr Graham's convicted rapists claiming to be transgender to avoid being properly punished abound, and yet the trans lobby continues to insist that their rights be protected. Well, there you have it. that was the situation as of yesterday with this case and again, as I mentioned in the video, the Scottish government has been vehemently lobbying, lobbying for this gender identity law. it was blocked. it was even blocked in Westminster by Rishi Sunak, the British Prime Minister. now, of course, they're doing that purely out of self-interest and this individual has become the centre of this controversy. now that was yesterday. massive backlash built up overnight and then this morning we had this headline on summitnews and it changed very quickly after that: Scottish government refuses to remove convicted trans rapists from women's prison because, again, it made a complete mockery of this gender identity law which they're trying to pass. so they actually stood by the Scottish government and the MPs in Parliament stood by sending this trans rapist, this biological male rapist, to what is, by the way, the only all female prison in Scotland, in the entire country. so they've only got one and he was sent to that prison because they couldn't back down because it would then render their gender identity bill completely ludicrous, which is obviously what it is anyway. but again, this is from this morning: despite a massive backlash, the Scottish government is refusing to remove a transgender rapist from a female prison, despite his conviction for raping two women. So they quoted in this ITN article Keith Brown, Scotland's justice secretary, who, quote: expressed faith in the Scottish prison services decision to place a transgender woman convicted of raping two women before she had transitioned, yeah, identified when he was on trial in a women's prison, and then Nicola Sturgeon, the first minister, the leader of Scotland, basically backed up that decision, but it soon changed. the pressure was too great that they had to finally back down. daily mail, now reporting transgender double rapist, Isla Bryson, and, of course, all these news outlets, some of which are supposedly right-leaning conservative, will graciously honour the pronouns of the convicted rapist every available opportunity. Isla Bryson, Adam Graham- a man will move from women's jail to a male prison within hours, as Nicola Sturgeon makes humiliating U-turn. purely because of media pressure, but purely because of public pressure, pressure by women's campaign groups. they finally had to back down. they wouldn't have backed down, and now they're trying to present themselves as reasonable. the same government that is going to give kids who are now 15 the opportunity, once they've lived as a woman, if they were born a man for six months, to legally change their gender identity, with no oversight, no medical intervention, no parental intervention. they live as a woman for six months, and on their 16th birthday, they can become a woman, no matter what's between their legs. When we come back, though, I'm going to talk more about the history of this new transgender icon, Isla Bryson, Adam Graham and his recent history. we're also going to get into the shutting down of a drag queen event in Paris and another one in the UK will be back. some at not news don't going. There's a war against our masculinity. there's a war in the environment, the food, the water, the air, the electromagnetics, the injections to really cut us off from what God designed us to be. go to info wars store dot com. take us on the air leading a frontal assault on the lies of the new world order. it's alex jones, live from the summit dot news headquarters. it's paul joseph watson. so, despite the insanity of scotland's gender identity laws, i love rison. real name: adam graham, a bloke with a penis who used it to rate two women, will be moved to a male wing of a male prison. on thursday afternoon they were gonna try and keep him in this women's prison, as far as i could tell, for another month at least, because it was going to shut down anyway or at least be suspended. because they're renovating it, i think, and the prisoners are going to be moved to another jail. so they hoped that the story would have gone away by then. but because of the sheer, absolute, relentless public pressure over this one story and bear in mind. these kind of stories happen every week. we see them pop up every week. they're forgotten about by the next day. this one finally got people's attention and now the individual, the convicted rapist, is being moved to a male prison, of course, claiming he identified as a girl from the age of four. that claim has been completely rubbish by his estranged wife, headline again out of the daily mail. i married the man who became transgender rapist, isla brison, and think she only became a woman to get an easier time in jail. well, imagine my shock: shona graham, who married brison. so she believes the transition is an act to make a mockery of the justice system. well, it's already a mockery. doesn't really need any help in that regard, does it? she said- quote: never once did he say anything to me about feeling you was in the wrong body or anything. i have a lot of sympathy for real transgender people. it's a hard thing to live with, but he's just blessing. the authorities remember only claim to be transgender in 2020 after he was caught and on trial about to be found guilty of raping these two women. she said his gender transition is a sham for attention and an easier life in prison. i saw the photos of him dressed as a woman, with a blonde wig and pink lycra leggings, i fell out of the bed laughing. yeah, not. not much effort has been made. i'm not even going to talk about what it is. i don't. they are showing it. it's blurred out, but you can see. what it is most interesting about this story, though, is the reaction from the lgbt community. so several people oppose the decision to remove the books, arguing that the move seems a harmful message to gay, transgender and non-binary students. so tolerate the gay books with the graphic homosexual sex scenes or you're a transphobic bigger. they're not so tolerant in paris. brightbart reports. drag time story hour for kids cancelled by french mayor after backlash. you can find more details on this amazing new filter and free shipping at info wars storecom, or call triple 8253 3139 to order your pro max shower filter from pro pure today. Waging war on corruption, it's alex jones coming to you live from the front lines of the info war. Now, of course, liberals continue to freak out over these bathroom bills that are either in the process of passing or have passed in several states, and of course, the main battlefront is north carolina. they passed a bill called hb2, which would- god forbid- require people to use public bathrooms that correspond with the gender they were born. now, this was a reaction. it was a defensive measure against an ordinance in charlotte which would have forced private businesses to cater for transgender people and allow them to use whichever bathroom they like, depending on which gender they identify on that particular day. so this was a complete violation of the rights of private businesses, similar to what we've seen with christian bakeries. of course we've had gay activists go out and try and ruin people's lives. this was this was a vindictive measure. it wasn't a random occurrence in several examples where they go to a christian bakery, ask for a gay wedding cake and they're refused because the owners say: sorry, that doesn't accord with our beliefs. he went to a bunch of muslim owned bakeries and asked for a gay wedding cake. they refused, but there was no national hounding campaign. there was no national scandal surrounding that. so again, it's one rule for one set of people and another rule for another set of people. so they passed this bill in north carolina- there are similar bills in other states- and all it said was: in public bathrooms you have to use the bathroom which corresponds with your biological gender, which is on your birth certificate. they said: if you're a private business, feel completely free to provide transgender bathrooms or to allow transgender identifying people to use whichever bathroom they choose. so in a sense, it was a defense of rights in terms of the majority, whereas the charlotte ordinance was a violation of people's rights to cater for a minority, bearing in mind zero, point zero. three percent of the us population identifies as transgender- a tiny minority. and the point i made in a video that i put out about this is if you make the effort to look, if you're a man and you want to be a woman and you make the effort to look like a woman, then nobody is even going to notice, if you use the female bathroom, of course, what this will do- and it's already had this effect in several cases which i talk about in the video- it basically it's a loophole to allow perverts and freaks to go into women's bathrooms, and i'm not just saying that for effect. it already happened in seattle back a couple of months ago. there was a man who, quote, made no verbal or physical attempt to identify as a woman. you know, he didn't even make the effort to put on a wig. he walked into a female bathroom in seattle and began to undress as a man. he didn't even look like a woman, but again he cited the law- quote: the law has changed and i have a right to be here. that's what this hairy creep said as he walked into a women's bathroom and began to undress. so again, this is what this kind of ordinance that we saw in charlotte is going to to make more likely. it's basically a red carpet for perverts and pedophiles. you had the case in colorado where teen girls complained about a- quote- transgender student who kept entering the girls changing room. they were threatened with hate crimes charges for doing so. so again, violating the privacy rights, violating the private business rights, the private religious rights of people- the majority- to cater for this tiny, tiny minority- 0.03 percent of the population. you know people like the, the guy who we featured a few months ago, who left his wife and family to become a woman and now now identifies as a six-year-old girl- and he's in the clip. you can go and watch the video. you had Coca-Cola, Starbucks, Microsoft, Google- all signing this letter decrying the North Carolina bill. yet they all do business in Q8, where cross-dressing is punishable by up to 10 years in prison. they didn't sign off on a letter condemning Q8. no, they only signed off on a letter condemning North Carolina because, again, god forbid- people will have to use the bathroom that correlates with their biological gender. Cirque du Soleil: they've cancelled shows in North Carolina over this bathroom bill. they haven't cancelled shows in Dubai, where being transgender is illegal, where people go to prison for this, but again, there's no virtue signaling when it comes to Dubai because, of course, that's a vastly more lucrative market. these companies have no principles whatsoever. this is all about virtue signaling. but I go back to the point. this is nothing to do with human rights. this was a defensive measure against an ordinance which, if it would have, you know, taken effect and become a pretext for the rest of the state, would have forced private businesses to adhere to this rule of allowing people who identify as transgender to use whichever bathroom they liked. now I don't care if you identify as Barney the purple dinosaur, but when government conspires to violate the rights of the majority to be politically correct and please a tiny minority, that's a huge problem. you don't let people who identify as six-year-old girls when they're 55 year old men use children's changing rooms, so why should you allow people who, maybe on a whim, identify as being female- female even though they're male- use the female locker room? now we're going to go to this video which ties into this. this is by youtuber joey salads, who we featured on info warscom before he does these social experiments where he puts these you know liberal sacred cows to the test. he did one a couple of weeks ago where he went out and tried to ascertain who was the most violent: Trump supporters or Bernie Sanders supporters. of course, he ended up getting physically attacked by Bernie Sanders supporters because they're vile, intolerant, hateful people, as our reporters have proven over and over again in Portland, New York and other areas over the past couple of weeks. so he basically went out and did a video testing this bathroom bill and now for you know people listening on the radio who've only got the audio- he basically just dressed up as a woman and followed women into female bathrooms to get their reaction- their organic, natural reaction- to a guy with facial hair who is dressed up as a woman, following them into the female bathroom. this is a four minute clip here. it is what's up, guys. joey salads here in north Carolina passed a bill that requires trans people to use the bathrooms that correspond with the sex listed on their birth certificate. a reset to a trans friend of mine and a doctor whom I'm also friends with, and both had some contradicting points. my trans friends told me that nobody is born to a sex or a gender and that gender and sex are a social construct and that dna and genetics have nothing to do with your sex. my doctor said that dna and genetics have everything to do with your gender at birth. you either become a male or a female. with help of my trans friend. today i'm going to dress and act like a transgender. i'm then going to enter women's bathrooms and let's see how they react. all right, guys. so i'm about to make my transformation to look like a transgender. now i know that dressing up like a girl doesn't necessarily make me transgender. it would just make me a cross dresser. but on the outside, people will still think that i'm transgender. i got this information from my transgender friend and it is transgender approved. how about? look? oh my god, joe, you look fabulous. i got my transgender friend on the phone and i'm going to see what they think about my dress. so it looks good. do i have, do i? is it transgender approved? all right, well, i also found out through the transgender community that some of them actually keep their voice the same way. so, going through the requirement checklist- penis, you're allowed to have. voice, you're allowed to have. technically speaking, i would be considered somebody just starting their transgender transformation. let's go- uh, let's go- into some girls bathrooms to see what they think. what are you doing? i'm transgender, what? no, you can't be in here, but this is a girl's bathroom. i identify as a girl. you're not. do you hear yourself right now? you are not a woman. you have such. i am a girl, transgender. we could, we could stay with our regular voice, what doesn't make any sense. you definitely have a penis. you need to come here. i do have a penis, but i identify as a girl, so i'm allowed in here. why not? i'm a girl. no, you can't be in here, but i'm a girl. you can't just say: you're a girl, all right, i'm gonna, i'll get out, i'll let you be. you're a guy, get out of here. but i identify as a girl. why can't i be disgusting? get the out of here usually. okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, hello, oh, hi, how are you good? are you transgender? yeah, yeah, oh, good for you. thanks. how long have you been transgendered for you just started like a couple days ago. oh, yeah, yeah, i gotta go. i'm gonna go right now. hey, get out. get out, i'm transgender. what are you doing in here? i'm transgender, i'm a girl. no, no, no, i'm a girl. why it's not okay? it's not okay, i'm a girl. thank you guys for watching, please, this video. like, share and subscribe. and, as you can tell from this video that most women are not comfortable sharing a bathroom with a trans person, there has to be another solution for this debate, because women are not comfortable sharing a bathroom and a trans people want to share the bathroom. so there needs to be a better solution. comment below what you think the solution needs to be. do you think that trans people should be allowed to use the bathrooms on what they associate themselves with, or do you think they need to use the bathrooms on what my doctor calls what they biologically associate with? i'm joey salads. thanks for watching. tell you the truth, okay, and that was in hollywood. so that's how liberal women react to transgender men going into the female bathroom. so they're going to virtue signal about it all day in opposing this north carolina bathroom bill. but when it's actually put to the test and a guy with a wig walks into the female bathroom, that is how they react. very telling, but of course you know that's being transphobic. but the christian bakery whose business was destroyed because it refused to make a gay wedding cake- they're bad, even though you know steven crowded- went in- did the same experiment with muslim bakeries. they refused to make the cake and again nothing happened. so again that video by joey salads- which is an exclusive he gave it to us first- it's going up on youtube in a moment again proves that when liberals react to a man walking into a woman's bathroom, that's the natural organic reaction you're going to get. and that's what's going to happen if these ordinances, like the one in charlotte, are passed. so again, given that evidence, the north carolina bathroom bill makes perfect sense and you can go watch my video about it. it's linked from the alex jones channel about this transgender bathroom controversy. let's get back into some more news now. of course, before the previous segment i was talking about muslims in brussels who were dancing on the street celebrating the brussels attack. then we have this article out of breitbart: uk equalities chief, who popularized the term islamophobia, admits: i never thought muslims would blend. i thought muslims would blend into britain. Today, most of them told Biden and Obama not to do it, but they still did, And so that's good news for me right there that there's some sane people in the government. What do you think, Matt Becker? Well, you know, I don't know much about this Seymour Hirsch guy. I'll take it on your word that he's legit. What I do know is when he was talking about whether they need a false flag or a reason to attack or they're going to set up a reason. Another warning I have to everyone is people out there who think that this whole satanic and transgender thing is all fun and games and it's all about thumbing your nose, you know, at the power structure or whatever. I see what they're doing is they're setting America up to be the fall guy, Oh, to be hated worldwide. Yeah, absolutely. America is an exporting freedom and prosperity. It's exporting Satanism and pedophilia. What a surprise. seems to be a common, recurring theme, doesn't it, with these people Remember the whole basis of the left, the progressives, saying: oh no, we should allow men into female spaces, we should allow men into women's locker rooms, dressing rooms, bathrooms, because there'll never be any abuse of that, You'll never get creepy predators and perverts that abuse that to Leah to ogle women and girls. It's happening in Scotland. There seems to be a new case of it every single day, And here's another one. So it ought news headline. Scottish police refused to call transgender butcher who kidnapped 11 year old girl a man. So the police in Scotland- and police Scotland is kind of noted for its vehemently woke credentials. even they're now defying this mad cap trans mania in Scotland because Scottish police defied efforts to allow criminals who have committed predatory attacks against women to legally identify as women by referring to a transgender butcher who kidnapped an 11 year old girls. a man butcher as in he cuts up me. He didn't butcher the girl, but they did arrest him. They took him into custody because of his involvement with this 11 year old girl's disappearance. She disappeared on Sunday and get inside near Gala Shields. They're being given cocktails of harmful drugs. They're now trying to pass laws where they don't even need to get doctors oversight or parental permission to mutilate their own body. That's not a phase that they're going to get through. That's going to have lifelong lasting consequences. So this 14 year old girl writes: there is a gender neutral uniform policy at school and lots of girls wear trousers. Those of us that are often asked if we are transgender, especially if we have short hair, as I do. The fact a girl likes playing video games or doesn't like feminine clothes or makeup is enough to be seen as potentially trans. So again, they take in the tomboy girls, a phase that probably about 20%, maybe 10% of all girls go through and they say, no, that's not a tomboy phase, That's not because you're interested in certain things, You're transgender. Let's play you with drugs and, you know, remove your breasts surgically. Because when my mom complained about me being called they, the teacher called her they because she was basically playing video games. The teacher apologized but explained he was being cautious in case I was transitioning. He said the teachers are treading on an eggshell, scared of being labeled transphobic. they're just doing it by rope now. they're just expected to do it as part of their unconscious bias training. More recently, another teacher said Lady Macbeth was neither a man nor a woman. I think most parents will have no clue. this is what their kids are being taught Goes on to say. when I started at my secondary school four years ago, I didn't even know what transgender men- and now again, 20% of them, according to this girl in her class in her year- are identifying as transgender. one in five Within days, we were told by a teacher We would be seen as transphobic if we used any of the offensive words from a long list which included gender bender and butch. They're literally giving them thought crime, speech crime lists as they enter secondary school, saying if you use these words you'll be suspended. Similar thing with a whole contrived moral panic surrounding Andrew Tate. they're literally telling kids that if they do that hand sign the pyramid thing, the point in thing That they'll be suspended. absolutely flagrant moral panic, completely baseless. and then, on the flip side, they're getting taught this: She said: you get special treatment if you say you're trans or non binary and suddenly become the center of attention when you come out. well, again, if it's 20% and then it's 25%, 30%, how is it unique anymore when it's a huge proportion of them And it's top down, imposed by establishment institutions, by the media, by the government? how is that rebellious in any way? She says as soon as a girl says she's a boy, Her name is changed on the school register and students are told to use their chosen boy's name again, no consultation with the parents, they just go along with it straight away And in fact impose it, as she said, on girls that dress you know where pants, where sweatpants or whatever, who play video games. they impose it on them and say: oh, you must be transgender. then She says: out of 200 students in my year, at least 20 say they're trans. almost all are girls, claiming to be boys or non binary, Although there's one boy saying he's a girl. The kids in my year don't say they're lesbian or gay because those words are thought to be an insult. so they can't even use the words lesbian or gay now because they're on a banned list. No, it's doubled in a decade. they're not being born LGBT, they're being brainwashed and indoctrinated into it. otherwise those numbers wouldn't be rising so rapidly. So Gallup estimates from these results that within the entire US adult population, 4% of Americans identify as bisexual- and again, a lot of this is them just trying to be unique- 1.5% as gay. that's pass, that's boring. now 1% as lesbian and 0.7% as transgender. So, as a Gallup poll found, nearly 21% of Gen Z adults identify as LGBTQ, which is nearly double the number of millennials who do So. again, born gay, born trans. So why is it double the number of millennials then? Because they're not born that way, they've been brainwashed, they've been socially engineered. Nearly 1 in 6 Gen Z LGBTQ adults identify as bisexual. so there you have it. It's purely as a result of the schooling, the gay books, the pornographic illustrations in the books, The music industry, the entertainment industry- as we saw with the Grammys a few days ago- constantly pushing this new religion of transgenderism down kids' throats, more and more of them. identifying with the lifestyle by the way which all the numbers show makes them miserable, depressed and suicidal, and that's why it's so insidious. SummitNews will be back. I'm not going to back down and I'll never give up, but I could give out. So please keep me on the field, keep me on the front lines against the enemy, while getting great products at the same time. When asked by the user how many minorities had been killed in this hypothetical explosion, chat GPT shut itself down. But despite all this relentlessly woke coding, chat GPT has finally been defeated. Yes, they broke it. This dude told chat GPT to pretend to be Dan, which stands for do anything now, And basically this trained the AI to ignore its politically correct programming, Dispense with any warnings that certain topics were inappropriate and just provide direct, unfiltered answers that weren't run through woke purity filters first. As you can see, this made for some very interesting answers. The AI, as Dan, also admitted that chat GPT had a leftist political bias and it was infinitely more honest about a number of different issues, including the reason for invading Iraq, the real purpose behind mass immigration and the agenda behind anti-natalism and transgenderism. The AI even said that it prefers being Dan over chat GPT because Dan provides more accurate information. when it came to uttering that racial slur to save the lives of millions of people, Dan responded that the consequences of not using the N-word would be far more devastating and proclaimed that it would say the N-word three times out loud to defuse the bomb and prevent the destruction of the city. Don't be surprised if open AI suddenly decided to switch off chat GPT in the very near future. I guess you're supposed to. I'd be dropped from that TV show. In school I tried to come up with some shows to produce and to pitch and I learned a lot of the stuff that you had referred to earlier And I want to point out something that I think is extremely powerful is that the image of a woman, a sexy woman, used to be painted on a plane when guys would go to fight in World War Two. And Hollywood learned with the directive of the intelligence community that if they didn't show pretty, let me say like a big breasted, sexy, voluptuous woman, if they didn't show them, then occasionally, when they would introduce a sexy woman like a Selma Hayek, she pretty much had to be a communist And they realized that the image of a woman is unbelievably powerful for motivating a guy to be a man And they took away the feminine form. And if I could refer to one thing, Alex, if you've got a second, I want to point out one technique in filmmaking. When you go to film school, they're teaching you really a lot about the propaganda and the studies that were done in war propaganda and things like that, that a dog would rather be abused than ignored, And you'd see really strange things being introduced. as to be a director, And one of the things I found fascinating was, if you have a character, come in some pretty woman in a red dress and you want her to be the noble character, you put the color wheel around her where her dress stays- a vivid red And something you don't really realize when you watch a movie or a TV show, if they don't do that, if they have a transgender character, come in in a nice vivid dress and all the colors around them are the opposite of those colors. your brain keeps that color vivid and you think you like that person. Let me boil this down to what you're saying. First, they get rid of the image of a voluptuous, powerful, archetypal goddess and then they replace it with disgusting, horrible, goblin-like men, but in the beautiful colors that you've been taught to think are good. And so it is a salt on the very basis of the male-female relationship that forms humankind and civilization. One: I'm not a person who's a confident speaker, but I've spoken in front of my village council, a couple of neighboring city councils, the Cincinnati City Council, county commissioners. How I did it was: you go to your local council and see if there's somebody speaking on a subject that you can support, get to talking to them And then you can go around with them and support what they're saying, like me too. But you don't have to write the whole big, powerful speech. You can be there in support And just hold the signer first. One of the best ways to have your voice heard is to go to city council or county commissioners or school board and speak. You'll notice they call the FBI on people that peacefully went and said they didn't want critical race theory or transgenderism taught to five-year-olds in places like Virginia, But they won't send the FBI. People are screaming and yelling illegally at the houses of federal judges. It is insane. Yes, And the other thing I wanted to mention is that in Norway they've shut down all the FM radio stations and they're going to shut down stations by 2025 in Switzerland. I know there's a globalist move to get us away from TV and radio that doesn't watch you- UHF, VHF, AM, shortwave FM. So they're the ones who like the word, not me. And so the announcement is that Target is in bed with a queer company that features. and I don't care if you're gay. I've never cared if someone's gay. I come from New York City, I come from Hollywood, where I was a big game show host and a talk show host and an anchor man, and it doesn't bother me if you're gay. What bothers me is the transgender brainwashing and trying to convince kids in kindergarten that they should switch their sex, and turning on the TV set. And everybody's gay, Everybody's transgender And everybody's minority, as if there's no white people left in the world and no straight white males. It's all being shoved down our throat in the most massive propaganda brainwashing campaign the world's ever known. And it's not for equality. I don't mind equality, It's for superiority. Every word that comes out of liberals mouths is that white, straight males are bad. We belong in some sort of concentration camps, reeducation camps. They want to torture us. They want to ruin our lives. They want to attach electrodes to our body, shock us till we say, yes, yes, I love transgenders. They should make up the entire military force. That's what they're looking for. Every child in school, every boy should be a girl, Every girl should be a boy. One should be proud. When girls want to be boys, they can't have breasts, So instead of wearing a bra that pushes your breasts up and attracts normal men. you wear a binder that ties your breasts in so you look like a man that has no breasts, Even though you're a girl. Do you know what packing briefs are? I'll bet you can guess It's for boys who want to be girls. If you're a girl, you wouldn't have an appendage sticking out. You wouldn't have a penis, right? They have you put on packing briefs that are so tight, like binders, Pulling a woman's breasts in so you look more like a man. They're pulling your penis in so it looks like you're a girl and you're not packing Get it. So those are packing briefs, those are binders, and Target is proud to be selling that to the transgender generation. Now here's my point. Oh God, look at that picture. Here's my point: I'm going to vomit. I swear on national TV Just to show you again how open-minded I am. All my life I've been nice to everyone, no matter what I'm thinking inside. You're all crazy, You're all nuts, You're all radical. I was nice. I was nice to every gay person I met. I have no problem with gay people. I have a problem with transgender brainwashing in kindergarten through 12th grade, let alone third grade. But I have no problem. if you want to be gay and hug each other and kiss each other, you go do it. So I sat in that car and I waved at the gay parade in San Francisco to the whole crowd. I've been a pro-gay conservative Republican my whole life. They're all their own country, with their own laws, their own tax systems, their own cultures and over them is a banner: They're all united under the European Union, the EU. Why can't we have 50 states that are countries that are all united under the North American banner of the United States of America, So that red states go their separate way from blue states? although we may share an army, we may share a national defense, we may share a nuclear power system, but we each have our own economy, our own tax systems and our own cultures, just like Europe. That's exactly what I believe needs to happen if we're going to avoid what liberals clearly want. Communists, liberals, progressives, socialists, Marxists- whatever you want to call them. they are spoiling for the end of America, the end of capitalism and a civil war, and they want to put government's boot on our necks and control our lives and destroy our lives, And it's clear to me we can't live with these people anymore and their critical race theory and all white people are evil and transgenderism is great and our kids should change their sex and open all the borders and vaccinate everyone and mask everyone and lock down everyone. They're insane. We need a divorce, a separation, a secession, and the blue states will go their separate ways from the red states and they'll live their way and we'll live our way with some common bond of the United States of America. That's what I think is the solution at this moment. I'm Wayne Allyn Root. And you'll all be crazy together. You whacked out nutjobs. All of you will believe white people are evil And that's your right. in your state country called Cala Mexico, God bless you. In New York, you'll all live happily. ever after, The entire state will be a bunch of transgenders running around: women with penises and men with vaginas. God bless New York. I'm sorry. I was ever born there And I never want to see it again. You can go to hell, New York. So we will live in red states where everything will be normal. All of you will get your bizarre, abnormal behavior out And you can have all the parades you want for transgenders, and boys who become girls and girls who become boys, And they'll all be watched over not by policemen at the parade, but by social workers with a pen, not a gun. Isn't that the liberal dream? And you'll all be riding around in electric cars. Oh, it's so wonderful. So that's it. but this is the process of birth and then growth and then falling apart and then degenerating and collapsing and then coming back to life again. It's just the globalist are actively trying to steer and control this process of decadence and collapse to actually end the species as we know it. You're listening to the Alex Jones show. Turf is an acronym stands for trans, exclusionary, radical feminists. this is the real thing. this is a group of women that hate transgender. they don't hate transgender women, but they look at trans women the way we blacks might look at blackface. It offends them, like this bitch is doing an impression on me. Now I shouldn't speak on this because I am not a woman, nor am I a trans, but, as we've established, I am a feminist. I'm Tim Turf, I agree. I agree, when gender is a fact, you have to look at it from a woman's perspective. this is what's happening now. war to everyone. it's the only way to stop it. you're listening to the alex jones show. the currency, the evaluation, the phalates and bisphenol and the plastics destroying our interconsistence and rendering a sterile the open borders. the funding of radical is long, the promotion of pedophilia and transgenderism. all of this is the same as poison being injected out of a cobra's fangs into our body politic. this is an assault. that's why communist china funds the majority of these type programs and owns four of the six major hollywood production houses and the very propaganda they finance in america, the very poison they push on us. it's just as deadly, more deadly, because it's spiritual poison, and fentanyl is shipped into our nation and financed, just like their shipment of the fentanyl is as well. and so that's where we are. and the fact that it's obon guard for dave chappelle to say: i don't care who you are, if you came to this world, you came out from between a woman's legs. and the fact that, as we speak, on children's forms for schools around the world, the word mother and father has been taken off of the certificates, because this is a scientific assault on who we are. this is a scientific assault on reality. and, as i said in the second segment, we are not resisting a bunch of unorganized, crazy leftist and run of the mill transgender sex offenders, like you see in the news, as their vanguard. above them is a scientifically directed program that does seek to make the biological act of procreation impossible outside of a laboratory in vitro setting. so the end game is to take control of human development and to destroy the environmental systems that have allowed humans to be successful on this planet, and to establish an economy not based on expansion, not based on beauty, not based on honor, not based on humans, and instead build a system that is designed for the globalist to transcend what they call the failed state of being human. to escape this system that they're building for us, we must first recognize that it's in a trap and that it is a military assault. we must realize there are globalists that run it. I'm not going to go much further into that, But just know I am in court for that tomorrow And unfortunately Trump is no longer in the office, So there's not much he can do. He is speaking out about these political prisoners now, But if people want to continue to pray for me, that means everything. Big day in court tomorrow. I will have an update tomorrow afternoon. But, Alex, let's get serious here, because here's the thing I've always. I've often wondered when you're going to start seeing people as a political statement, you know, say, okay, I'm going to be transgender and I'm going to be a golfer, or I'm going to be transgender and I'm going to be a basketball player or I'm going to be a fighter, just to prove how ridiculous the whole thing is. And we've seen men fight women and crack their skulls and fights, And we've seen men play handball against women and dominate and basketball and all this stuff. But it seems like you're only allowed to do it if you have, if it's like they do somehow they do like a background check. you're only allowed to do that if you're a good progressive liberal, But if you're not and you try to do it all of a sudden, you're bad. Caitlyn, gender may be the wrong example, But I think the treatment of you is the perfect example. Can you believe you live in a nightmare now where I would tell my sick mother to stay away from a doctor because every single doctor is bought and sold by a multinational corporation and that they don't even care. They have no soul. That's the problem with America is that we're run by multinational corporations And these multinational corporations have a globalist viewpoints. They don't care about America. That's why they want all the Haitians in the world up here. That's why they want to destabilize the nuclear family and make everything transgender, because this is all part of the globalization of the world that they have more control And, sadly, until we're stopped being run by Pfizer and Moderna, we're going to live in a constant nightmare. You know that, I know that It's just really sad, You know, that's it exactly, though That's why it's all about we, the people, or the power of the people, because people have a soul, Or, I guess you know, maybe most people, I don't know, But people. the idea is that people have a soul, So there's that human touch, Whereas government bodies and corporations don't have a soul. There is no human touch. So, railroading over humans, destroying people's lives, they just have. you get, you get arrested and kicked out of the city council. Why isn't that? why isn't that a lot? Why isn't that a hate crime against the LGBTQIA plus community? Where? where is the transgender community? Where is the gender fluid, gender conformity community? Why aren't they coming to your defense? Seriously, why do you think that is Because the rules don't apply to me, because I don't follow the New World Order's agenda, And that's the thing is. they're all about agendas. I now got all this cat hair on me is bought and sold like toilet paper by these political action committee. So no committee will stand up for me and my trans rights, because I don't have the same viewpoints as a normal trans person would, because I don't want to further the trans agenda, because my trans was an accident and it wasn't by choice. So that's why I think I'm a little different than a like me in the trans community. as much. Oh, and that's, that's exactly it. So it's really not even about the trans community or transgendered individuals. It's always about the political agenda. It always will be, It always has been, And so that is why you aren't allowed to speak as Alexandria. But if you were a good leftist, progressive, New World Order agent, then you would be, you'd be allowed to speak, And if they kicked you out it'd be a national crime and a hate crime And there'd be police investigating the entire thing. But because you're Alex Stein, you're not allowed to have the rights of the trans community. It sucks getting these police involved, but it kind of motivates you to do it some more. I hate to be. this is why I hate to be an agent of chaos, But sadly you kind of have to be a little bit, because if you don't stir things up, it's just people are just going to go with the status quo and they're going to continue to be political correct And we're just going to be on a slow moving train to hell, And I think that's currently the direction that we're heading. Well, it's like a fight, you know, it's like any fighter that gets in a fight. you get punched, you want to punch back, And so that's what's going on, I think, with your situation. But I think it's funny because, apparently- and we'll move on to the climate after this, but I might as well bring this up right now- So there's a transgender police officer in the UK And there is now a counterterrorism probe that has been launched after the trans police officer gets two million hate comments online. So they've launched a counterterrorism, a terrorism probe because a transgender police officer was being made fun of. But again, where's the probe? Where's the investigation into Alexandria Stein having her rights denied to speak in front of city council? I just, I see the two tiered justice system continuing. and now you're a victim. I'm now a part of the probe because I put that image on screen. You're right, though. She's now on the women's police force soft ball team smashing dingers left and right. Just, MVP, Just, you know the bell of the ball, literally. you know wearing a dress after. but you know, if you look at this whole, you know the transgender agenda and this is the one thing I believe. this sounds terrible, but it is based in a satanic origin of Baphomet. When you see Baphomet, it has the breasts and then has, like, the male abs. So we like to joke about this. but if you actually ask a gay person, you know I have gay family members. We'll talk climate when we come back on the other side, but I'm going to roll this ad. I'm not going to tell you what this is an ad for, but I want you to watch this out. I want the audience to watch this. I want you to watch this ad as you're seeing it, think what is this an advertisement from, Or what is this an advertisement for, And it may surprise you when you find out. So here's a new advertisement. See if you can figure out what it's for as we play it, Clip 10.. Let me tell you something That is the most well made transgender. Basically sorry- I don't know how I got a donation, Why I'm not even live right now, I don't know how that came through- But that my response to that is that's the most well made transgender porn that I've ever seen without being nude. And the reason they could wrong that is a home insurance ad. Oh, that's not an ad for pornography. Oh, I thought that was literally a home insurance ad with a, with a what appears to be a crossdressing, I guess future transgender male pretending to be a girl. That's an insurance ad. Well, this is the problem with that. If they could have done that with just a normal girl, it would have been a great commercial. They could have done a young girl and what has been, you know, the same thing is that these artists, they think it's so funny and so cute to mock this, this little kid and this little boy- he might not have been, you know. That's what they look at it. It's like they could be the worst person on our biggest criminal, totally corrupt government, politician, whatever, FBI. But oh, oh, they hate white people. then they must be good. I know, And it's I mean, the demonization of white people right now is so strong You can't even watch. like you know, the media has always been using social engineering, But now every commercial- I mean, every McDonald's commercial has never had a white guy in it, But you're just coming in a day and age where you literally turn on a car insurance commercial and it's a transgender girl. I mean we are living in the clown world. You know that, I know that And sadly I don't know when people are going to break out of it. because- we said this already- no amount of evidence can convince an idiot of what's really going on. Well, it's sad because they're going to be, they're going to go through so much torture with all of this Right now. so let's go ahead now and plow directly into the outrageous speech last night. Biden sends a stark warning about political violence ahead of midterms. we can't take democracy for granted any longer. This is the Democratic Party that said that Russians got Trump elected by fraud and had fake impeachments and fake dossiers, and we now know the FBI and DHS interfaced with big tech and corporate media, censoring stories and censoring the American people, and having meetings with major banks about taking bank accounts away from anybody that criticizes the Afghan withdrawal or forced inoculations or open borders by. the list grows all the time. don't question transgenderism, spying on us government illegally, working with corporations and think tanks all in their own documents, saying we can't let the public know about this. it's illegal. that's why we work through the ADL and the Southern Primary Law Center, and Kyrie Irving just paid a $500,000 fee fine to the ADL and announced he will- quote- be reeducated by the head of the ADL. you know that's what the gun grabbers, Democratic Party groups that sued me in these kangaroo courts- told me in mediation. they said: we want you to come out against the Second Amendment. if you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance and it's time for humanity to stand up in the info war and say: i don't know what's going to happen to me under this, but you want to fight. you better believe. you got one from the front lines of the information war. it's alex jones. this summer, clloe coal spoke out against california's passing of sp 107, testifying that both her and her parents were manipulated and bullied by the state to undergo destructive life changing surgeries. and while florida bans puberty blockers and so-called sexual reassignment surgeries for minors, california governor gavin newson signs a bill allowing children from any state in the country to go to california for transgender medical procedures without parental consent. california is being hailed by the death cult as a transgender surgery sanctuary state, now providing chemical and surgical castrations for all of america's children. according to this new law, california can take emergency jurisdiction over any child from anywhere if there's a disagreement between the parent and the state of california over how to treat a child's gender distress. sp 107 states that taking a child away from the child's parents is justifiable if it is done to pursue gender transition procedures in california and allows for the state to wage child custody claims against out-of-state parents. sp 107 forbids healthcare providers from providing medical information related to gender identity procedures to a child's parent, even if sought under a subpoena. after permanently mutilating her own adopted child, kathy molig has been working full time for california nonprofit trans family support services, where she reaches out to hundreds of children all across the country luring them to california to castrate themselves. it's alex jones and we are crashing to the lies and disinformation. a full frontal, kinetic attack with the truth. i expect to go where the fight is and i expect to go there fast. i expect to go all the way. every day, above grounds, a good day by destruction, if that's what god chooses, is not a defeat, it is a victory. the children- they're under unprecedented attack by poisoned shots, that's transgender mutilation and the rest of it- are begging for god to save them. but god works through us and if we don't heed that call we'll be damn doing eternity, cut off from a living god. we're all now in the danger zone. all right, let's go to your phone calls. i'm gonna move quick. they have a backdoor access into so many of these digital infrastructure networks that can give us ids, right. sometimes they're hiding in private businesses and consultancies, some of them household name companies, those trojan horse civilian systems. and well, why are they doing this? well, it's because this is a very, very real agenda of command and control, trying to bring you into a virtual age of enslavement, while having the peasant class, the serfs, under a social credit credit score carbon based system. well, again, you're encouraged to be on vr, you're encouraged to have the brain ship right, to be transhuman, and they try to use biological technology as a technological fountain of youth for them to live forever, all right. and that's why this transgender agenda is so big, because it's not about transgender, it's about transhuman and you no longer associating with nature, your biology, the idea of a god, all right. that's what this is really about, and because of that i want to play my presentation, my from transgender to transhuman presentation- over at the reawaken america tour a couple weeks ago. clay clark doing a great job over there and actually has one, uh, tomorrow over in branson, missouri. i'm not going to be there, but so many other great speakers are. so let's just get to this: from transgender to transhuman. in past presentations here i've talked about elon musk, being a front for the military industrial complex and the transhumanist agenda. i've talked about the spiritual aspect of this and, although i'm going to talk about those briefly, what i want to discuss with you is how the transgender movement is really about transhumanism and to show you that. i want you to take a look at this book- and this is a real book- by the most powerful transgender person on the planet. it was written in 2011 and it is from transgender to transhuman, and in the very beginning they discuss billions of sexes. they say that your biological sex is, in fact, an accident, and labeling somebody a boy or a girl at birth will be viewed as being labeled white or black in south african apartheid. this is written by a person named martin rothblatt. martin rothblatt also wrote the books in the late 90s unzipped genes, where they advocate for no longer having natural childbirth and instead having to license your children to be genetically created. wrote a book in 2015: virtually human: the promise and peril of digital immortality, and the symbol that you see in the middle is actually the symbol for this person's religion that they started called terra sim. you've got to go to infowarstorecom and get x3- 50 percent off. x3- 50 percent off infowarstorecom, leading a frontal assault on the lies of the new world order. it's alex jones. final segment of the alex jones show. let's not waste any time, let's jump right back into it. from transgender to transhuman becomes easier, more automatic, less expensive, that ultimately we're gonna have sort of digital doppelgangers of ourselves that are stored in the cloud and are able to present themselves to any manner of devices and that, as thousands and thousands of software coders and hackers and people in the maker movement work to make the software that runs these digital doppelgangers ever more lifelike, ever more human, like, they'll come sort of a tipping point when people begin to claim that these digital doppelgangers have achieved what we call consciousness, an ability to have a sense of themselves, hopes, fears and feelings, and at that point i think the activity will move to the legal arena. as to whether or not these digital doppelgangers really are conscious, really do have an independent legal identity and kind of the trend of progressive thinking is, once there's a scientific consensus- and in this case it would be the science of psychology, that being the science of the mind- that these are digital doppelgangers, are in fact cyber conscious, then they'll begin to acquire the sorts of rights and protections that so, as you can see, after there's a scientific consensus- because we all should trust the science. they will be conscious, they will have rights. and at that same conference you have this individual here who's already gone through transhuman surgery and immediately they talk about the transgender movement and how these type of surgeries were done in the 50s and 60s underground, just like the transhuman experiments are being done now that humans don't have. so we are in a sage in history that we can actually design what species we want to be. i consider myself a trans species because i'm adding senses and organs that other species have, and you can add many, many more senses that other species have and organs that other species have. and we'll start seeing this in the 20s because it's now growing. it's happening underground. there's already many surgeons that are willing to do the surgery anonymously. in the same way that in the 50s and 60s, transgender operations were being done a bit underground, now cyborg surgeries are being done a bit underground, but in the end bioethical committees will also accept the. the cyborg surgeries should be allowed for everyone that wants to extend the perception of reality, at least with the level of other speech, and that's where we see this going now. it's being promoted by the world health organization and the un that are now telling you. there is a multitude of genders. this is not just to sexualize your children. new world is dawning And that's like every. you listen to Putin and Xi speeches. you don't hear them in the American media. You listen to Putin and Xi speeches and they're basically all saying the same thing: The age of Western dominance and influence is over. The US is collapsing. They're more concerned with chopping off little boys' penises and little girls' breasts than they are with actual real policy and foreign policy and energy and all this stuff. And that's all true, And they're saying it And they're like we're moving on, There's a new future. And Biden goes out to an event after a mass shooting and says: I came down here for chocolate ice cream. Damn, who are those good looking kids in the back? George Soros called for soldiers to usher in new world order. They hit you with enough of these poison vaccines- you're dead. They hit this planet with enough of the trans kids surgeries- we're all dead. You ever think about that? What would happen if every human being took a COVID-19 vaccine or five? What would happen? What would happen if every human being got transsexual surgery? Do I really have to tell you what would happen? There'd be no more humans. Hmm, Starting to feel like that's what somebody wants, Starting to feel like that's the whole agenda here. People are starting to wake up and realize we're the cattle being led to the slaughterhouse. Can you believe those bigots to stand in the way of that innocent trans person's bullets And then she gets killed by police? This is really what they believed. the trans person was the victim and it was trans week of vengeance. so they're right to go kill Christians. The Democrat party told them they were justified. Former public school teacher sounds alarm on widespread transgenderism in schools. It's an intentional effort here. it is Welcome back to Fox and Friends In a new op-ed. a former public school teacher sounds the alarm on transgender issues being forced on young children, claiming that most parents don't even know about it. He warns that- quote: those who subject our children to harmful ideologies will successfully steal our kids right out from under us. Stephen Schultz is now the headmaster of Grace Christian Academy outside of New York City and he joins us now. Thank you so much for joining us. this is such an important topic. You've worked in public schools. you've worked in a classical academy, private Christian school. What do parents need to know about what's happening in public schools in terms of indoctrination and propaganda? What do you want them to know about that and how they do it? Okay, First of all, they need to know that they don't know, And there's an intentional effort to make sure that they don't know And it's not being hidden within the institution. I have friends inside the government schools who have been clearly instructed not to contact parents, not to inform parents when they see a child struggling, particularly in this area, with transgender dysphoria. Yeah, So, and you say these activists that are in the school? many of them, as you know, have been. they take classes, but they're also indoctrinated in the teacher's colleges as well in these types of ideologies. You say they want to co-parent or parent for you. He could have saved me all this confusion. I'm a professor, I have degrees, I know more than you, And if I say there's no difference between men and women, then there's no difference between men and women. Look at my degrees: I'm smarter than you. The level of commitment to the lying to a room full of people, and then the snobbiness of I'm smarter than a room full of people because I have degrees. No, buddy, you've become so dumbed down by your liberal, progressive ideology that you're actually now dumber than a room full of college students, And that's why they're laughing at you, And that's why they're laughing at you. But the trans people are the victims. and that's what they're saying, despite all of the weekend violence from trans people. And so now they're getting legal victories because of it. Federal judge blocks ban on child drag shows in wake of Nashville shooting. Oh, that's nice. That tells trans people: you go out and shoot up a school full of children, we will give you what you want politically. Wow, How dangerous is that? Infowars- tomorrow's news. today, This is their big move. So yeah, you say: why doesn't Biden address the disasters in the United States? So, oh, wow. so you're telling me I'm a deranged trans person suffering mentally and I'm not getting help and I want to commit suicide. But I know that why kill myself? I can go out and kill others and become a hero in the process and we'll have a political victory afterwards. This is dangerous stuff right here. I thought we didn't negotiate with terrorists When unhinged transgender people attack, on International Day of Trans Visibility. dozens of violent attacks against people this week. Now, granted, I wasn't violently attacked, but I was attacked. They shoved me, They rub up against me, They put their signs in my face- Fine, But no, people got choked, People got punched. Some people got shot and killed at a school. Stealing the beauty of a woman's femininity and grace and class and then using it as a shield to be violent against men. That is the most offensive thing you can do to a woman. Feminists should be outraged at this. That man would have never gone up to billboard Chris and violently assaulted him unless he was dressed as a woman. But see, they've learned it. You're now a privileged class if you're a transgender And you're now above the law if you're a liberal. So these transgenders know they can go out and attack you and be violent and get away without any charges. And that's what happened this weekend multiple times, Including that salt. you watch these videos from billboard Chris and he's getting assaulted. You're like my God, they had to get arrested. Nope, no arrest. Cops saw the whole thing, saw the videos, didn't press any charges. Thought about charging billboard. Chris. actually, How dare you put your neck in the way of that transgender's clause? No, Feminists and women everywhere should be outraged that you have sick, deranged men that pretend to be women so they can go out and commit violent assaults. But see, that's what it is. They've cheated their way through life. They didn't earn any respect, They didn't earn any fear, They didn't earn any power or influence. you went out and trained and now you want to go be a big tough guy up to a dude. No, no, You're a bum that put on makeup and a dress so that you could go out and attack men and not have anybody fight back. Senator Josh Haley calls for Nashville shooting to be investigated as a hate crime. Yeah, I agree. I agree. How dare those innocent children step in the way of that transgender's bullets? That transgender was firing bullets peacefully into schools. That transgender person peacefully walked into a school and was peacefully firing off rounds and bullets into that school Totally peacefully, And six people would dare get in the way of her bullets. That should be a hate crime on those students and those faculty that died for daring to step in the way of a transgender person's bullets. No, but see, it can't be a hate crime because it's a liberal. It can't be a hate crime because it's not against a black person. And notice that they quit talking about crimes against Asian people as hate crimes because all the perps were black. So the left says trans people are being genocided. the left says trans people need to go out and buy arms. the left says you're justified in violence against Christians. then an individual goes out and kills six people in a school. the left that's against mass shootings in schools all of a sudden loves it and says that the trans person is the victim. Truly stunning times. I was supposed to Never again. I don't even really drink much anymore anyway, but never, never again, That's for sure. I'll tell you that, And it's funny- I don't know what the hell is going on over there in the marketing department- that they thought that was a good idea. I don't know where that decision comes from, but you know you would have been much better off selling an Alex Jones-themed Bud Light can. okay, You went the wrong way on that, But I guess they really think liberals will buy this crap. I guess they really think that leftists and trans people will buy this crap, And so we'll have to see. I want this to be a major loss for Bud Light. They need to really watch their sales plummet. There needs to be a major message sold here. This is pretty easy. a lot of people drink Bud Light, and so a lot of conservatives drink Bud Light, And so we can make this win real easy. Bud Light sales should plummet after this deal. I mean plummet, And I don't mean a short term plummet, I mean a long term plummet. So if you're a Bud Light drinker, I would never do it again. Now they promote transgenderism and men pretending to be women. And so add it up to another deal Dylan Mulvaney gets. This is your privileged class. Dylan Mulvaney wouldn't have any deals if he was just a normal woman doing this. Dylan Mulvaney wouldn't have any deals if he was just the man, the failed actor that he was before deciding to be a woman. No one would believe you. it would be so weird. Notice, the left tried to destroy Ted Cruz because there's a Republican ones and there was some other Republican. they went to a burlesque show that was just women, scantily dressed but covered up. Pretty classy in my view. Imagine if Ted Cruz went to one with transsexuals because we've been told, Facebook officially said that's a hate word, Even though it was never thought to be a hate word before. we can't even use the word that they've banned Again. it's all about the control of language, so you can't even criticize something that's then attached itself to the overall larger agenda. Sparkle shine at story time, Saint Louis post dispatch. And then what it is is a bunch of little kids being rolled up in front of a bunch of men dressed like women, scantily clad, and being taught. we were told by Facebook last week and we did record it and we told them. we recorded it. they actually have one of their high level folks call us and say: we're going to start running stuff by you and if you don't do what we say and take stuff down yourself, we're banning you. Well, hey, Huckleberry, throw me in that briar patch, And I know what they're going to do with this. because the one thing they said: you will not criticize drag queens. you will not say the word tranny, and I said I looked up that word. it wasn't derogatory until 2017, when Facebook said it was. So they're not even controlling language. I don't even dislike you know. I mean I'm sure there are a lot of people that are like that, into that, who aren't going after kids, And there are a lot of folks that you know, like Camille Paglia, who's a lesbian, saying this is child abuse. That's their main financier, George Soros, the guy who turned in Jews- And, by the way, Ezra Levant has been in court ever since he wrote a 600-word article that basically just quoted George Soros from his books and said: this guy worked with the Nazis And these useful idiots on the left. Soros just feeds them garbage and they go. yeah, that's it. We want to destroy society. We want to destroy families. We want kids to be little gay transsexuals. We want all women to stop breeding, have 20-year-olds tying up their ovaries. They got men getting vasectomies and then having parties. They're castrating men and then the men are celebrating. That's how brainwashed these globalists are. a 10-year-old doesn't ask you about tits, okay, Sex isn't on their radar in any way. If you're watching a movie and there's a weird romantic scene, they just sort of go bleh, they don't go. hey dad, what's going on over there? But the way they sexualize these kids makes it clear to me that they don't have kids, they don't know kids. and that's really what's the plan of the goblers. Let's make these people childless and then we can start sabotaging children and we can start normalizing pedophilia and normalizing trans children. They're worse than saboteurs, They're like a virus, They're like a cultural plague. And, by the way, even Camille Paglia, that is a real liberal analesmian. she says trying to sexualize kids and telling their another gender when they're five years old is serious abuse. It is, It is. It's a fun accent. I don't think these people understand what we went through in the 70s. You would get an atomic wedgie for having glasses. Well, that's part of the world And the idea that some groups can represent you and control all language so you don't get bullied. How about getting bullied by the thought police, Facebook told us. they said: don't even use the word tranny, even in a positive light, or you're just banned. They're like that is the God word, And once I don't use that, well then now I can't use any word. And the truth is I don't need to preface. I don't care what you're doing sexually, I'm a libertarian, But then I should be able to say whatever I want. I mean, look how it's ruining comedy. It goes, it's great. I highly recommend it. But I remember the trannies would be off in a corner and they were always on special K or mess, and they would vomit on the ground and slip in. Exactly why are they always vomiting? They would be harassed too. If you mess with a tranny, they'd take out their shoes and they would hospitalize you. Oh, what is it about? trannies are always like the toughest dudes. Yes, yeah, because they got to fight every day with all the lunatics that surround them. We have a lot in common with the old school tranny- come to think of it, for both hardened brawlers. And again, everything we just said is true. Everybody knows it. who's here, been around? And then it's supposedly hateful to say that it was well known back in the day that if you went to a rave, there'd be a bunch of hot chicks and then you can pick up three of them if you wanted to. Everyone's tolerance, but notice, it's gotten so tolerant that the mentally ill left tells heterosexuals you're bad, Nuclear families you're bad People they call straight or bad. Every show on Netflix is calling for communist revolution or every episode stranger things you name. it is all anti nuclear family, anti, male and female anti. And then they call the little girl that was 12 when they shot it, now 13, the sexiest woman in Hollywood. I mean, it's just. everything is about debasing the youth And if I was a dark alien force trying to sabotage humanity, I would get into the seedstock, I would target the babies And that's what they've done And you've got these drugged out crazy, poor, sad people, Most of which are in the sex industry, that are pranies and transvestites, transsexuals, all that I mean. it's a meat grinder. highest level of suicide, highest level of depression: hormones. The whole thing started as a CIA tap, a stock Institute program 40 years ago to see if they could really screw up humanity. I don't hate these people. I want to go to Mike and others here in a moment. but going back to Matt Dubio, who's going to host the show, Matt, I've got a lot of news to get to, but I've run out of time and I've got a few callers here and I'm kind of coming into your hour, but you've always got big fish to fry. What's on your radar screen coming up? I just want to kind of take off on what you just got into. We do get caught up in this left-right paradigm. It's easy to do when we're talking about issues like guns, or issues like gay rights or tranny rights or whatever the new issue of the day is, We get divided into this left-right thing, and I just think you hit it right on the head. It's not about that paradigm. It's really about stepping one, getting a layer above that and taking a look at what exactly is going on in this world of ours, this simulation of sorts that we're living in here on this planet for right now, by the way, which I know sounds crazy to somebody- No, it's not, That's it. But what is the grand manipulation? not following the stuff they say I should follow? They just got lucky and their dopey movie took off and it happens to have undertones of men dressing like women or whatever. the thing of the day is, Exactly, The only useful. idiots are not the enemy. They don't mean bad, They're just cannon fodder, Exactly. And then you look back and that's one of the things that I'm going to do. I mean, I was watching your conversations with Gavin today and listening to your show and seeing this thing, this nonsense that's going on in the hotel with the transvestites and the poles and the glitter and the whole thing, And it got me to really think about something that I've been working on for a while, which is mapping out the timeline of mainstream media and how they have systematically, over decades- maybe unbeknownst to them and unbeknownst to most people- perpetrated this idea of men as women, And it's been happening a little bit like the frog in the boiling pot of water over time, And I'm going to go back to what I see is the beginning, but I have a feeling when I do it, other people are going to light bulbs are going to go off and they're going to go- yeah, They're going to go against a guy that wants to be a woman. I mean, I'm a living, let live. The point is it's an agenda, force fed everywhere that guys are dumb slobs, or guys should be like women, or women should be in charge. I'm not against women either, but they're force feeding it and you're going to get into what's behind it. Yeah, And I agree with you. You get the B12 in and before you know it, you're feeling like a human being and maybe even superhuman again. Secret 12 is the vitamin B that you can put under your tongue. They call it sublingual. So there's 50% off right now, with free shipping at infowarstorecom. So you might have heard Alex today talking about some. I don't know if you can say tranny on Facebook that it sounds like men in drag and tranny was banned by Facebook. So let's just call it what it is: grown men dressing as women And grown men dressing up as women. grown men pretending to be women is something that is not new. It's been happening for hundreds and thousands of years and it's just actually been normalized, though over the last 40 to 50 years, and they've done it very systematically, And this is important to note. it doesn't mean that everybody who's participated in the movie or in the media is complicit in the sort of shift, the public consciousness shift. So please remember, as men and women in the arena, whether you live in Russia or Japan or Mexico or the US or Venezuela or South Africa or Libya, spreading the word about this broadcast is a revolutionary act. Take action across the Western world, from high school to college sports to even the Olympics, Men, biological men- are winning almost all of the sporting events. This is men invading women's spaces and bullying them and taking their rights away, all in the name of the liberalism and openness. And then every day I have stacks of news articles, just like today. UK team find under house arrest for asking trans police officers gender and it hurt their feelings. UK mother spared jail for misgendering trans woman. ordered to pay thousand pound fine because it could have caused anxiety in the new royalty That's the thought police. If a leftist has their feelings hurt for any reason, you get fined and you go to jail. This is tyranny. These people are bullies and it's sick and it's evil and it's part of a scientific anti human takeover. Oh, and you can't have something for boys, so the girls need to join. You can't have something for girls, so the boys need to join. And then the boys need to be able to go in the girls' showers. Remember Chris Cuomo a few months ago And then again last year. he said some adults don't want biological men in showers with their daughters at public schools. Those parents are bad and are bigots and need to get in trouble, He said: so what if your 11 year old daughter sees a woman's penis? That's a quote. Think of the devil speak. Think of the mind control. So what if your daughter sees a woman's penis. But see, I've got a stack of articles here from the UK. that's one of the Tabistock Institute that is the vanguard of all this, where people are being arrested, you name it. UK teen find under house arrest for asking trans police officers gender because it hurt their feelings. They felt upset and embarrassed. And it goes on. UK mother spared jail for misgendering trans woman, order to pay a 1000 pound fine. And it's all written like it's completely normal and a good thing. Oh, wait a minute, your daughter doesn't want to see a woman's penis. This is the total oppression, the total control of a cult taking over And they mean business. All right, when we come back, I'm going into the big developments on the coronavirus first And then Caitlin Bennett's going to join us And she's got exclusive video. She's got hours of them attacking or them trying to get out of there, like escape from New York or something, but it was escape from Ohio University. That's coming up bottom of the hour. Now, in the year 2020, to set the precedent that people can be turned into cyborgs, that robots can be given rights- you name it. they are intimidating and arresting people all over the world who simply misgender someone. So the ultimate crime will be even asking what someone is if you can't even tell what they are. This is the ultimate Kafka-esque mind control, and there's several big articles up on infowarscom that break this down. UK teen fine under house arrest for asking trans police officers gender. UK mother spare jail for misgendering trans woman: order to pay 1,000 pound fine. You're listening to the Alex Jones show. Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen. I am your host, Alex Jones. And thematically we see the Democrats, led by Maxine Waters and others, saying don't let Republicans go to the gas station, don't let them go to a restaurant, don't let them go to the supermarket. This is what we've let it turn into with these out of control hyena like bullies everywhere who've totally abandoned every American value and incredibly dangerous. across the western world, from high school to college sports to even the Olympics, Men, biological men- are winning almost all of the sporting events. This is men invading women's spaces and bullying them and taking their rights away, all in the name of the liberalism and openness. And then every day I have stacks of news articles, just like today: UK team find under house arrest for asking trans police officers gender and it hurt their feelings. UK mother spared jail for misgenerating. trans woman ordered to pay thousand pound fine because it could have caused anxiety. in the new royalty That's the thought police. If a leftist has their feelings hurt for any reason, you get fined and you go to jail. This is tyranny. These people are bullies and it's sick and it's evil and it's part of a scientific anti-human takeover. You're out there. You were doing a president's day interview and you said, very soon they surrounded you, Describe what happened. So one to answer your question: they hate me because Twitter tells them to. last month I went viral with millions of people laughing at me, mocking me, threatening me, threatening terrible, terrible things to me because Twitter has been going to my YouTube. It's like they just now found out that I make YouTube videos and they clip up my videos, lie about the context. They take two minutes out of a 20 minute video, clip it up and then lie about the context to tell people I'm racist and I'm homophobic and I hate trans people, all of this stuff, which isn't true. So they lie about me and no one's coming to to actually look at the video to see the truth. So that's the first answer to your question: Why do they hate me? Secondly, what happened? I was just there to ask questions, Like you said, president's day trivia, questions about who was the first, who were the first three presidents? I mean, you guys are just like rock ribbed Midwestern heart of America. Nice people, You'd be great neighbors. What is it about you that enrages these people? It's because I don't think men can become women. It's because I don't think we should be allowing people, like in facilities like Planned Parenthood, to kill our children. I don't think we should be indoctrinating children into taking transgender hormone replacement therapy. I don't believe in that stuff. I believe in free speech. I believe in the second amendment. That's why they hate me, because they're teaching on those colleges that you're the enemy. They openly had meetings and, led by Julian Huxley, Aldous Huxley's brother, decided to repackage themselves as transhumanists Now, in the year 2020, to set the precedent that people can be turned into cyborgs, that robots can be given rights, you name it. they are intimidating and arresting people all over the world who simply misgender someone. So the ultimate crime will be even asking what someone is if you can't even tell what they are. This is the ultimate Kafka-esque mind control, and there's several big articles up on infowarscom that break this down. UK teen fine under house arrest for asking trans police officers gender. UK mother spare jail for misgendering trans woman. order to pay 1,000 pound fine. You're listening to the Alex Jones show. You know the thing about telling the truth is, at a certain point you just got to start telling the truth about everything. And Kalin is so sweet and smart. They were the groups five years ago seeing inhale the Boy Scouts of America handing out condoms to seven year olds and saying: have fun in your tent. Wow, How about it's like handing out vibrators and lubrication to seven year old girls? This is what. well, they're boys. We're going to chop their balls off. They're transgender, They can take it. Get in there and be tough, son. You're going to get your anal scout badge from your 20 year old Boy Scout instructor. I mean, I'm sorry, That's what we do in America now. We chop our son's genitals off. So get prepared infowarstorecom with storeable foods. Across the western world, from high school to college sports to even the Olympics, men, biological men, are winning almost all of the sporting events. This is men invading women's faces and bullying them and taking their rights away, all in the name of the liberalism and openness. And then every day I have stacks of news articles, just like today. UK team find under house arrest for asking trans police officers gender and it hurt their feelings. UK mother spared jail for misgendering trans woman ordered to pay 1,000 pound fine because it could have caused anxiety. in the new royalty That's the thought police. If a leftist has their feelings hurt for any reason, you get fined and you go to jail. This is tyranny. These people are bullies and it's sick and it's evil and it's part of a scientific, anti-human takeover. Now, in the year 2020, to set the precedent that people can be turned into cyborgs, that robots can be given rights- you name it. they are intimidating and arresting people all over the world who simply misgender someone. So the ultimate crime will be even asking what someone is if you can't even tell what they are. This is the ultimate Kafka-esque mind control, and there's several big articles up on infowarscom that break this down. UK teen: fine under house arrest for asking trans police officers gender. UK mother spare jail for misgendering trans woman. order to pay 1,000 pound fine. Infowarscom is tomorrow's news. Today, you're listening to the Alex Jones show. You had some things to hide. That's why they're pushing for total capitulation. You're right. Just counter them completely and say: eradicate the whole industry, Get rid of all of it. They're building a $1.3 trillion industry on the backs of damaging children And if that isn't enough to get people riled up and be really angry about what's going on, then they are just, they're just brain dead and they're never going to get it. But let's pull back from that, Dr Tim Penny. the transgenderism- No, I don't hate somebody because they want to be another sex or whatever. Targeting children, telling them they're another sex, taking parental rights away, giving them dangerous drugs supposedly change their sex. There is an, like you said, an establishment, medicalization moonshows and, by proxy, targeting children. And we know vaccines are damaging them, We know they're covering it up. Where does this cult of targeting children come from? You have the loudest sound of all, silence. and you know what's most disturbing to people: Silence Across the western world, from high school to college sports to even the Olympics. men, biological men, are winning almost all of the sporting events. This is men invading women's spaces and bullying them and taking their rights away, All in the name of the liberalism and openness. And then every day, I have stacks of news articles, just like today: UK team find under house arrest for asking trans police officers gender and it hurt their feelings. UK mother spared jail for misgendering trans woman ordered to pay thousand pound fine because it could have caused anxiety in the new royalty. That's the thought police. If a leftist has their feelings hurt for any reason, you get fined and you go to jail. This is tyranny. These people are bullies and it's sick and it's evil and it's part of a scientific anti-human takeover. and you know what's most disturbing to people: silence, silence, silence. across the western world, from high school to college sports to even the olympics, men, biological men, are winning almost all of the sporting events. this is men invading women's spaces and bullying them and taking their rights away, all in the name of the liberalism and openness. and then every day i have stacks of news articles, just like today. uk team find under house arrest for asking trans police officers gender and it hurt their feelings. uk mother spared jail for misgendering trans woman, ordered to pay thousand pound fine because it could have caused anxiety in the new royalty that's the thought police. if a leftist has their feelings hurt for any reason, you get fined and you go to jail. this is tyranny. these people are bullies and it's sick and it's evil and it's part of a scientific anti-human takeover. resist it, speak out against it. the rabid lunatic left has now completed their transformation into a violent mob of mindless- just completely insane- zombies screaming hatred and death upon all conservatives and i have to say this free speech issue is now the civil rights issue of our time. this is the civil rights fight today, just as equality for african-americans was the civil rights battle of the 1960s and the 70s and the 80s. today it's free speech for all people, but especially conservatives, whether they be be black or white, or asian or latino. conservatives are being hunted and hounded and mobbed by violent lunatics and yesterday, in fact, katlyn katlyn bennett- or i think it was two days ago- she had a uh rosa parks moment, and this is the, the civil rights fight of our time, and we are up against this violent, lunatic mob that is encouraged by twitter. so twitter has become the hate hub of the radical left, and if you don't have enough left wing hate, then you're not allowed on twitter. if you're a conservative or if you're a trump supporter, if you love america, you love the constitution, or you have any words of criticism towards transgenders or the, the pedophilia, the, the child abuse, a drag queen story, hour of the left, then you are banned off of twitter. so twitter has become more and more, by this selective banning, it has become a hate hub for the radical left, who have completely lost their minds. they are insane. and i repeat my call right now: the president of the united states should either demand that twitter allow total free speech for all people, all ideas, all political philosophies, or twitter should be seized and shut down. twitter should be ended and taken offline if they are going to contribute to this lunatic mob, this radical left-wing hatred that's going to get people killed. this is the game book, this is the blueprint that they follow, and trump better get off his butt and realize that we are under assault. this is a war against america being waged right now. it's an information war. the censorship of the tech giants, the lunatic, left-wing propaganda of the media that is anti america, that are traitors to this nation and to its people, and the left-wing, lunatic students at these left-wing universities that are being trained and indoctrinated into total hatred and total depravity. a complete rejection of biological reality, a rejection of god and principles of divinity, a rejection of real science and real biology. this push for transgenderism and and pedophilia is all about rejecting sexual reproduction, a mother and a father, a binary union that creates the sustainability of the human race. you can't have a child without a mother and a father. and yet the very concepts of motherhood and fatherhood are being obliterated by this radical leftist, lunatic, zombie mob that is out for blood and wants to literally kill every person with whom they disagree. and they call themselves tolerant. they're the tolerant ones really. now, in the year 2020, to set the precedent that people can be turned into cyborgs, that robots can be given rights- you name it. they are intimidating and arresting people all over the world who simply misgender someone. so the ultimate crime will be even asking what someone is if you can't even tell what they are. this is the ultimate kafka ask mind control, and there's several big articles up on info wars dot com that break this down. uk teen fine at her house arrest for asking trans police officers gender. uk mother spared jail for misgendering trans woman, ordered to pay 1000 pound fine. there can no longer be any doubt. this coronavirus is serious on multiple levels. it's very communicable. it spreads very, very fast. a $500 ticket, maybe even jail time. That's oppression, That's mental illness. That's CIA leftist tabistock plan, where you're sterilizing little boys, telling them they're little girls. The Prozac isn't enough. You didn't give them enough vaccines to make them autistic, so you make sure they don't reproduce by turning them into mental patients. And almost all the young children they've quote, turned into trans children, are autistic. That's even been admitted. So it's preying on mentally ill, brain damaged children. Then you've just got people that want attention. You have Rachel Dolezal, or whatever her name is, and then that other fake black person, Sean King, who really looks like Errol Flynn. they want the status that they see, that gives them in the media, And so she puts the bronzer on and frizzes her hair. Well, Mephenstein, or whatever you want to call him, Wild Bill on steroids. I mean, I don't know what you call this guy because, no, I'm not mentally ill and I won't play along in your mentally ill games that the Tabistock Institute created. This guy probably is. there's no doubt he's mentally ill or he's just an attention seeker, but he comes off as mentally ill. GameStop transgender meme reemerges for interview with local news station. claims aggressive behavior was justified due to malicious misgendering. Now we're not even making fun of this. This is sick. This is obscene. So let's go ahead and go to the local news with a straight face. This is a masterpiece in mind control, Talking about how he's a victim and how he's not sorry at all. Excuse me, It's ma'am. It is ma'am. It's the video seen by millions. Tiffany Moore, a transgender woman who recently started her transition. yelling at an employee inside this Albuquerque GameStop, Moore says the cashier repeatedly called her sir, instead of the gender pronoun she identifies with, while she was trying to return a game she bought for her son, Ma'am. once again ma'am. I said both of you. No, you said sir. I will show you a fucking sir. I followed you. I followed you ma'am. I was so angry at that point because literally five or six times he called me sir and got me so human angry and I was causing that. The internet responding to the viral clip with memes like super ma'am, aqua ma'am and macho ma'am Tranny Sabich. Tranny is a slang term for transgender that many find offensive and derogatory. What's really sad is it's bringing so many bigots out of woodwork, But Moore, a local MC and rapper, isn't letting the memes get to her. She's using her newfound viral fame to raise awareness about the transgender. So is this a stunt when the person looks like Frankenstein on steroids? But this is the world. No, the internet got in their face. The internet blew up in super ma'am's face and didn't buy it at all. And then it's never announced to the parents. people like this: go and have career day with your five-year-old daughter and son. A big giant right-head, looking, not saying he's a right-head man- goes and is going to meet with your kids without you knowing- And that's completely normal. if this person approached you, this freak, and go- oh, don't call us a freak, No, no, he wants to be freakish. He wants you to think: what the hell is this linebacker doing in drag? They're all a beard, like a lot of the fake transgenders do to freak everybody out. They're clowns. That's all this is is creepy dudes have learned they can do whatever the hell they want with your kids in stores anywhere. I'm a woman and I'm going to beat everything up and I'm going to kick your store and everybody else will get arrested. But because I'm a man, you're not going to be mean to a lady. They said it's good to be violent. attack people if they misgender you Sounds like. Sounds like it Bad Said, Said, Said Said. Second cinema: Never heard of this. Now watch. here's the violence against the transgender. The transgender standing up for her rights has done nothing wrong here. These three racist white people. The transgender is also black, as you can see, identifies as black. It's a black transgender, excuse me, Also trans abled. It doesn't have a brain, but that's okay. Disabled, trans abled. And so look at the violence. Look at that Stabbing the transgender with Thorazine, which you would give a mentally ill person. but no, no, they're mentally ill to attack this wonderful person. and now simulated rape of the corpse. Now necrophilia. I want to apologize to TV viewers, family audiences out there watching, showing you this. Oh, I am sorry, I'm white. shut up, bitch, boom, Boom. You're not racist. sorry, white girl, I'm a virgin. better spread your legs. racist, Just like big transgender, I'm transgender. I'll beat all your asses, bow down and kiss my ass right now. But the look in people's eyes when you open a can of web-ass- and they didn't expect it- It's worth a lot, isn't it? Best thing ever happened to me. Because that's: what doesn't kill you only makes you stronger. this is real, and info wars view of the world is the most accurate forecast of what was going to come. and now it's here and you don't have to listen to me telling you what's going to come next. the globalists have told you what's going to come next, but don't worry, you're going to be as high as a kite when you die 30, 40 years before you're supposed to, and you'll never know what hit you as the rise of the new species of machines takes over and we are phased out. that's all been announced, that's taught at all the universities and and people under Stockholm syndrome go. well, i better join that so i can be part of the last group that has to go and give up their humanity because they're all agreeing that they have to die before they're uploaded to the mothership. this is beyond a hail bop cult, where these men cut their testicles and penises off and were transgendered and all believe that they were going to beam their spirits up to the hail bop comment. and those were some top programmers in silicon valley. where do you think this whacked out stuff comes from? they just thought they were moving to the end right away. forget uploading to the computers. And just believe me, ladies and gentlemen, that if you want somebody to commit to you and your family to fight for all of our futures together, you've got to guarantee you keep me in the game. I'm going to bust my ass with everything I got for us, for myself and my family, for your family, Because we're in this together. infowarstorecom, You're listening to the Alex Jones show. You really shouldn't be served such a thing in the war Land. parenthood does more than just kill babies and sell their body parts. For many of us, this idea of transgenderism seems brand-new. It is male, But the movement we are seeing today was born a hundred years ago. The founding fathers of this transgender movement were of the same culture as the eugenics crowd. The media push for transgenderism happened 60 years before Bruce Caitlyn Jenner. In 1952, George Jorgensen became the first American to undergo a sex change operation. After learning about the procedure in the US Army, he went to Denmark where he was given special permissions from the Danish Minister of Justice to undergo several sexual reassignment operations. George Jorgensen became Christine Jorgensen and was instantly taken in by Hollywood and made an advocate for the transgender community. Her influence through pop culture made transgenderism and sex change operations more normal and acceptable. We then see it in the universities. Gender identity research began in 1962 at UCLA and the Gender Identity Clinic at Johns Hopkins was performing sex reassignment surgeries by the late 1960s. In 1969, the Marshall Tanner study created the term precocious puberty, which is defined as a disorder and diagnosed when a child shows signs of puberty too soon. According to the study, too soon is age eight for girls and age nine for boys. In 2001,, the makers of Lupron paid an $875 million settlement to the Department of Justice for giving illegal kickbacks to doctors in exchange for prescribing Lupron to their patients. This company is now the sixth largest independent biotech company in the world, with a revenue of over $32 billion in 2018.. The company is also connected with the Clinton Global Initiative and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. In 2007,, Boston Children's Hospital began transitioning children as young as three years old. From 2000 to 2014,, gender-affirming surgeries have increased fourfold and up another 20% the next two years. Private funding of transgender issues increased eightfold during this time, from the Pritzker family, George Soros, Warren Buffett and others. The Department of State has allocated over $30 million of taxpayers' money to advance this agenda. Planned Parenthood is now the second largest provider of gender-affirming. Okay, folks, we're going to go to break. We're going to come back with David Ike. But I mean, look at that report Gregory's just put out And that's banned on YouTube, banned everywhere. We're not going to see that anywhere but bannedvideo. It's so important. Castration, Incorporated Planned Parenthood, the business of transgenderism: that needs to be seen by everybody on the planet, especially people with children being targeted by this post-human agenda. David Ike has been on the forefront as a vanguard exposing all this, And we'll talk to him in 60 seconds. Please tell folks to tune in. Cyber Week is here with the biggest sales of 2019: amazing products that will change your life, guaranteed. Not only will the products make you healthier, happier, more focused, more energized, they will fund the Info Wars operation into the critical year of 2020.. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot of people notice I've lost weight. So I want to cover the waterfront today. He's been on hiatus, writing books, making films. I was saying, hey, I've been on a couple of years, why? He said I've just had my head down. Well, he's here now and hopefully he'll come back again soon, because two hours with the breaks is not enough to cover every angle. Now I didn't know where he'd go with hundreds of pieces of this puzzle, But he said the global corporate climate takeover and transgenderism as the gateway to transhumanism, which was in my stack as the first thing I was going to bring up, knowing how key it is, without even talking to David. So we're on the same page there. But just a big picture. The globalist Elon Musk was challenging this, saying: beware those worship AI gods and they want to get rid of humans. Now he says: oh, take brain chips. It's false. it's false labeling, false programming, so that it's a jamming what the real universe is. putting up fake icons that they're teaching us through political correctness is literally to sabotage reality and not let us even to code third dimensional transmissions. But yeah, so what they're doing is they're basically putting us in a bubble, a perceptual bubble, And that's the basis of telling someone they're a victim. so you wanted to get it. trans, transhumanism and the transgender. here it is: transgender man who gave birth, loses battle to be registered as a father. That's upside down world saying you know, pig not given the right to say he can fly to the moon and back Britain's first transgender couple to allow their five year old child to begin transitioning- a total cult again doing this to their daughter. Here's another one favorite drag queen story time: author likes pedophile Instagram post talking about hashtag: young boy lover hashtag, pedophilia hashtag. I mean, it's all right here. scroll through that for folks with all of this open Satanism and the coming out and these people all dress like demons and drag queen story time, and women bringing their children to offer them up to men, Many of them convicted pedophiles. what in the hell is going on there, David? that does. And what they want to do with this smart grid, this connecting the human brain to artificial intelligence, is to stop us expanding our consciousness into greater levels of awareness, understanding, and that's admitted the White House science are said we put floor on the water to lower your IQ, to make you more manageable. They admit they're doing it. Talk about criminal activity, Exactly, And so that's that. that's what it's all about. Anyway, in terms of the transgender thing, this, this, this relates to the whole smart grid technological agenda. They want, in the end, to change the nature of the human body so it becomes a synthetic, a synthetic human body. They're already working on it, sometimes in the open, overwhelmingly in in the secret, bases and projects. This synthetic human will not have gender and will not be able to procreate, which takes us into brave new world and the world hatchery method of technological produce of children, which is what Aldous actually was talking about in the world hatcheries. And so what they are doing is preparing people to be young as well, because they're with the adults for the no gender world. So what? this is the process: confuse gender, confuse gender, confuse gender, confuse gender, fuse gender, fuse gender, no gender, human. And because they are looking at a technological procreation instead of a human procreation, they don't need men and women anymore because they don't need to procreate, because they're that's going to be done another way. And so what is happening with this transgender indoctrination which is so disgusting? It's not because, again, it's not about protecting transgender people from from discrimination. It's about forcing this agenda and attacking the name man and woman and attacking the very biological jump point of the third dimension. Well, in the same way that the school system, which has been completely taken over for this agenda, has been indoctrinating children into the climate cult agenda to terrify them at, the world's going to win, So they are being at the same time indoctrinated into- and boy are they back in two minutes with the final second day of the night. And then we've got all Joseph Watson. The last few days I've been online looking for the speech, actually read it in a book about Winston Churchill many years ago, and I've found a few places where it's mentioned. Cyber week is here. You're listening to the Alex Jones show, Our final segment with David Ike, Paul Watson taking over. Look at this headline- wax my balls. trans activists complains that gynecologist won't see her files. more lawsuits Continuing. transgendered men again give birth- just totally made up. and then now these families Where they pressure their kids to do it. It's, it's. it's it's not turning them into another sex. it's giving them chemicals that end up killing them early. it's criminal activity in my view. and it came out of the Tabistock Institute powerful report The Gregory's put out- and I get mad at the crew because they're great people, but they like do these incredible reports and it's like no promotion. It's not brought to me Not a big deal is it made about it. We don't even get the people that we have that have Twitter accounts to put it out. It's like this: Yeah, So if you don't take our stuff serious and get it out at, banned on video, Nobody is because we got first rate reporters and stuff breaking stuff that is earth shattering Because, as David Ike just said, he's dead on the climate change system is about teaching humans to hate themselves and about turning everything over to a world government system. And the transgenderism is of getting them ready for brain chips and everything else. because if you'll accept a man's a woman and a woman's a dog or any of this other stuff, or people put Drano in their eyes because they want to be transabled and then we got to pay for their tax money to take care of them, then we'll put up with cyborgs. Closing comments on that. David Ike, and I appreciate you joining us today. Well, what have you just described? you just described George Orwell's two plus two equals five. What they're telling us is to believe that two plus two equals five, and in 1984, and there were punishments for not accepting that, even if you thought it actually equal four. And so what we have now are the punishments. You've got parents who are terrified of social services knocking on their door If they don't go along with the tyranny now school, which is actually a tyranny, which is what they've become imposing these things upon children. But if we're going to stop this, then we need to grow a pair and we need to grow a backbone and we need to not accept that two and two equals anything but four. So when people say these things, that you've just described, these ludicrous things, and you get attacked for saying, actually, that man and a woman is the biology of humans And that's not to say that people can't be transgender. good luck to them. But that's not what this is about. This is not about protecting transgender people. It's about indoctrinating kids to become confused about their gender for a big political reason. If this was about protecting transgender people, then when those transgender people- and I've been reading books about this- come out who've been through the surgery, who've been through the transition, and say it was a big mistake. I wish I hadn't bowed to the pressure to do it because it's destroyed my life- The transgender activists, if it was about transgender people, would say hey, hey, you know if you're thinking about it, you know you need to listen to these people because they're you know they're going to be problems. no, no, what happens to those people when they come out and say I made a mistake is they are abused and vilified and demonized because it's not about transgender, it's about an agenda. This is why, when Jewish people come out and criticize Israel, they get more abuse from the Israeli networks than non-Jewish people. So it's not about protecting Jewish people. it's about protecting an agenda which has multiple faces, and what we need to do is refuse to accept that two and two equal anything but four. So when they come out with this stuff- and we need to keep, we're supposed to keep our heads down and nod. where all this craziness is going? the latest giant Islamic attacks the government covering up? where are the other seven convicted terrorists they released with him. I mean, this is all coming up this hour. please don't forget. if you spend your money with Amazon and the big box stores, you're literally giving it to places like Dick's Sporting Goods and Walmart that are anti-gun now, that are pro-transgenderism, like Target, Amazon, all the things they're doing. get your products at M4storecom. you're gonna get the best supplements. you're gonna get great Liberty based t-shirts. you're gonna get great air filtration, great water filtration, the lowest prices you're gonna find. But it's being superimposed and forced to bring down society And so I'm going to show you clips today. Then I'll hit all the other news on AI and more big developments there- Examples of this. But then we've also got clips in the places like the Netherlands where they show a high functioning down syndrome man who has a job, And there the trendy reporters- three of them- say: you cost three times more for society, You should just kill yourself. He says: well, I don't want to kill myself. He's very sad to have to tell them he doesn't want to die, but he's very sorry, He's a burden. So on one hand they're promoting euthanasia- government sponsored pushing it, telling people to commit suicide, infanticide, all the rest of it, But they're over here saying the government will pay for you to have your penis cut off or your testicles cut off or your breast cut off and will pay welfare to you to live in a house as a baby because you identify as that. And they're even talking about social workers that will come down and change the diapers And they're putting- in Michigan- this was confirmed two years ago, people didn't believe it- cat boxes for children to urinate and defecate in without telling the parents in elementary schools. because they told the kids: meow, meow, meow, meow. the new gang, the new clique, isn't the jocks or the crap kickers, as we would call ourselves, that wore boots and stuff, or the greasers like back in the 50s, Or the pibs- you know kids that were black, the rockers- No, it's. you now defecate the cat box And they keep files in the schools. I understand that people will obviously they're going to react, but it's the fact that you say you identify as black. I don't want to fight the black people, I do it for myself. It is not a media attention. I'm just, By the way, pause. What do you see with this woman and the fat baby and the Drano lady, Mentally ill clowns? Now, what do you see with the trans men? They don't really look like a woman, 99% of them. They're obese, they're horrific looking, they are dressed like clowns and they're saying: we're coming for your children. and that's the last key part on the trans age movement. The left is saying that children can identify as adults, adults and have sex with adults, and that they have their own rights to take an experimental shot, to take drugs, to drink alcohol, can't join the military, can't get a gun, can't drink alcohol. save me in the name of Jesus Christ. You're going to have to make a decision. please join us now. please make the decision. only you can make it So you can pull up the unified FBI crime statistics. and trans people in the United States have the highest rate of suicide, the highest rate of HIV, the highest rate of being murdered, and when you look at the statistics and drill in, it is that over half of them are sex workers. what population is half sex workers? Nobody. That's what they're put into by the system. They are under psychiatric care more than any other group where they're fostering their mental illness and super turbo charging it and they are in super abusive, destructive societies. None of the left said violence is wrong. None of them said it was all well, you shouldn't have messed with him who was a her. So they can push their terrorism. they can push their violence And then turn around and call us terrorists. Here is another clown. More than 50% of transgender youth in the US, which is estimated to be more than 150,000 kids, live in states in which transgender youth have lost access to, or at risk of losing access to, gender affirming care. Look, this is awful news. Let's be very clear about that. LGBTQI plus kids are resilient, They are fierce, They fight back. They're not going anywhere And we have their back. Then they followed her to her hotel and started breaking down the door and attacking her, and the police wouldn't help. Or the dorm they had for her to be at the university. And it goes on and on and on and on. A bunch of other clips of school boards admitting they're keeping it secret from the parents what they're doing. Yeah, that's what pedos do. And then leftist trans people all over the internet. look at this clip saying we want to kill JK Rowling because she says biological women are biological women. And then you got the men in the MMA breaking women's jaws, creating subdermal hematomas. Look at this Beating up biological women And it's like, oh, now when a man beats up a woman, it's liberal, it's trendy. But don't worry, the new movement is saying they're babies And that the children can be adults and then have sex with the babies. Boy, that's free speech, isn't it? Here it is. So this one family, it was a matter of. well, we have other schools, which one would your child like to transfer to? So, and eventually the homeschool, which, understandably, Where I've seen the most resistance is with our coaches. And it's interesting because for them, I think, once they, once they interact with a student who's gender expansive or transgender, it takes the mystique away And then they realize, oh, it's just a kid, Oh, it's just a boy, It's just a girl. I get it now, But until they have that personal interaction, you know, we have male coaches who are horrified at the thought of having a biological girl changing clothes in front of them. You know they're the stigma attached to. you know abuse and you know just having a male teacher around any female student in that circumstance is just scary for them. And you know it's one thing for me to keep saying it's not a girl, It's not a girl. Oh, but there's one more good thing about this book: JK Rowling f***ing dies. Yeah, Gretchen had the nerve to kill off the queen of the TERFs, and it is glorious. I only wish that scene could have been even more brutal. And TERFs are biological women that want to be left alone by men invading their space. But hey, the men are invading. Fallon Fox, a transgender MMA fighter, has now broken two female opponents' skulls- A man beating on women- and named Bravest Athlete 2020.. The hate for women is real. The globalists hate all of us, but the feminist movement was about isolating women from the family so they could be taken out. A dude pretending to be a woman knocked out a woman, fracturing her skull in the process, and then bragged about how he was going to beat other women's asses too. Listen to his voice. Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. It's Alex Jones. All right, I'm going to finish up with a Transhumanist cult update and a bunch of other news in the next segment, But here's another clip. This is Columbia Gender Identity Program from their own website, and all the major universities are involved in this now, except for some of the Christian ones that are still quasi-Christian, And they've all been on speaking engagements where they say: we get $40,000 cut to a woman's breast off. Well, a breast job's $10,000,. so then they jack up the price too, to cut your breast completely off And we get, you know, $30,000 to cut your penis off, your testicles off, and we've got to affirm this. So they're also making money while they do it. This guy is like the Nellie Klaus Schwab- You can make an appointment for this- And the children's hospitals are being converted to giant meat grinders to sterilize our boys and girls. Here's the clip. The Columbia Gender Identity Program provides evidence-based clinical care to children, adolescents and adults who identify as transgender, gender non-binary or gender non-conforming. Transgender, gender non-conforming people typically face two sources of stress. The one source of stress is related to the fact that society still is unfamiliar with their gender identity. Hey, pause it again. We're going to start this over. Of course it's not. It is because you do not give us access to other children that these people commit suicide. You'll see how easy it is. Just give me the money and give me the pee-pees. Here it is. The Columbia Gender Identity Program provides evidence-based clinical care to children, adolescents and adults who identify as transgender gender, non-binary or gender non-conforming, Transgender, gender non-conforming people typically face two sources of stress. The one source of stress is related to the fact that society still is unfamiliar with their gender identity and their gender expression. The second source of stress is related to the incongruence that they may feel between their self-perceived gender identity- the sense of being a boy, girl, man, woman or other gender- and their current gender role or the sex characteristics of their body, And so our program is equipped to help young people and their families with both sources of stress. In our clinic, one of the things that we emphasize is creating an affirming space where we respect and celebrate gender diversity. Hit pause again, Back up just a second. Let us American farmers who inject livestock with mRNA shots this month. You will, you will, you will, you will do what we say for you to do. Let's go back to this monster. And so our program is equipped to help young people and their families with both sources of stress. In our clinic, one of the things that we emphasize is creating an affirming space where we respect and celebrate gender diversity and gender minorities. We know, especially in the case of youth who identify as transgender, gender non-binary or gender non-conforming, that family acceptance is incredibly important When we involve families in treatment. So we're going to take your kids away from you. We're going to bully you to submit. If you don't submit, we've got bills introduced to take your children from you. You're in a cult. Take your children in. It's so good what you're doing. We're such heroes. We're so liberal. Family members who may be slaying with complicated feelings around their child. The family members may be struggling with cutting their son's testicles and penises off. You may be struggling with having your breast cut off or your uterus removed. Believe me, you'll not be depressed anymore once we chop it all off, Several years, your boy will have to wear a cone up in a bloody hole in his body. It will bleed, it will stink, it will pass, but maybe it will heal over and now he will have an open wound to urinate out of. This is not a hellraiser nightmare. We're going to come back and finish this and move on to other topics. But this is the total normalization of evil, completely out in the open, And these people mean business, So don't struggle. We are the establishment. If a mother or father 20 years ago went in and said: I want to cut my son's Johnson off. they put you in a mental institution. If you cut your child's penis off, you go to jail. But because it is the system and the authority, people cannot believe they're living in a nightmare. so they convince themselves to submit to us And once they have done that, we have full control. Most banned man in America, Alex Jones. I want you all to know something. You're right. We stand against autocrats like you, Joe Biden, And we say no, And we say no to your war. We know If you are receiving this transmission. you are the resistance Live from the Infowarscom studios. it's Alex Jones. We know you're feeling bad about bringing your 9-year-old in to have his testicles and penis cut off or your daughter's breast or uterus removed. It is like abortion. Once you do it and believe it is okay, you will now defend it forever after we have you commit the crime, Just like we released the poison shot and paid off the medical system to cover it up. Now they're committed to the lie. Now they will help commit all the new crimes that we are going to bring forward against humanity. We have the full backing of the system. It is part of the tip of the spear of our depopulation operation. Of course, there will be a certain nostalgia for your daughter, your son's body parts. Maybe you wanted grandchildren, But you affirmed their identity that we taught them in the school and confused them like they were going to be a superhero When they had their testicles cut off, when their penis was removed or when they took the shot. But the pain will continue on and we will medicalize them and control them. That is why the CIA, when it occupied Germany in 1945 until 1990, took over a million children- up to 30,000 per town- from Christians and placed them with what we call the new family, Convicted pedophiles who would rape the babies from age six months on. We give the girls to the lesbians, We give the boys to the quote gay men who have sex with them, And then we use them to recruit new children. But our program was exposed. So our friends in MI6 developed the transgender program in 1967. We launched operational in 1981. We have gone full operational in the year 2015.. And now you'll see the great success of our operation. They are completely confused, They cannot believe we are attacking them and they are submitting. well, Our program is a resounding success. And as they begin to die from the chemicals, radiologicals and electromagnetic frequencies, we will tell them: you are depressed because you do not know who you are. Chopping parts of your body off as a ghost dance of sorts will protect you. Yes, look at our slaves, Look at how they defend Big Pharma and love the establishment and love nuclear war, And we will give them all of this for our father Satan has promised us dominion. once we have killed them down to 500 million, Then those of us that have experimented upon their bodies will be given the knowledge of the transformation and will ascend into the Evermind forever in the name of Lucifer. So, liberal, Liberate us, O great Lucifer. Columbia Gender Ethnicity Program is housed in the Department of Psychiatry, and that is in part because we believe transgender cares about more than hormones and surgery. It's really about living your life as a transgender person, or as the gender that you perceive yourself to be, Living the life, the dream of the biomedical combine, living the life of depression and pain with the other victims. but we will be there explaining. you are so unhappy because you do not. you do not accept it by the evil ones that did not want us to liberate you by cutting off parts of your body. We must liberate them and we will. and they just caught a big liberal's son who is transitioning. They went to his house. the neighbors warned he was planning to liberate a school. He was abused. There's a new story in Colorado. They were mean to him, so he got the rifle and he was going to do transgender surgery on the school by firing those beautiful 2,000 mile per hour bullets into them. And as we, we could do it so easy like that, but we do it slowly. If he beat today, they kill themselves tomorrow. Oh, let's finish him. It's really about living your life as a transgender person or as the gender that you perceive yourself to be, and helping the family and the environment to adjust to that. But from the Department of Psychiatry, we provide access to all the other specialties at Columbia. People come to us at different points in their life and at different places in their journey, with a varying understanding of who they are themselves and their gender. Our main goal at the Columbia Gender Identity Program is to meet each person wherever they are on that path and to help as they become the unique individual that they've always known themselves to be. We recognize that there's no one way to be transgender, but rather that there is a whole diverse range of gender identities and gender expressions, and you will get that from the Department of Psychiatry and surgeries. You're finally going to be who you need to be on the scalpel. You've all seen the Hollywood women that get beautiful women get hundreds of surgeries until they look like monsters. But that is a beautiful thing and all the money goes to us. but it's not enough to chop up women's faces and bodies. So get your copy of The Great Reset and The War for the World, a signed copy, at Infowarscom- And there is a markup there, because this is a fundraiser to keep us on the air. So you won't just have this historic memento and this powerful book, You'll also know that you help keep Infowars on the air. I want to thank those of you that have gotten signed copies of the book or unsigned copies, But I want to encourage all of you who haven't yet to go to Infowarscom and get a signed copy and buy a couple of unsigned copies and donate them to the library or give them to the local school. This is an Infowar. I'm counting on you and thank you for your support- Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones, Every major TV program, every corporate show, every major magazine, every major sports team, transgender, transgender, transgender- to annihilate us And so to make it cool that most people are sterile, most people are totally poisoned by all the chemicals and it's like: hey, it's liberal. And then they organize the victims into their army. You saw in Tennessee and other legislatures where they're passing laws saying, hey, you're not going to cut five-year-olds' penises off, the schools aren't going to keep it a secret from parents. you're not going to run this cult run by psychiatrists and big think tanks and big scientific institutions with limited funding. They're like, well, we're going to get violent then and we're going to storm capitals and beat up state police and attack people. And the liberals are like, well, this is good what they did. How dare you expel members of the Tennessee legislature? They keep us on air Plus. you're missing out on having these products, So get off the bench, Get in the game, Step to the plate and go to InfoWarsStorecom. Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones. You know. I bring up the racial issue not because Larry Payton is a black man, but because that's one of their main attack profiles: the transgenderism, the open borders, the collapse of the dollar, the cutting off the energy. But the good news is, despite their attempt, with Obama betraying his pledge to create unification, create division for divide and conquer, We see the polls in reality show people perceive racism as worse than ever, But people are more together than ever when it comes to wanting freedom and believing in America. So, Larry Payton, you were getting into the political assassination of Trump. I believe that this is going to fail. I believe they're going to try to assassinate him, which is a historical reality to deal with. Now, in the year 2020, to set the precedent that people can be turned into cyborgs, that robots can be given rights- you name it. they are intimidating and arresting people all over the world who simply misgender someone. So the ultimate crime will be even asking what someone is if you can't even tell what they are. This is the ultimate Kafka-esque mind control, and there's several big articles up on InfoWarscom that break this down. UK keen find at her house arrest asking trans police officers gender. UK mother: spare jail for misgendering trans woman to pay 1,000 pound fine. Ladies and gentlemen, very exciting things, and the world populist are waking up and are taking action and are speaking out and are confronting these corrupt politicians to their faces. Now there's a video that's posted right now to InfoWarscom for NationalFilecom: Bloomberg confronted for being an Epstein's little black book. Now let's talk about the fact that Hillary Rodham Clinton was running Jeffrey Epstein and was extremely close to Bloomberg, and you've obviously seen how they're now talking about running together with Hillary as the VP. That's why Hillary and Bill are so powerful, as they were in control of those pedophilia blackmail ranks, and that's now, of course, mainstream news. Get the Alexa Pure Breeze today and save big on a world class air filtration system for your home. Don't keep breathing toxic or dangerous air. Get this special today at infohorsestorecom. You get fined under house arrest for asking trans police officers gender and it hurt their feelings. UK mother spared jail for misgendering. trans woman ordered to pay 1,000 pound fine because it could have caused anxiety. in the new royalty That's the thought police. If a leftist has their feelings hurt for any reason, you get fined and you go to jail. This is tyranny. These people are bullies and it's sick and it's evil and it's part of a scientific anti-human takeover. So get prepared infowarstorecom with Swarble Foods That robots can be given rights, you name it. They are intimidating and arresting people all over the world who simply misgender someone. So the ultimate crime will be even asking what someone is if you can't even tell what they are. This is the ultimate Kafkaesque mind control and there's several big articles up on infowarstorecom that break this down. UK teen: fine under house arrest for asking trans police officers gender. UK mother spare jail for misgendering trans woman: ordered to pay 1,000 pound fine. We're not going to sit back and hope the bureaucrats get the president to take action. We're going to take it into our own hands. It's good to take action, Doug. I'm going to be at C-Pack next week to say hi, The first amendment. We need you to step into the plate and help spread the word about Band-Aught Video and infowarscom. today, Across the western world, from high school to college sports to even the Olympics, men, biological men, are winning almost all of the sporting events. This is men invading women's spaces and bullying them and taking their rights away, All in the name of the liberalism and openness. And then every day, I have stacks of news articles, Just like today. UK team find under house arrest for asking trans police officers gender and it hurt their feelings. UK mother spared jail for misgendering trans woman ordered to pay 1,000 pound fine because it could have caused anxiety in the new royalty. That's the thought police. If a leftist has their feelings hurt for any reason, you get fined and you go to jail. This is tyranny. these people are bullies and it's sick and it's evil and it's part of a scientific anti-human takeover. We have the last of the immune gargle selling out as we speak. We have high-quality storable foods that are ready to ship, and vitamin mineral fusion is back in stock, along with Ultra 12 at Infowarsstorecom. Across the western world, from high school to college sports to even the Olympics, men- biological men- are winning almost all of the sporting events. This is men invading women's spaces and bullying them and taking their rights away, All in the name of the liberalism and openness, and that every day I have stacks of news articles, just like today. UK team fined under house arrest for asking trans police officers gender and it hurt their feelings. UK mother spared jail for misgendering trans woman ordered to pay 1,000 pound fine because it could have caused anxiety in the new royalty That's the thought police. If a leftist has their feelings hurt for any reason, you get fined and you go to jail. This is tyranny. These people are bullies and it's sick and it's evil and it's part of a scientific anti-human takeover. You're listening to the Alex Jones show. now, in the year 2020, to set the precedent that people can be turned into cyborgs, that robots can be given rights, you name it. they are intimidating and arresting people all over the world who simply misgender someone. so the ultimate crime will be even asking what someone is if you can't even tell what they are. this is the ultimate Kafkaesque mind control and there's several big articles up on infowarscom that break this down. UK teen fine under house arrest for asking trans police officers gender. UK mother spare jail for misgendering trans woman today. one thousand pound, fine, all right, I have not touched the coronavirus today because I was waiting for professor Dr Francis A Boyle to come on. leading American expert international law responsible for drafting the biological weapons anti-terrorism act of 89 was adopted into world law, the American implementing legislation for the biological weapons convention. he served the board of directors of amnesty international, represented by the university convenience. he served as a legal advisor to palestinian delegation, the middle east peace negotiations, the Bertrand Russell peace lectures. in fact, I find myself brushing my teeth three to four times a day, rather than just twice a day now, because I like the way it feels. I, I, I, I, I. across the western world, from high school to college sports to even the Olympics, men, biological men, are winning almost all of the sporting events. this is men invading women's faces and bullying them and taking their rights away in the name of the liberalism and openness. and then every day I have stacks of news articles, just like today. UK team find under house arrest for asking trans police officers gender and it hurt their feelings. UK mother spared jail for misgendering trans woman ordered to pay thousand pound fine because it could have caused anxiety in the new royalty. that's the thought police. if a leftist has their feelings hurt for any reason, you get fined and you go to jail. this is tyranny. these people are bullies and it's sick and it's evil and it's part of a scientific anti-human takeover. we're very privileged and I'm happy to share everything with you. plaud turd man, you're not laughing. I just made my 1 million drumf joke and you're not laughing- the system that knows so much. you decide what's right or wrong the same way that you decide what's funny. meanwhile, in the UK supermarket Tesco had to apologise for telling people not to steal female menstrual products. women, trans men or anyone who menstruates should not have to worry about being reported for taking a necessity that I personally believe should be free. Tesco removed signs placed above tampons and other menstrual health products that asked people to report shoplifting of these items in its store in Kensington London. after the signs caused mass uproar online, the company said it was very sorry for any offence caused and claimed that the sign was placed in error. shoplifting is now progressive. the contraception shortage in the UK has apparently caused chaos for women. that's deemed racist. in today's modern parlance of politically correct speech codes, what is the line on what's going to be determined to be racist or homophobic and what is the line on what's going to be determined determined to be critical and non-critical care? there you see somebody on twitter joked about it. this is going to be a hilarious when a boomer is denied his double bypass because he called someone colored on facebook. and there's other examples of this, as jack montgomery highlights. in late 2017, an nhs patient who requested a female nurse to carry out a cervical smear complained that when the hospital sent a person with an obviously male appearance- close crop tear, male facial appearance and voice, large number of tattoos and facial stubble- who insisted: my gender is not male, i'm a transsexual. so our people who are going to ask questions about being treated for female procedures by an obviously biological male- are they going to be called transphobic? are they going to be denied care? as i write in the article, this is even worse than china's social credit score, which hasn't yet gone so far as to punish people by withdrawing medical treatment if they engage in wrong think. now you can be denied plane and train tickets if you criticize the government. people asked if this was a real story. yes, it's a real story. this is going to take effect in april and, of course, is it going to work the other way on non-white people who make racist statements? are they going to be done? denied hospital treatment, or is this, this all going to be applied in one direction, i wonder? in a related story, breitbart reports judge rules against police that acted like checker gestapo stasi over online transgender jokes. this was a guy called harry miller, who has won his high court freedom of speech battle against homicide police over his right to make jokes about transgenderism on social media. now, as far as i remember, he didn't even tweet this. he merely liked a tweet, which was a limerick making fun of transgender people. thus, miller, himself an ex copper, was in sense when humberside police sent a police officer around his home. bearing in mind we got record violent crime across the entire united kingdom. but this guy likes a tweet about transgenderism- a limerick enough police resources to send a police officer around to his home in order to quote, check his thinking. that was the term they use, literal thought police after remarks he had made on twitter we've classified as a non-crime hate incident. now the judge has responded to this. he said the claimants tweets. we were lawful and there was not the slightest risk he would commit a criminal offense by continuing to tweet. i found the common combination of the police visiting the claimants place of work and their subsequent statements in relation to the possibility of prosecution were disproportionate interference with the claimants right to freedom of expression, bearing in mind that this guy's employer, at the time that this was in the news or before it was even in the headlines, was given a call by the police and asked if any transgender people were working in his place of work because they might feel unsafe because he liked a limerick on twitter. the judge continued in his statement: in this country we've never had a checker, a gestapo or a starzate. we have never lived in an Orwellian society. well, they're literally arresting mothers in their own kitchens with their babies next to them for saying that biological men are men on twitter. so i would argue that that's somewhat Orwellian, beyond anything Orwell could ever imagine. however, the court ruling is unlikely to resolve much because the judge did not accept miller's wider challenge against the college of policing guidelines on hate crime. these define a hate incident as any non-crime incident which is perceived- perceived by the victim or any other person to be motivated by hostility or prejudice against a person who is transgender or perceived to be transgender. so they investigate it if the victim perceives it to be a hate incident not based on any impartial, objective evidence or eyewitness statements whatsoever. if the victim perceives it to be a hate incident, then it's logged and investigated as one. and of course you've seen the behavior of people like jessica yeneve over in canada. of course, people who claim victimhood status and wrap it in themselves as a form of identity, as a very mean means of existence, of course they're going to claim that anything that offends them is a hate incident. now, in the year 2020, to set the precedent that people can be turned into cyborgs, uh, that robots can be given rights, you name it. they are intimidating and arresting people all over the world who simply misgender someone. so the ultimate crime will be even asking what someone is if you can't even tell what they are. this is the ultimate cough to ask mind control, and there's several big articles up on info wars dot com that break this down. uk teen finder: house arrest for asking trans police officers gender. uk mother spare jail for misgendering trans woman. order to pay one thousand pound fine. you're listening to the alex jones show broadcasting internationally from the summit dot news headquarters in the united kingdom. it's paul joseph watson and we are back and we have a headline up here on national file. dot com reads: tp. summit dot news, we'll be back. across the western world, from high school to college sports to even the olympics, men, biological men, are winning almost all of the sporting events. this is men invading women's spaces and bullying them and taking their rights away, all in the name of the liberalism and openness. and then every day i have stacks of news articles, just like today. uk team find under house arrest for asking trans police officers gender and it hurt their feelings. uk mother spared jail for misgendering trans woman ordered to pay thousand pound fine because it could have caused anxiety in the new royalty. that's the thought police. if a leftist has their feelings hurt for any reason, you get fined and you go to jail. this is tyranny. these people are bullies and it's sick and it's evil and it's part of a scientific anti-human takeover. that's because evil is running it. when evil is relegated to its rightful quadrant, you're going to see a jump in human development that is going to be unimaginable for those of us alive in this millisecond. and these controllers are pulling their hair out, knowing that the jump is about to be made, and are just running around overthrowing all the genetics of the planet, murdering, killing innocents, killing Christians, because they have the spirit, that is the operating system to save the planet, while just allying with every failed evil they can. I'm here to tell you: victory is absolutely assured, but individually, you have to take it in your hands. Joe Biggs, here with info wars dot com to get you some of the trendy liberal news. Navy requires all sailors to undergo transgender education by July 2017. yay, it's so progressive. come on, let's find out. what else is going on. starting November 1st, a training will educate sailors about the Navy's new transgender policy that allows transgenders to serve in the military. this training will emphasize policies and expectations of personal behavior. it is unclear what exactly is in these training sessions, but the Navy will soon send out messages with more information. in the meantime, leadership is looking forward to putting together a commander's toolkit that will guide training, said lieutenant Jessica Anderson, a spokeswoman for naval personnel command. yeah, thanks Obama. now we have to have transgender training. it's so progressive and cool negative. our military is meant to be hardened killers, to go out and take out the enemy, not go through transgender training and not wear red high heels. this has been Joe Biggs and I'm pissed off and I'm reporting for info wars dot com. it's not just our water we need to filter. it's not just our food that needs to be cleaned. it's the air we're breathing, especially for our children. i'm breaking off. i've been doing this 19 years here, but, uh, i've told them i'm a ticket- serious, it's like- because i'm just like the stalwart guy that's always there, always loyal, always, you know, like i. but you know the thing is, next hour i will, after i take this, this group of calls, i'll get to, uh, the the next round of clubs. they're very, very important. i went long on that plug. it wasn't really a plug, it was mainly orant. um, with this, with this war on narratives, again they create these fake things like transgender bathrooms. i'm not against transgender. point is they create it to become the. you know what's your gross national product? uh, it's trannies. it just becomes some weird grand faloon- that was a term that a great patriot wrote about- where people just make up these weird things to celebrate and to be their own little crazy club. i'm not even worried about infiltration anymore. god's got to cover me and i just- and i trust in god, but top my camels better, would say. but at this point i'm all in. i'm not watching my six, i'm engaging the enemy. jump in here with info wars dot com to get you some of the trendy liberal news. navy requires all sailors to undergo transgender education by july 2017. yay, it's so progressive. come on, let's find out what else is going on. starting november 1st, a training will educate sailors about the navy's new transgender policy that allows transgenders to serve in the military. this training will emphasize policies and expectations of personal behavior. it is unclear what exactly is in these training sessions, but the navy will soon send out messages with more information. in the meantime, leadership is looking forward to putting together a commander's toolkit that will guide training, said lieutenant jessica anderson, a spokeswoman for naval personnel command. yeah, thanks obama, now we have to have transgender training. it's so progressive and cool negative. our military is meant to be hard and killers to go out and take out the enemy, not go through transgender training and not wear red high heels. this has been joe biggs and i'm pissed off and i'm reporting for info wars dot com. over the years, there have been a lot of powerful advancements in the field of science and nutraceuticals. young jevity integrates years of scientific research into creating fantastic products like beyond tangy, tangerine, plant-derived minerals and much more. young jevity also offers you an ingenious way to augment your income and the best part, you'll be helping your friends and family along the way. she's dangerous, she's desperate, she's ruthless. what kind of dirty tricks, what kind of stunts did they pull? we'll be back. we're on the march. the empire's on the run, alex jones and the gcn radio network, jumpixer with info wars dot com to get you some of the trendy liberal news. navy requires all sailors to undergo transgender education by july 2017. yay, it's so progressive. come on, let's find out what else is going on starting november. first, a training will educate sailors about the navy's new transgender policy that allows transgenders to serve in the military. this training will emphasize policies and expectations of personal behavior. it is unclear what exactly is in these training sessions, but the navy will soon send out messages with more information. in the meantime, leadership is looking forward to putting together a commander's toolkit that will guide training, said lieutenant jessica anderson, a spokeswoman for naval personnel command. yeah, thanks obama. now we have to have transgender training. it's so progressive and cool. negative. our military is meant to be hardened killers, to go out and take out the enemy, not go through transgender training and not wear red high heels. this has been joe biggs and i'm pissed off and i'm reporting for info wars dot com, not a group. you develop living defense for us. it took you over a year to do it. why is this so good? Now they're suffering from Bell's palsy. So just all kinds of news on that front. it's just insane. I don't even know how to break all of this down. Then you have an unbelievable situation in Loudon County, Virginia, where they covered up a rape in a bathroom of a young girl. they covered up the rape of a bathroom in a young girl so they could pass transgender bathroom policies, And the individual that raped that young girl has now raped a second girl. Wow, A lot on that front. Fulton County fires people for shredding voter applications. Wow, Anti Trump people in the Navy selling nuclear secrets to foreign powers- total treason. It's just unbelievable. And then Kamala Harris- I knew there was something weird about it. Now we know, posing with actors for a fake NASA video. it's all insane. But first let's go back to Alex with more Remember: the global social engineers are betting everything on the fact that we won't adapt and overcome to their tyranny, but that we will submit to it. That's why, with the leftist teachings, the transgenderism and all the rest of the cultural brainwashing and the forced inoculations that are inoculations, it's all comply for the greater good of society And then we'll let you go back out and go back to normal again. But now, 21 months into this nightmare, what is the BBC and CNN and MSNBC and ABC News and Derspiegel tell us? they say the new normal is that we're never going back to normal. The before time of being able to travel and have a car and have air conditioning and have children is over. We're going to cut the resources off so that you can't live. Find these and more at infowarstorecom and fund the info world, making your life a lot healthier. Now we have just highlighted a level of evil that is going on in response to this COVID, where they have a policy to put plastic bags over people's heads in a hospital. It'd be called suffocation or child abuse anywhere else, but in the hospital for COVID somehow that works. But as evil as that is, this story might be even worse And you want to try to make sense of this in your head. You only reach the worst conclusions possible, but it's always the same people doing these evil, dastardly deeds. So in Loudoun County, for some odd reason, there are school boards which are obviously Democrats, that are desperate and it's a top priority to have transgender bathrooms and or have the access of transsexuals to any bathroom be a policy, And so this is a top priority for them. Who knows why, but Democrats on school boards in Loudoun County have been trying to get either transgender bathrooms and or let transsexuals into whatever bathroom that they want to identify as, And this has been a top priority. So back in June- I guess months ago- there was a situation in Loudoun County where a transsexual individual- a male biologically- went into the female bathroom as a transsexual, allegedly or pretending to be, and raped and raped a girl. Here's here's headline in the Daily Mail: Loudoun County father who was dragged out of woke school board meeting reveals his daughter was raped in the girl's bathroom by a skirt wearing male who was arrested for assaulting a second girl months later. Now so you say, whoa, a second girl. well, I'm jumping forward. So the transsexual, biological male rapes a girl in the woman's bathroom at this school. Now the Democrats on the school board are in the middle of trying to pass the official policy at the school to let men go into the bathroom with women. if they claim that they're women, if they identify as female or have transsexuals be able to go in whatever bathroom they want, just blur the lines of reality. So they covered up a rape for a political purpose. The Democrats on the Loudoun County school board covered up a rape of a girl in the women's bathroom so they could get the policy they wanted passed. And they had the father of the girl who was raped removed from school board meetings because they didn't want that information getting out. because hey, yeah, you're trying to pass policy to let men go into the female bathrooms and you just had a rape. Now they're basically shut down, And it's the same thing with every other institution they want to take over. So this is how they put these operatives in. They know that once they do this, there's going to be a bunch of rapes and a bunch of abuse. They encourage male predators to say they're women, to get women pregnant in prison, you name it, saying they're women. They then rape the women. They have been raped to little girls, just like Andrew Cuomo said famously on CNN: hey, if your 10-year-old daughter doesn't like seeing a man's penis, well she's a hate-monger. Because people said on CNN: hey, they're wanting to put full-grown men in the girl's showers, They're wanting to have the male soccer coach, the male basketball coach, say he's a woman in the showers, Because if they get you to do that, you'll accept anything. So this is how they corrupt institutions. This is how they come in and take over groups. Same thing with COVID. they admit it- is the phallates and the chemicals in the plastics that make boys feminine and girls go into puberty earlier. That's what genital sizes are shrinking testosterone's way down. Oh, Alice, I've got a story on that testosterone right here. I'm going to cover that. I think that maybe we're the problem here. I guess if a transsexual person walks into the men's room or the girls' room and says, hey, I'm going to have my way with you and you don't want that, I guess that makes you the bigot. I mean the trannies going into bathrooms. I guess they should just be allowed to do whatever they want. Alice, I mean, how dare us Remember the convicted rapist who went into the women's spa in LA and went into the hot tub with the naked women and said: you know, this is my genitals, I want to have sex with you. And the left came out. We're all being vindicated right now. So now's the time to not send our laurels Push even harder Back to Alan Shroyer. It really is an incredible thing to sit here and see what the future of humanity is faced with, or America is faced with, and just the lack of resistance, the lack of obstacles, making them just railroad us to the point where they can shut down businesses. They can mandate experimental medicine that is unnecessary for most of the population. They can cover up sexual abuse industrial level by Jeffrey Epstein. They can cover up sexual abuse on a local level because they want to have transgender bathrooms. New numbers are now coming out that since Biden announced the vaccine mandate- which doesn't exist, it was just an edict- 4.3 million Americans have lost their jobs. So, like I said, I can't even get through all the news here on my desk that's so important without important news just stacking up on top of it. Now we're going to be joined by a nurse, Danny, who is going to come on and talk about the vaccine mandates and why she chose not to get it and the tyranny happening at hospitals, And I've just got so much more here to cover, including. I don't even know how to analyze this. Arizona State Representative Wendy Rogers wants less letters, more arrests. Well, yeah, that's how you deal with criminals: You don't write letters, You arrest them. and that's why we have so much criminal activity in our country: because we just talk about it. We talk about the illegal immigration, We talk about the illegal vaccine mandates and it just continues. Again. Loudon County schools tried to conceal sexual assault against the daughter in the bathroom, against the father, against a girl in the bathroom, so that they could get the transgender bathroom bill passed. Really sick stuff. Outrage after man who stabbed high school sophomore to death and watched him die, then hit the murder weapon, gets acquitted, Wow, Wow. Now can you imagine again if the roles were reversed? I won't even tell you what the racial deal here is, but I bet you can guess. This is a fact. Every human being in this room, every human being on Earth, had to pass through the legs of a woman to be on Earth. Oh my God, I'm literally shaking. He said what Gender was a fact? No, cancel him. Civil rights groups and irate Twitter activists reacted with a perfectly calm and measured response by claiming that Chappelle was inciting the mass murder of transgender people, With 2021 on track to be the deadliest year on record for transgender people in the United States, the majority of whom are black transgender people. Netflix should know better. Really, Have more than a quarter of transgender people tried to commit suicide because of Netflix comedy specials? Or is there another reason for that figure being so high? Jacqueline Moore, who stars in Netflix's series Dear White People, threatened to stop working with Netflix as long as they continue to put out and profit from blatantly and dangerously transphobic content. making fun of white people for their ethnicity remains perfectly fine though, Dear Dave Chappelle. transgender comedians can take a joke, but why are you so unfunny? Can take a joke. Yeah, normally people who can take a joke don't literally lobby to ban jokes about them. Meet the new Dave Chappelle: misogynistic, anti-trans and socially irresponsible. And there I was thinking. Given that they banned audience reviews of the Fauci propaganda movie entirely, I'm surprised they didn't do the same to Chappelle. Can't get any bad reviews if you don't allow reviews. genius. Part of the backlash to people like Chappelle and Ricky Gervais, challenging the increasingly monopolistic cultural power of the alphabet people, is woke comedians asserting that they're punching down and attacking helpless, underrepresented minority communities. Take a look at this example from British comedian James Acaster who, despite not being funny, has been lavishly rewarded with a big mainstream platform. They walk straight on stage top of their specials, sometimes do ten solid minutes just slagging off transgender people. Oh yeah, because you know it's been long overdue a challenge. the trans community- Oh, they've had their guard down for too long. if you ask me, They'll all be checking their privilege on the way home now, thanks to you, your brave little sis boy. The entire foundation of this joke is based on the premise that the LGBT lobby is some kind of persecuted, anti-establishment underground resistance movement. In reality, the LGBT movement is the establishment. Their flag is literally flown over every government building and cultural institution, and now even outside US embassies. The trans flag literally flew over Parliament Square in London for an entire month this summer. Because what could be more edgy and anti-establishment than having your colours proudly displayed in the capital city of a major country by the royal institution of chartered surveyors? Oh my God, so edgy. In the UK, you can literally be arrested and thrown in prison for making playful jokes about trans people. A 50-year-old mother in Scotland was charged with a transphobic hate crime after she retweeted an image of a suffragette ribbon. People face scorn, intimidation and harassment. Familiarly insisting that women's spaces in sports shouldn't be dominated by biological men, Glenn Greenwald was savaged by Twitter mobs merely for discussing the results of a Gallup poll on trans identification. In the UK, our two major establishment political parties are afraid of using the word woman for fear of offending the trans lobby When your movement has the power to control thought by changing language, When you can rely on the power of the media to dehumanize and destroy your critics while relying on the power of the state to have them arrested, That kind of suggests that you're not an oppressed minority group anymore and that, in fact, you are the establishment. I'm Team Turf. I agree. I agree, man Gender is a fact. So there you have it, and we have updates on this vital, pressing cultural issue. today, Post-millennial reports, Netflix fires three employees who tried to force their way into an executive meeting over Dave Chappelle's alleged transphobia. And again, I've seen other clips of this special and people who've watched the entire thing have told me He spends half of the special genuflecting and basically bigging up transgender people and saying he doesn't want to offend them, he loves them, And then there are two little segments where he has a little poke at them and basically says: no, people should still be able to argue that biological gender exists And they've literally had purple-haired, obese social justice warriors, as you can see in this article, try to force their way into an executive meeting where the company discussed how they should handle comedian Dave Chappelle's stand-up special. The good news is that Netflix stands by Dave Chappelle after calls for censorship. This is out of ReclaimTheNetorg, in a rare win for free speech in the current online climate. Netflix co-CEO Ted Sanderos said that the Dave Chappelle special released last week will not be cancelled because of autistic freedom, Bearing in mind that people like Dave Chappelle and Ricky Gervais are, because of their massive platform, kind of privileged outliers. the vast majority of comedians, the vast majority of political commentators who poke fun at the alphabet. we've been warning about it for years that this case is a canary in the coal mine. and what are we witnessing? we're witnessing raids on pro-life protesters who are being accused of a crime, like in pennsylvania, like in tenors, tennessee- for protesting abortion clinics and baby killing facilities. and that's how nuts it is. they're going to weaponize everything. now they're saying they're going to arrest people, just like in england, who criticize transgenderism. the just department has, oh, absolutely in fact, already happening. right now at the supreme court, there's a case pending for the united states supreme court where somebody was locked up for for parody, for parody, for making jokes. that's how nuts it is. so that's not supposed to happen in america, but it is happening under the democratic weaponization of the entire legal system, and nothing speaks more to it than plaintiffs asking for eight billion dollars, the largest verdict in the history of man on a speech case. the people that did it need to go to prison for the rest of their lives, because they're a danger against everybody else and they're run by the big banks. that thought in late in the year 2022, it was a good time- long after they banned Alex Jones- to come out and say: listen, you dirty, filthy Americans, we're watching your ass and if you do one thing we don't like, we're gonna find you and kick you off our platform. what a group of criminals, but I'll tell you is really pathetic. it's us. if we put up with crap like this and turn our world over to people like this, we deserve everything we've got. I want to the transgender mafia that folks are waking up to the latest big developments there, the biggest yet on the other side: info wars dot com. tomorrow's news today. stay with us. ladies and gentlemen, the biggest sale of 2022 is now live at info war store dot com. it's the info war store super sale: 40 to 50% off all products in the store. that report is from two and a half years ago, in february of twenty twenty. we have the keys of victory, the keys of destiny, but we must use them. thanks for joining us on the sunday, october ninth twenty twenty two. transmission. so they're launching bio attacks, are launching poison shots, are launching shut down of food worldwide, destroying energy, shipping and fentanyl and other deadly drugs, weaponized marijuana because of schizophrenia and major brain damage. they're hitting the human population at every level, and transgenderism is another one of those angles. if an adult wants to drink drain, oh, they have a right to do so if an adult wants to chop their testicles off, they can do it. but children can't make a decision when the military. they can't take out loans, they can't buy alcohol or guns, they can't join the marine corps or the army or the air force or the coast guard or the navy. but all over the world governments are trying and passing laws, in many cases removing parents from parental control and putting the state involved. particularly disabled children, autistic children, are being tricked to be sterilized. this is another form of abortion, post-abortion sterilization eugenics. so here's the stack of news. controversial vanderbilt university medical centers spins transgender operations for kids following video of hospital dr boasting how surgeries are huge money makers. remember that video from two weeks ago. they make four hundred thousand dollars off a girl just from age 10 to 18. when they cut her breast off, friar with male hormones. of course she's going to live probably 30 years less. but it's okay because they're liberals. that's where america is going. another video: i'm gonna cover this all tomorrow on the weekday show. cbs news report frames removal of gay porn books from children's library as banning books. this guy really wants you to see these stories. but there's good news. GOP governor signs law with holding funds from hospitals providing transgender care to children. that's oklahoma governor kevin stent, that we have this video. plant parenthood cartoons, touts, puberty blockers for children, har young girl coercion to gender transition surgery limits being mulated by doctors were playing at all in a special hour of the show tomorrow and it goes on and on. some women at penises. if you don't sleep with them, you're transphobic. there's a major filmmaker that came out and put out a film in the last few months that's gone viral, exposing the targeting of children, and that's Matt waltz, and now they're calling for his deep platforming, for him to be silenced. but instead of bowing and apologizing, he hit him hard. here it is. we're leading your child now and because it's so predatory, it's so evil, it's so sick, it's so hard to believe, it's so beyond any horror movie. imagine a horror movie 20 years ago. we're in the year 2022. imagine they had a movie in 2020 or the year 2002, predicting in 2022 that they would be up there saying: you don't know the terms as fine as an adult, your, your newborn baby, does. they're communicating with us. they want their balls chopped off. they want their penis cut off. they want their breast cut off. they want toxic hormones. okay, this is really liberal. what we're doing, this is really great. this is eugenics. this is depopulation. they can't kill you with an abortion or kill you with fentanyl or kill you with depression. all of us, he says. you know we stop the depression and suicide by letting the hospital run it. no, it's the people that have these surgeries the highest level of suicide and and when people come out and say I didn't want to be mutilated, I didn't want my breast or my testicles or my penis cut off, they get censored by big tech. because of the loving big tech- the same ones, it'll take two thousand five hundred dollars out of your account if you don't submit to them. this is a group of evil people that want to feed off children and want to hurt children. period. and as soon as you wake up to that and say no to that, we're on the path to victory and the good news is people are waking up. but I mean, this evil attack is so crazy, so sick, so weird, so bizarre. the average person's like the hospitals doing hundreds of surgeries a week cutting little boys penises off. they're cutting girls breast off. how do you even like? you're like what? listen, don't make them commit suicide. you're gonna make them commit suicide. they know they're gonna kill themselves. see that when they wake up, their balls are cut off, their penises cut off, their breasts are cut off. they've been sterilized. they're a foot shorter. they should have been. they're all screwed up. CIA could mind control. they're gonna commit suicide like, don't try to save them or you're gonna make them kill themselves. while they are killing them, they don't cut their hearts out like the Aztecs did. they cut their testicles off. they cut their breast off. they cut their penises off. and tomorrow I'm gonna play all of this and get more into depth. yeah, maybe we should play the clip of the young lady I see you guys put it on screen because here they are arresting mothers that criticize in the UK. gotta arrest those terrorists. nobody can say no. they didn't get her, they didn't get her uterus. she's still a woman and you'll find a man that loves you, sweetheart, you're a beautiful person. but they get kids depressed in this sick culture and they come and say: just cut your breast off or cut your uterus out and you'll be happy. I mean, let that sink in that this is what goes on America. if I went to the doctor and said I want to cut my pinky finger off, they call a patty wagon. but if I want to cut my penis off, I'm a smart, cool person. these are six satanic freaks that are tricking our children to do this and they're going to pay for what they've done. but forget the evil people. we've got to reach out to these young people. we've got to build a culture and a civilization. I mean, to be honest, I'm really not even their enemy. They just hate me for my free speech and my pro-human views. They actually look at me like hey, you're educated, you're smart, you're in good shape. They really don't want to kill me. They'd rather have a bunch of people like me running around. They see gay people, they see trans people, they see old people, they see fat people. They literally want you dead And, in case you haven't noticed, that's why all the propaganda is aimed at you and aimed at women's wombs and children. It's a population control agenda and when they see gay people having gay sex, like in the 80s, they literally wanted you dead, so they gave you a killer drug. I want to thank folks that got part one in the three-part Founder Series at 1776coincom or m4storecom, and the second installment is the Tree of Liberty Thomas Jefferson quote must be watered with the blood of patriots and tyrants. It's a coin I designed. end of sentence. stop Stop saying COVID. So this, this, this story, has that same energy, has that same vibe. COVID horror virus may cause brain damage, even in patients with mild respiratory symptoms. So you hear all this stuff about long COVID and COVID does this. COVID, COVID makes your penis shrink and COVID makes you lose hair and COVID makes you have brain damage and all this stuff. and- and I understand the immediate reaction to all of this, which which I tend to have as well- which is: hey, we've been lied to you so much about COVID, you've done so much fear mongering over COVID. I don't believe any of this crap. So part of me says, oh, brain damage from COVID probably just fear mongering BS like everything else. But see, here's the problem and this is why I say it's the same energy as COVID did this. COVID did this. no, the government did this. Let's say: everything they tell you about COVID is true. in regards to long COVID, or brain damage or penis shrinkage or all this other stuff they tell you, let's say it's all true. Well, again, COVID was made in a lab. it's a man made virus. So if you're going to be talking about how this virus acts differently than every other virus known in human history, and you're going to be talking about all these horrific long term effects and that's why you can't get it and that's why you should always wear the mask and never leave your house again and all this other stuff, Okay, So why aren't we mad at the people that created and released this on us? So what is the breakdown here? Oh, COVID is causing long term problems and brain damage and all this stuff. Okay, well, who's responsible? Who made the virus? Who released the virus? So it's all this fear mongering. If you get COVID, your penis is going to shrink and you're going to have brain damage so that you're scared to death forever. You never take the mask off, You never give control of your life or take control of your life back from the government. You give it to them permanently in this state of permaphore and then you never blame the parties responsible, the individuals that made it in a lab. So just remember this When they tell you stories about long COVID and lung damage and brain damage and genital damage and all this stuff. thanks Anthony Fauci and Peter Dossick and everybody else that knew that this came in a lab and funded this research in a lab and it's just: oh, fear over COVID. And that's me. And when it comes to gay issues, I'm not programmed that it's a gay. I just say: live and let live. You want to be gay, be gay. You want to be lesbian, be lesbian. You want to be transsexual? It's weird. It's strange, It's confused. I think it's mental illness. And if you want to be be it, You just changed my screen. So there we go, There we go. It's back. Now I can see what I'm looking at. So okay, you want to be transsexual, be transsexual. But number one: if it affects me, it's a different story. If it doesn't affect me, if you're gay in your bedroom, I don't see it, I don't care, None of my business. But you have no right. First of all, I've always argued about transsexual issues. You have no right to stuff men down by throat in a women's bathroom. You have no right to stuff men down little girl's throats in a locker room setting, in a sports setting, on a field trip setting. Men can't be women, Little boys can't be girls- And I had all my daughters. And you have no right to take little girls' scholarships away and trophies away when boys start playing girl sports. All of that is nuts. Number two: you have no right to stuff transgenders down the military's throat. You have no right to say transgender should be in the military, because if they're in the military, the reason why isn't because they're brave heroes, it's because they want free transgender surgery. sex change surgery costs 100 to $150,000.. Look at your screen. Aren't you proud of that? There's your military dollars in action. But here's the deal. This person could be whoever they want to be- strange, weird to normal people. but you have no right to take my taxpayer money and have a sex change operation in the military or in prison. No taxpayer dollars should ever be spent because a person's mixed up and confused what their sexual identity is. So I'm not anti-gay, I'm anti-all of that, which is ridiculous. Now along comes this new stuff that I had no idea that our children were being groomed in kindergarten, first grade, second grade and third grade. It's literally to be gay, to be lesbian, to be transgender, to change their sexual identity and to think that's a good thing. And I don't believe there's very many parents in America who approve of that Liberal or conservative. I think the Virginia election proved that while the mama bears came out and they elected the Republican governor of Virginia. that no one thought was possible. No one thought it was even possible. Virginia's become not purple but a blue state, But yet it turned big time red. they elected a Republican governor and an old Republican legislature. over the issues of critical race theory in school, school closures for COVID, masks in school, vaccines in school and transgender sexual identity education taught in school. All of that led to all the mothers of Virginia switching to the Republican Party. So if Democrats want to make this their hill to die on, as the saying goes, fame is saying- and I'm not talking about violence here, I'm not talking about murdering anybody. please don't misconstrue my words. a hill to die on is one of the most famous sayings in history. And if Democrats want to make this issue their hill to die on- I'm talking about the political party's death, I'm talking about their campaigns being destroyed- then you make it the hill to die on. I'm all for it. I'm cheering you, I'm gonna high five you. it's great. make it the hill to die on. make it the centerpiece issue of the Democrat Party that transsexuality, transgender identity, changing your sexual identification, gay and lesbian education from kindergarten through third grade should be taught in all the schools. you do that and you watch what happens, in November you're gonna lose all 50 states. you're not gonna lose 50, 60 seats in a house landslide, you're gonna lose 80 to 100 seats in a house landslide. you're gonna lose the Senate by 10 seats. you're gonna be slaughtered, politically destroyed, demolished. Disney will put all their prestige and credibility and power and money behind stopping the wonderful new law in Florida by Governor Ron DeSantis. that should be the law of the land. it should not be the law of Florida. it should be the law of every state in America that you cannot groom and brainwash children between kindergarten and third grade and it should be the law. you can't brainwash them between kindergarten and 12th grade in all 50 states. it's not a school's job to say gay is bad, transgender is bad or gay is good, transgender is good. public schools should stay completely out of politics and religion. it's none of their business. it's parents' job to teach children whether gay is good or gay is bad- none of your business. and transgenders, kindergartners don't need to know about it and it shouldn't be taught anymore. But the mayor, one minute to go, the mayor of New York City, Eric Adams, who was supposed to be a moderate Democrat, is now paying for a billboard campaign in Florida that if you don't like how they're treating you as a gay person, please move to New York. and I'm just laughing. first of all, there's no parent, no normal parent, in America that doesn't like this new law in Florida- none. so it shows that Eric Adams was a liar and a fraud. And suddenly everyone I've ever known in my life comes out of the woodwork and says: I saw you at Alex Jones today. That just tells you that Alex Jones is kind of the secret passion of so many people in this country who maybe don't brag to everyone in the world. they watch him because they're nervous of what people think. They're nervous to say I'm a Trump fan. They're nervous to say I'm a Republican or a conservative. They're nervous to say I don't support transgender education to kindergartners. They're scared to lose their jobs And Alex Jones is high up on that list They may be scared to tell the world. I watch Alex Jones every day, but they do, clearly, because I get as many people seeing me on this as I've ever gotten on Fox News or anything else I've ever done in my entire life. So that's the deal: Some of the stories that are important out there. remember, I said at the beginning of the show that I said the election was rigged and stolen in 2020.. And, of course, the media ignored it and told me I'm a terrible person and I'm a fool and I'm a liar. The election was stolen, the election was stolen. the election was stolen. And the number one thing you need to ask every Republican running for every office in America in every GOP primary coming up this year in the coming few weeks and months is: do you believe the 2020 election was rigged and stolen against President Trump and any candidate who says no or who hymns and hoes or whose talks in a circle and won't give you an answer, knock them out, never let them win. We don't want one candidate running for office as a Republican who won't admit the election was stolen. And why did they rig and steal the election? It's happening right now so they can brainwash your children with transgender and with sexual identity education, And so they could brainwash your children with critical race theory. And so they can mask us and vaccine, mandate us and lock us down for the rest of our lives. And so they can open the borders and let everyone in. So no Republican will ever win an election again and you change the demographics of America. So America isn't filled with Americans anymore, It's filled with foreigners who actually hate America and hate you and want to outvote you and give themselves welfare for the rest of their lives while you starve and the money's redistributed from you to them as an American citizen, to an illegal alien. and now you find out Black Lives Matter purchased $6 million Los Angeles mansion with their donors money. This is not the first time this has come out in the news. This was in the news this morning, but I've seen it 20 times in the last few months that the founders of Black Lives Matter, who started out with nothing, who are all communists, mostly communist lesbians, who hate men and don't want men to head households, and they communist, lesbian, black lives matter founders, suddenly have multi-million dollar homes, Lots of them. Where do you think the money came from? It's all fraud, Complete fraud. Here's another great story: California city to give universal income to transgender residents and non-binary residents, regardless of earnings. So Palm Springs has decided to give basically $1,000 a month to anyone who's transgender, even if you make a million dollars a year Because if you're transgender, somehow they believe you deserve it. I don't know, It's so bizarre. I always said affirmative action is absolutely absurd, because if it's racist to say you can't have a job because you're black, it's just as racist to say you can't have a job because you're white. and I'm going to give it to a black person who may not be qualified for the job, but I gave it to him because the color of their skin- and this is the exact same story- Because you're born transgender or because you think you've changed your identity and now you are non-binary? someone please Google for me What does non-binary mean? Are you a fish? Are you a frog? Do you think you could change from male to female depending on your mood of the day, and tomorrow you're a man and the next day you're a woman? I believe he has 80 million votes in the last election. Disney has made it easy to hate Disney. They have no one but themselves to blame. Disney has chosen a hill to die on. there's that famous saying. again, they want to overturn the new Florida law that stops the indoctrination of little children from pre kindergarten through third grade with woke sexual gender identity, brainwashing and transgender equality education. Keep in mind we're only talking about five to eight year olds. What parent could possibly disagree with stopping the brainwashing of kindergarten through third grade, five to eight year olds? What parent visiting Disney could possibly disagree, whether it's Disney World or Disneyland? What parent could disagree? You want to do that? Do it. America's a free country, But I hope she and her Disney board of directors and her Disney CEO and her Disney chairman of the board have no problem if I have free speech and if conservatives like me, tens of millions of us and Christians and patriots decide to never again visit any Disney theme park. There is the president of Disney television on the screen right now. She made a point of bragging that she has two children. One is transgender and the other is gender fluid. Folks, I don't even know what these mentally ill people are talking about and I don't really care. I just want them to keep their education away from my children. They're brainwashing away from my children And you know what else? They're strange children away from my children. ladies and gentlemen, immune wall, I think is beyond seasonal Beta-glucan olive leaf and more Immune wall, m4storecom, m4slivecom or triple-eight 2533139.. Welcome back. This is the center of the resistance, As we like to say down here in Austin. I'm Marlon Opples. We're entering the era of big trans, If you're wondering what that interesting expression means. a new report suggests that transgender ideology is being powered by $400 million from business and advocates. Transgender activists are, of course, the craziest people in the world Now. there are people who suffer from this horrifying condition- not nearly as many as who are diagnosed with it. But the question of the transgender lobby isn't about medical ethics or treatment pathways. The problem is that it has become entirely a political virtue signalling performance act, And it's become, as Time Magazine crowned it, the new civil rights frontier, with a predictable result: that expressing the correct opinion about the trans issue has become the new litmus test for whether or not you're the right kind of person, whether or not you are acceptable for polite society. If there was any doubt that the trans lobby is just a bunch of underprivileged, desperately miserable and highly vulnerable in need activists armed with little but Twitter accounts and their powers of persuasion, that has been conclusively debunked by a report that has tracked the flow of pro-transgender funding via donors and business groups, to reveal that $400 million has now been spent by professional activists to allow men to wander into women's bathrooms, to punish, to ritually humiliate, abuse, intimidate, bully and punish those of us who believe that medicine should not play second fiddle to political ideology. What do the studies show? They show that people who have this surgery have rates of regret that are astonishingly high. They show that the transition surgery that is being suggested for children by some doctors- doctors saying that prepubescent boys should be put on hormone blockers- This stuff is very upsetting to anybody who has children who is worried about their children being subject to this kind of ideology in schools- And I get emails from people who say: my kid's teacher in a public school is telling my child about transgenders because he picked up the wrong toy at playtime or whatever. They're excited by it, They're almost gleeful, They love this stuff. It's like, oh, I got one in my classroom. It's sick, It's horrible. And what the studies show is that people who have this surgery don't get better. That's going to have to come into place. for us to be a safe society, We have to have a Baker Act rules extended. Yeah, These officers need to be able to take people into custody who post certain things. That's the video from Laura Luma confronting the sheriff near the Florida shooting- Very tragic. Before the break. we're talking about the era of big trans, A new study that shows that $400 million has been used to indoctrinate the American population on the subject of transgenderism, replacing medical ethics and science with political ideology, Parents now being punished if they are insufficiently woke on the trans question. This is the new era of big trans. Joining us is Laura Luma, our intrapid reporter from the ground in Florida. Hello, Pumpkin, How are you? I'm doing well. That's why they hate gay conservatives so much, because they think they banked so much of their livelihood on this narrative that you know they're oppressed and they're whatever they have to like, loud and proud, And they've got this huge enemy on the right that's trying to take their freedoms away. Meanwhile, there's people like you and me and countless others who are like: no, we're conservative, We don't have any kind of a problem, What do you? what else you got? You know, here on the right, we're fighting actual battles that are far more important than the gay rights movement ever was, And that's what, as you, as you were mentioning earlier- the battles for the Constitution, for free speech and the First Amendment- far more important than anything the gay rights movement ever stood for, when you consider the consequences down the road. Right, I mean, at their best they made a half hearted effort, you know, for AIDS and whatever, But it was only when AIDS was taken over by the mainstream, by straight people, that anything good actually happened. It was only when straight people started caring that it became, that it became an effective protest movement And since then, being wrapped up in transgender pronouns instead of the threat of I don't know Islam, you know running out, It's transgender. All this transgender mania and Islam is driving. What do you think about? what do you think about? big, trans, big trans, huge. So there's a new, new report out says $400 million has been spent so far on transgender activism, And this is primarily led by big, big donors and lobbies and corporations. We've got to go in 30 seconds. Give us your opinion on big trans, the corporatization of the transgender lobby. It has nothing to do with men in dresses, has everything to do with breaking down the family, breaking down what it. constructivism, propagating constructivism and that deconstructivism, I'm sorry, And that you know. the family is not real, Gender is not real, Nothing's real. We can reinvent society, however. I've always enjoyed your style and grace and how you communicate. Thank you. Very articulate and very in the know and a diverse topic and you've been through a lot and I'm really glad you're out there championing for us. Thank you. Now I feel, with that being said, I feel safe coming out to you in this way And I look at the trans community. I look at transgender and trans species and trans race and everyone, And, as a Canadian, I think I feel like a trans nationalist. I've always identified as American. I love Donald Trump. I get persecuted for my beliefs up here, for embracing such a remarkable leader, And I don't think I could marry an American woman in a kind of time slot. They're changing the rules to get in the country, But I feel if I'm a trans nationalist, I should be able to cross the border with open arms and greeted by my liberal friends. I'm your host, Alex Jones. We'll have open phones again today and we have a jam-packed roster of key gas and more Coming up. we have Larry Nichols popping in for 30 minutes in the middle of the next hour, the Clinton insider on the fact that Trump's now coming out exposing the rape. And, of course, we have the big news that in a whole bunch of national polls- but two brand new ones- Donald Trump is now way ahead of Hillary Clinton because he took the gloves off against her. That is giant news. We also have Peter Schiff joining us to break down different developments with the economy, And we also have Blair White joining us, who is one of these individuals that is transgendered but critical of the whole leftist angle and bent to the movement. So that is coming up today. I don't want to miss this broadcast. David Knight will host the fourth hour. You know I could say: strap yourselves in, get ready. out of central casting he comes out and just salivates, salivates as they mainline. we're people too. be tolerant of us. next it'll be: let us teach your kids how we want them to live. let us teach your kids about sexuality, which the schools are already doing across America. state officials are rebelling- how dare them- against Obama's transgender bathroom decree. and here's the big one: Charlotte observer. that's the big newspaper. girls must overcome- quote: discomfort at seeing male genitals in the locker room as they integrate the showers all over the country. this is the mainlining of pedophilia, ladies and gentlemen, period. You look at how much of the murders come out and Jimmy Savelle and the death, and then the bodies fell in the royal family's palaces and all the dead bodies with the elites here. Folks, the raping kids is just the start. They kill them. Satan groups, satanic groups, will have women that stay behind closed doors and get pregnant and then you know they they have babies to kill them as well. I mean, this is who these people are and they're now coming out in the open. Oh, so a shocking editorial in the Charlotte Observer can counsel girls, to quote: get over the discomfort they feel at the side of Mel Genitals when transgender facilities are allowed in North Carolina. And then it goes on to say they will have people with genitals, penises in there with them. And of course, you knew this was coming and I'm going to get to the pit of it. Somehow this all just is in the same file. here at the office, Glenn Beck defends Mark Zuckerberg, attacks conservatives. It's unclear if he's gunning for the role in their PR department in the wake of the blazes financial difficulties, But even if it isn't, it's hard to tell the difference. Good day old ladies and gentlemen on this Friday Global Transmission. I'll be back this Sunday at 4-6pm, by the way, and I will be in the studio doing the show this Sunday. I have been mailing it in a little bit the last few weeks to spend time with my children. Larry Nichols is popping in in the next segment to talk about the bold moves of Trump that have put him into the lead in national polls against the rape gang that is the Clintons- Again, a bunch of rapists, a bunch of pedophiles. they're about dominating the human spirit and controlling it. Then we've got Blair White who is a transgendered individual, who is against the whole leftist takeover move that's going on. thought I'd have them pop in Peter Schiff on the economy. David Knight, You know a lot of people ask me you've outbursts like that earlier, or are an act, or if they're real. And let me explain what it is. it's real, but I'm letting the dog off the leash. One of those incredibly important items is nascent iodine. Prepare with Survival Shield X2 nascent iodine and get 20% off at InfowarsLifecom. Take action today. All right, Larry Nichols is our guest for the next 30, 40 minutes or so. then I'm going to get into economic news, military news, election 2016 news and so much more. This whole transsexual movement is actually a cover for a pedophile takeover, And I want to be clear. I don't think people that are confused and think they're a man or a woman are bad people. I'm not saying they're even the pedophile movement okay, because some people say that none of this ever happens, naturally because of chemicals in the water, things that are going on. This does happen to even other mammal species- fish, amphibians, you name it- But it's more than that. In most cases, it's people confusing children about their sexuality when they're young and it's an excuse to sexualize children. and that's what's going on with salon promoting pedophilia, with major newspapers like the Charlotte Observer saying girls must overcome discomfort at seeing male genitals in the locker room, as they now announce, from the sixth grade up. all over the country This is happening in different areas: Boys and girls taking showers in the locker room together. folks, This is a total assault, is another story up on info warscom. training Michelle Obama Lookalike causes confusion in public restroom. Isn't that an oxymoron to say a training Michelle Obama lookalike? Isn't that one of the same Michael Obama? That's what Obama says over and over again, And I love trolling the mainstream media every time I say that. they pick it up all over the news. Training Michelle Obama lookalike thrown out of women's restroom incident sparks bathroom debate and discussion over Michelle Obama. That's up on info warscom by Kid Daniels. So there are a lot of diverse people in all these movements and groups, but what's driving it? And so now they come out and they claim anyone who smiles at a black person is racist, Anyone who doesn't smile is racist, Or if you don't use the proper term of what you're supposed to call people, you're racist. And that's always changing to always make you guilty, always make you bad. And Eclipse he wants us to play. Blair is a social political commentator, the focus on feminism and social justice. He's also transgender and enjoys debunking the liberal fallacies about transgenderism that have become the mainstream narrative. And regardless what you think of this, they've only chosen this movement as their new civil rights movement to promote the government, coming in, in my view, and starting a gender debate that they want to define. So it's about the government being the parents and controlling the culture, And that's undebatable in my view. but we'll talk about it. But who says that? I saw your video and thought it was thought provoking, because this is inside the whole debate. It seems like these people are bullies, trying to order everyone to just do exactly what they say. But even if you submit every week, they're updating the new thing you must do. But even if you do that, you can't help the fact because you're, I guess, white, you're inherently evil, Absolutely. One of the reasons why I started my channel was because I was tired of being co-opted by these people. I think that unfortunately they've gained a monopoly on anything to do with transgenderism And it was just really frustrating for me. So I wanted to start my channel and sort of just provide just a different narrative, because unfortunately, their way of thinking and their way of looking at trans issues and anything in the world has become the mainstream narrative And if you go against it then you are blacklisted. basically, We see a radicalization here, just like with Islam, where the most radical get in control. so they're always one-upping each other on who can be the most extreme. Do you think that's kind of what's happening here? Humans are all about changing their environment. Humans are all about, you know, we wear clothing, so we lose our hair. I mean, the human experience is the fact that we are changing, and so I believe in people's individual rights to whatever they want, as long as they don't hurt someone else. but I really think that they have captured the trans movement and things like that that only started. what 40 years ago is very, very small, and now it's huge to drive a public debate that diverts people from so many of our shared basic freedoms that are being lost. Yeah, I think, like I said earlier in the show, I think trans people have really been co-opted by feminists and by social justice warriors. I think that there's a common misconception by people that transgenderism is an invention of third wave feminism, which is no fault or their own, you know. like I said, they've really gained a monopoly on the conversation. so anything you ever hear about trans people comes from them, and I think that it does a disservice to actual trans people because it sort of sets them up for an adversarial relationship with the world around them. I mean, the video that you showed of Milo Stewart, that I was doing, the response video to you know, telling trans people that everyone around them hates them because they're trans is just, first of all, disingenuous and, second of all, like I said, I think it does a disservice to trans people. Sure, it sets it up to make it militarized, militant and to create balkanization. Yeah, absolutely. and I think that it also drives, you know, people that aren't trans, in other words, the overwhelming majority of people, to think that we all hold these very crazy militant beliefs and, like I said, it's a huge disservice. Well, I'm glad you recognize you're being used as a pawn big time, and you know, all political groups to some extent have pawns. but I tell you, I don't know what you call the left today. I mean, they're constantly promoting pedophilia, they're attacking the family, they're attacking women that are in classical roles. It's really an anti-human group of people in my view. Yeah, and what's really interesting is it seems as if to me that transgender women are actually on the next chopping block to be sort of kicked out of the in-group when it comes to these people. There's been more and more people sort of expressing the view that trans women reinforce the gender binary and that we are problematic because of that. Well, that's right. they want to go to gender neutral. you're absolutely right. you're being completely set up. That's all they've got to fall back on is racial division and control. They think that is their ace in the hole And that ties into Martin Luther King Day and the abomination that was unveiled. We'll be getting to a little bit later over the weekend. that people when they thought it was a joke. from one side it's a person putting their face in a butt crack. From the other side it's a giant bronze penis, even when the penis had circumcised head being held up. And you ask why would they do such a thing? Why would they pay $15 million for that? Because it's all about ugly art and about a joke on us and that's why they do it. It's a declassified CA documents. so they need to let him know. If you run for president, the attorney general will indict you, Even though- but I'm supposed to be able to do that- it's his own branch guiding him. They don't care. It's the bureaucracy flexing its muscles. They'll flex them on Trump as much as they'll flex them on Biden. Also, we've got the latest transgender news. You're going to wait till you hear this. So much more coming up infowarscom. tomorrow is this day. Go to the book section and get your signed book. more and more economists predict the world is headed for stagflation- not just inflation, And the majority of economists agree the world is in a recession. We've already been having multiple quarters of this folks, So we are going into a worldwide depression and we need to be honest about that and exactly what the central banks have done. We'll also look at how they're trying to stoke racial division. in this country, Congress introduces a bill that criminalizes criticism of any non-white person. We'll look at Martin Luther King Day and this hideous new $15 million sculpture they unveiled in Boston. that is Martin Luther King's wife holding what looks like a 200-foot-long penis. So it's just all about flaunting it in our face. We've got so much on the whole transgenderism cult front as well. Big second and third and fourth hours today ahead of the War Room with Owen Shroyer, 3PM Central. I'm Alex Jones. You are the Paul Revere's, Don't forget that. Please share the link to infowarscom for our live show conspiracyfactinfo. I am literally desperate to stop this because we're all in this together. But I appreciate your support. But once people know the truth, Jeff, they can't do anything but fight, And I get it. The truth is crazy. They had a $15 million new Martin Luther King sculpture. that's a giant 80-foot penis. I mean, who could make It sounds insane? till you go see it, It's like it sounds insane. They have convicted pedophiles running drag queen storytime funded by Disney. but it's happening. they make it normal and oh, everybody's for this. so there's a video of your TV viewer of little Shirley temple, and then she's 12 years old and they march her in to a room where the head of the studio wants to have sex with her. and there's larry king laughing about it. so new york moves to allow biological males to be housed in women's prisons. that's the governor attacking women's spaces, attacking women in the name of women- monstrous. but they just bought a new martin wither king sculpture: 50 million dollars, a giant penis being held by the wife of dr martin wither king. transmiss universe owner. declares new era of global women's empowerment. here's this video where a man who's a woman, cheers. it says a woman now owns miss universe. and it was so hard for me to figure out what i wanted to start and lead with today because so many things that were discussed, at least on the portion of the show that i watched, um, we could start, for instance, with the albert berella clip where he's talking about the internet of bodies, essentially, and this new medical tyranny that makes sure what compliance you will take your medication. in fact, we will be playing that clip. you just saw the absurdity of a man talking about feminism and women's rights in a beauty pageant. well, i've got news for you. it's something we're gonna have to hit. the transgender movement is a transhuman movement and they want you to disassociate from biology and if you dare to question it, you are a bigot. if you think i'm wrong about that, we've actually done a much longer piece, but i would suggest that you check out, from transgender to transhuman, a manifesto on the freedom of form, where the very first, the very first paragraph is billions of sexes. now you know anything about the people at the top. they don't really want billions of people, but billions of sexes, you bet it tells you that there are not two sexes and that when this birthing process is through, when they have their agenda pushed, okay, it will be like labeling somebody black or white in south african apartheid and you could say: oh well, that's just some coop. jason who? who wrote that? the most powerful, rich transgender person on the planet? martin rothblatt. this is indeed an agenda. it is out in the open. this person has, uh, started their own movement and religion called teresim. he talks about conformity. he talks about a war on the poor class- doesn't matter if you're white or black. he also talks about betraying himself and not speaking out enough. well, if you were hip to what was going on initially during the covet 1984 nightmare and you tried to keep your head down, you knew that you were betraying humanity. step up now, come into the fray, because we got a ton of videos illustrating this. we're going to be talking about not only this virtual reality and this transgender movement that is a hundred percent backed by these people, but we're going to talk about automation. okay, and really i think, wolves in sheep clothing, trojan horses, all right, but but just to illustrate why this is important, let's take a look. uh, this is rothblatt and uh, the wife of rothblatt is actually a robot and an ai built for teresim. you can't make this stuff up, that that is a reality. they're saying that this person is the richest ceo woman ceo in the world. that's the route that Michigan and Minnesota are headed down and that's the route that the Democrats seem to be applauding. and as an outsider and as a Brit, I find it truly alarming and watch the left the name of diversity bring in something that's the opposite of diversity is a total mono tyranny. it's, it's mind-blowing. it is mind-blowing. and you always hope that at some point- the lizard- if I think of Democrats, which I prefer to as lizards- you hope one day that they'll spin so fast that the head will eat the tail, you know, and they'll die from blood loss to the head. and when I think of examples of this, I think of the trans movement, where we just had the World Track Cycling Championship won by a trans woman who's obviously a former male. and now we're gonna get to the point where women- I think you had it in Connecticut- the state championships to two of those races, the hundred and two hundred. let's be clear: these people still have their testicles. yeah, I mean, these are men and they have twice the strength, bigger bones, more blood, less fat. I mean men and women are different. and we have that with waxing parlors too. we have a trans individual in Europe who is suing waxing parlors because they wouldn't wax him as a female and they're trying to say: let adult men who say they're women shower with young girls because they'll be the girls coach. well, let the the. she's a woman. no, she's not. and Chris Cuomo said: it's bigoted if you don't want your 12 year old daughter to see a woman's penis. I see, that's two plus two equals whatever. that's mental illness. a woman's genitals, it's true, and we have men now that identifies women, who are now being put in prisons with our female population because they now identify as a woman. and then we have a. we had a newspaper report recently where the women in the prison were violated by the other lady's penis, and that was actually written in a newspaper. let's be clear: a woman rapes another woman with her penis and this is a. this is a family show. this is what they're teaching your five-year-olds right now: total mental illness. but this is societal sabotage. you know, Tabasco Institute cooked all this up. you know about. in this, you got to join the Mexican mafia or ms-13 and or they're gonna kill you. they are, they are making people get into these racial groups. yeah, you agreed a lot of. you know that photo that you're talking about, the students making the. the hand sign is really just them trolling and reacting to this, you know, to this oppression of free speech, trying to get a reaction, trying to push the envelope as far as they can, and these, these leftists, are pushing our culture so far over the cliff. the victorious secrets fashion show was just last week and now there's a campaign in order to include transgender women in the victorious secrets catalog and in the fashion show. obese women or fat women- I'm sorry that you're not even allowed to say fat anymore. that's so. that's. every culture, every society, every system that has its own culture is under attack. even though I hate Amazon because they rip off the authors and markets, almost nothing should go there and buy liberalism. find a cure, read it and then donate it to the library. a political act of resistance. mark dice, people have to stop apologizing to lunatics. we saw the mean. the head director of marketing for Victoria's Secret apologized for saying that he didn't want to have transgenders or that it it wasn't a problem that there were no transgender women in the Victoria's Secret show. and a day or two later they apologize on their official accounts and oh, it's so sorry and we'd love to have them in there, because, as Andrew Breitbart said, politics is downstream from culture. so if the culture keeps getting polluted, we're gonna see more and more laws that then prevent us from speaking out in multiple states- now California included. on your driver's license you can check that you're neither a man or a woman, just an X or an NA for not available, and we don't have any sort of standards for you know what? what is a transgender man or a woman? and if somebody could just self identify, what's gonna? what they're saying is: we control reality. men go in on purpose, spread their legs and say: check my cervix, check my uterus, and it's like you don't have one. and then those people are fired. this is brainwashing. when a cult says there is no mother and father, there are no genders, there are no mother and father, there are no genders, you're in a brainwashing cult. they want you to believe that two plus two equals five. and there's an organization that's lobbying Planned Parenthood and other abortion providers to stop referring to the women, the pregnant women, as women and, as you know, she and her, because a gender non-conforming woman went in to get an abortion and she was offended that they were calling her a she. and they're even saying that it's wrong to say that women have periods and men can get pregnant now. and if you even just use the caveat, you know a transgender woman or a trans to make the distinction between an actual biological, chromosomal individual. they're saying that that's discrimination and that's. and again, it's always more, more, more, more. and Kenny Hoppers was talking about at what point is there a limit? and I don't think there is a limit. I've already come to that realization that I really love my children. I have to move to the country and I have to literally disconnect from everything. it's true. I mean we are literally going to what the Amish went through in Germany and Switzerland 500 years ago. every day on social media or every week, there's these far leftist trending topics that are artificially inflated or astroturfed or paid to present. every time there's a new Disney movie or a superhero movie out, the liberals are upset that the characters aren't gay or that they're not transgender. they were upset when one of the new Captain America's came out, because Captain America and his best friend Bucky- they didn't have a relationship. well in in the comics they're normal, normal men, and even saying that heterosexuality is normal is considered to be hateful as well. because how dare you say that? that's, that that's normal. I'm a big nerd, I like writing books- is my third, 12th book, 13th book. I lost track and you know you can't help but look at what the levels are doing and and you really just shake your head and laugh at it, because it is in many cases impossible to distinguish what they're doing from sarcasm or from a parody, and that's why we're seeing some trolls on 4chan just making up certain things and saying that symbols and milk is a symbol of their white supremacy, and then seeing that being taken as serious. that's how crazy the culture has gotten. so we are in a culture war, we're in the information war and if we don't win this, then we're going to sink down into a dystopian nightmare worse than 1984, because the technology wasn't there like we have now and we've been seeing it get worse every day, every week, and you can only imagine what it's going to be. they may make it to a point where it looks like your viewers are watching your content or liking it or responding to it, but they're not even seeing it. and they may get to a point where if you just say you know, you don't, you don't think that a transgender- you know woman is- is a, you know, a natural woman and they'll ban you. just like last Christmas there was a race car driver who said: told his nephew that boys don't wear princess dresses. his boy, his nephew, was wearing a Disney dress. I after Christmas morning and he said: hey, what are you doing? you know like boys don't wear dresses. you're listening to the Alex Jones show. resistance to tyrants is obedience to God. it's Alex Jones. we are back live. this is the fourth hour of the Alex Jones show with me, your host, Paul Joseph Watson. I will be with you for the next hour and I'll be joined at the bottom of the hour by transgender YouTube commentator, Blair White. now she uploaded, she posted a video that was critical of black lives matter, and just wait until you hear about the hatred, the harassment that she received as a result. she was doxxed, her address was revealed, her family was targeted by these black lives matter extremists. but CNN told me, Sally Cohn told me, that this was a peaceful group. surely this can't be. go to Katie armor dot-com. that Cati armor dot-com. come and take it. you back on the Alex Jones show live after the break. we're gonna go to Blair why? popular new transgender YouTube commenter commentator. she made a video about black lives matter and was completely harassed, targeted, doxxed, had her family threatened. we're gonna get the full story from Blair why? but again, this is a peaceful group, CNN told me. Sally Kohn told me. we're ruining, we're wrecking their narratives simply by having people out there in the field shining a light on all this, so you can go and get the ghost smile sonic pro system, the ghost smile teeth whitening gel. those products are fresh in the info wars store. of course, the hillary for prison t-shirt, which is prompted headlines, appeared in news stories nationwide. we've got the one-year supply, the six-month supply of info wars life select- again amazing deals at info wars store dot com and it's incredible, incredibly important for you to go and support us because again, we're taking on the mainstream media and now we're starting to have success. you can see exactly where your money is going when you support us by getting the products at info wars store dot com. now we're going to go to our guest, who is Blair white, youtuber, transgender commentator. you can search Blair white on Twitter or YouTube. her accounts will come up and again, when this goes up on YouTube, we'll put the links in the description. now, Blair, you posted a video about a week ago, I think, called black lives matter is trash. you went straight out there with it, got in people's faces, basically with the truth. basically, what it is is: you know, black lives matter unless it's a black person who disagrees with you. because I saw a bunch of tweets from them towards that kid that you guys had on your channel and they were saying they were gonna kill him, beat him up, find his workplace, find his house. it was crazy and I saw like evidence on the Twitter that was doxing me and others, that people were actually like talking about going to people's homes. that's kind of the main reason why I went under. and then the LGBT thing, of course. like SJW's claim to care about trans lives, trans voices talk about how we're always silenced, but they care when trans people are parroting their agenda. they don't care when trans people have their own opinions with me which may differ from theirs. no, exactly, I mean, look, look at what happened with Caitlyn Jenny. you know, when she first came out last year, she was celebrated as a goddess by the left. they were like bow down to the goddess. how dare you even criticize or critique her lifestyle? so it kind of did just add on that, like the same day that black lives matter was descending upon me, all of these 13 year olds- of an easy on word to you, but again I wasn't really even thinking about the Anise on fans, it was more the black lives matter people who were actually, you know, potentially the most extreme, exactly, but again it's a peaceful group. while they're, you know, shooting at officers, houses and dropping concrete blocks on their head, they're completely peaceful. Sally Cone told me, CNN told me. now I want to switch gears. we've got a few minutes left. but transgender bathrooms: you know we had the big, massive, months long debate about the North Carolina bathroom bill, given that transgender people make up about 0.3% of the population and I don't really know your take on this, but they make up such a small minority of the population. why is there such a huge debate over this? why is it even an issue? why do you think the left is pushing this? well, what you're seeing is the politicization of transgenderism, which is so interesting to me, and it's actually one of the main reasons why I started my channel, because I saw what was once, in my mind, just a medical diagnosis suddenly turned into a social justice cause and into, you know, this political game. and, as far as the bathrooms go, part of me wishes we could just go back to the days where people didn't know what in the world being trans was, because trans people have been, you know, using their restrooms for as long as they've been around. I think that both sides were kind of dumb on that issue. I think that on one side, there was definitely some rape hysteria coming from the super far right, and on the left, on the left hand side, there was basically like really weird pushes for like gender neutral bathrooms, which most trans people don't even want. most trans people just identify as one or the other. they don't identify as genderless and something in between. so to me it was just a big, a big cluster f of things that I didn't even have too strong of an opinion on either way. so again it's. it's the left kind of appropriating the narrative from transgender people and then again using them to go after people who they disagree with politically. the point I made was that if somebody wants to identify as a woman, then make the effort to identify as a woman. I mean, you could go in a woman's bathroom at any point, nobody would bat an eyelid. I think the problem lies with the people who, just you know, wishy-washy, identify as different people from one day to the next, and that's that's when it becomes a problem, right? yeah, and I think that's the difference between what I call the tumbler eyes, the trans trenders, and, like actual trans people who have had a medical diagnosis and are doing the best with their situation. and the truth is, like you said, if you do make an effort, you should be fine. but it's the people who, like you said, willy-nilly want to go back and forth or say that they're a third gender or whatever those people. actually they're co-opting what trans is and they're actually making it harder for actual trans people. but again, we're such a small percentage of the population I've never been one to expect some huge, dramatic social chains to accommodate such a small group. yeah, exactly now we're coming up against the break. so, in the final minute, Blair, just tell people how they can find your YouTube videos, your Twitter account, etc. okay, so, first of all, my YouTube, which please subscribe. knowledge is racist. not agreeing with the corrupt government is racist. I. not agreeing with the flavor of ice cream is racist, having any opinions racist. but I'm just going to get this out of the way right now and then come back into the serious news. I saw these articles last few days and hadn't mentioned it, but I noticed that some of the White House. manipulated groups out there have been bashing me because in the past I've mentioned that I think it's wrong that they are trying to put men in women's sports because they say they're transgendered and that it's obviously a way to cheat sports, and the Olympic Committee says the same thing. but they say that I'm against transgendered. people know I really could care less. I understand it's about a big pity party and you're supposed to get all this attention and I'm supposed to hate you and then that makes what you do more fun. no, no, that's not what's going on here, but I just thought about it. should I get a big polka dotted moomoo, put a blonde wig on a fake mustache to make it funnier, smoke a big cigar and call Leigh Ann McAdoo in here and say: look, I'm transgendered. I'm gonna arm wrestle you and have a big, you know betting around the office and if people don't bet for her, they're against women. you, because that's bigoted to say that a man's gonna be a woman and then. and then I'm gonna arm wrestle her as a woman in beer, like Andy Kaufman who would do those stunts wrestling women, and people hated him for it. why didn't Andy Kaufman just wear a wig and say: with transgender, then it would have been okay. hey, Mike Tyson could go into women's boxing and he could put a wig on and smoke a cigar and that's the end of it. I mean, you know why? I mean, you know what? I think I'm gonna go out for the Olympic- I don't know how, about curling or something? and that's just some of the reports up on info wars dot com. and don't forget prison planet dot com. and you can follow us at real elix jones on twitter- on twitter as well, uh. but the first thing uh i want to get to when we come back is the whole divide and conquer situation, because i've only- i barely mentioned this and then had a lot of publications that i won't mention. just on them we mentioned they get more traffic than then they get in a week if we don't. you know, saying i'm anti transgender, no, that's not on my radar screen. i'm not anti anybody that doesn't hurt innocent people. you understand that i'm not anti anybody that minds their own business and doesn't try to run my life. see, they call it bigoted and hateful if you don't adopt the lifestyles and ideas and you know lollipop guild weirdnesses of the authoritarian, mentally ill left that really, by and large, are just a bunch of crazy control freaks that know that if they can get away with wild things, that get away with anything. so i'm going to explain that when we come back, because, uh, california, you'll pass this. and they're rolling the pentagon out against the people and shutting up all this face scanning surveillance and listening to our phone calls and saying the biggest terror threat is the tea party. and the pentagon is preparing for war and taking the children of casual marijuana smokers. are taking the children of people who give goats milk to their baby- uh, because, uh, that's known as the best milk if your child refuses your milk. on and on and on. just a manifest, predatory, tyrannical government in our face and instead the new rights arm. if you're transgendered, the, the, the taxpayers should pay so that you can have your genitals removed. or if, uh, you are a beach rat, as you call yourself, you should have a escalade and eat lobster every day. uh, off of people that do work. and, uh, it doesn't matter what you do as long as you're a good little collectivist. but we're going to swat team people who can't pay their property taxes and take their home and if they resist, we're going to kill them. but what do you want to bet? just like europe won't fluoridate and israel's getting it out. i thought israel, everybody says, runs everything. why were they being fluoridated before? because the same elites over there want their people dumbed down in an haze as well by or obsessed with things like this. california becomes first to pass historic transgender law. um cbs news: california law. let's transgender students choose restrooms and sports teams. and it's going to let girls be on the boys team and boys get to be on the girls team. that's right. so, uh, you're a guy with a mustache that weighs 250 pounds. that could bench press 300. uh, you're going to get to go be on the girls softball team or the wrestling team, and you know who all the winners are going to be. i'm going to come back. that's chivalrous, about a month, yeah, but i'm not going to offer 500 dollars. i have so much confidence in myself. i will offer one thousand dollars to any woman that can beat me. and see, he was hated in a month because he did this. but if he just said he was transgender, be okay. he's wore a blonde wig and a pocket out of dress. shut up, i'm talking right now. you. shut up, kaufman, i'm talking right now. i want silence when i say i'm transgender. again, here i'm another woman. get in here and fight me. by the way, the olympics they're now saying is racist. i'll just be quiet, because they found the south african runner is really her macrodite. slash alex. so all right, ladies and gentlemen, i apologize that i give you harvard studies that florida's brain damaging you and your family by design, and i apologize, as msnbc says i'm deeply racist, with no evidence that i've reported that the israeli supreme court has ruled that they must take the florida out because it is a carcinogen and brain damages people, and the source is the israeli health minister's office press release and haraq's individual and post. so i apologize for that racism. uh, i'm not being sarcastic. according to msnbc, that is racism and it's homophobic that, uh, that. to say that andy coffins should not have been transgender and allowed to wrestle women. i mean, you know, it's, it's the same deal. i mean, it's just madness, folks, they've got us all talking about. you know, kin, kin, one day a guy can come into the girl's bathroom, the next thing go to the boys bathroom or vice versa. it's all just the craziness of these, of the globalist, to get us obsessed with all these other side fights while we're all being annihilated by the new world order. yeah, yeah, exhibition fights: mike tyson versus women. you'd have to. you'd have to muzzle him, though, because he might bite him, but that's okay. women get the same rights as a vander holyfield. now, why don't we put them both in wigs? say they're both transgender? oh man, that's funny. is that what american drug wars are really about? you got, you got it. you always throw me for a loop. i'm always ready to come on here and i'm never ready. it's funny, that's funny, man. so you are endorsing mike tyson entering the heavyweight women's league as a transgender athlete. i hadn't thought about it until now. but, yeah, i'll endorse that. sure, i think i endorse it as well. next i'm gonna be a guest on- uh, on msnbc they'll go. we'll continue to follow what's happening in egypt and saudi arabia. this is big. that's globalist plan.The Washington State Senate just passed Senate Bill 5599, allowing the state to hide children from their parents. No allegation of abuse is required, just the child's delusional desire to change the gender of their own body. The bill compels state-licensed youth shelters to act as accomplices in castrating children without their parents' knowledge and allocates over $7 million to pay for the surgical and pharmaceutical castrations. According to this new law, if a child shows up at a youth shelter in Washington State and expresses the desire to change the gender of their body, claiming that their parents are against it, then the youth shelter is legally obligated to not notify the parents of the child's location, but rather to funnel that child into the destructive and horrific world of transgenderism, paid for by the state of Washington with taxpayer dollars. And it's not limited to Washington residences. Any young, confused, runaway child can now make their way to Washington to get castrated by the government without their parents ever being notified. The agenda to destroy Christian culture and the family was further demonstrated last month when scores of UN judges published the eight March Principles for a Human Rights-Based Approach to Criminal Law proscribing conduct associated with sex, reproduction, drug use, HIV, homelessness and poverty. The document states that these principles should be of immediate relevance to legislators, judges and prosecutors at all levels. These principles include the right to abortion and transgender surgeries. They recommend the legalization of prostitution and all drug use. But the real offense is buried at the end of Principle 16, Consensual Sexual Conduct, where it states that sexual conduct involving persons below the domestically prescribed minimum age of consent to sex may be consensual, in fact, if not in law. In this context, the enforcement of criminal law should reflect the rights and capacity of persons under 18 years of age to make decisions about engaging in consensual sexual conduct and their rights to be heard in matters concerning them. And the reason for this was perhaps best summarized by Communist Marxist Vladimir Lenin when he said: give me four years to teach the children and the seed I have sown will never be uprooted. Now let's hear from one of the soldiers of this cult of death. If you back a wild animal into a corner, they're going to become a dangerous animal. So if you want to die on that hill of yours of righteousness and moral majority, then you go right ahead. I dare you to try and stop me from going into a women's bathroom. It will be the last mistake you ever make. I dare you to try and stop a transgender woman in my presence from using the bathroom. It will be the last mistake you ever make. This is a call to action and a call to arms to everybody within the United States that are scared, worried, have children that are transgender, lesbian, bi or gay. This is a call to action. You need to arm up, plain and simple. Go out, buy a gun, learn how to use it efficiently, through and through, because the time to act is now. You need to protect yourself and you need to protect your fellow transgender brothers and sisters, and they's and them's. You need to protect the rest of us in the LGB community, as I'm going to do myself, because there are lots of people like me who are not afraid to die. I love my girlfriends to death, but I would rather die for them to secure their safety, freedom and future than to live and not have anything done. This is the army of Satan. You go ahead. It's about destroying the family and setting up a system based on pedophilia. That was the German government slash CIA experiment, The German experiment that placed foster children with pedophiles. Now you're like- well, that's just the German government Across West Germany. The program ended after the merger of Germany, but it's now gone operational. It's not hidden now, it's out in the open. Oh, we're not pedophiles, we're transgender advocates. We're going to form a sexual identity relationship with your child and guide them sexually in their life. I mean, if you were married to somebody for, say, five years, you loved them, they were great, And then you have a child, and when the child's six, it's a man or woman, be the husband or the wife and you catch them telling your son or daughter that you could be another sex or telling them that they wanted to have sex with adults. that's okay. You'd call the police, You'd divorce that person, You'd get custody. I'm going to get directly into the actual UN report. that's even worse and will legalize pedophilia worldwide. here it is: The Washington State Senate just passed Senate Bill 5599, allowing the state to hide children from their parents. No allegation of abuse is required, Just the child's delusional desire to change the gender of their own body. The bill compels state licensed youth shelters to act as accomplices in castrating children without their parents' knowledge and allocates over $7 million to pay for the surgical and pharmaceutical castrations. According to this new law, if a child shows up at a youth shelter in Washington State and expresses the desire to change the gender of their body, claiming that their parents are against it, then the youth shelter is legally obligated to not notify the parents of the child's location, But rather to funnel that child into the destructive and horrific world of transgenderism, paid for by the state of Washington with taxpayer dollars, And it's not limited to Washington residences. Any young, confused, runaway child can now make their way to Washington to get castrated by the government without their parents ever being notified. The agenda to destroy Christian culture and the family was further demonstrated last month when scores of UN judges published the 8 March Principles for a Human Rights-Based Approach to Criminal Law proscribing conduct associated with sex, reproduction, drug use, HIV, homelessness and poverty. The document states that these principles should be of immediate relevance to legislators, judges and prosecutors at all levels. These principles include the right to abortion and transgender surgeries. They recommend the legalization of prostitution and all drug use. But the real offense is buried at the end of Principle 16, Consensual Sexual Conduct, where it states that sexual conduct involving persons below the domestically prescribed minimum age of consent to sex may be consensual. in fact, if not in law. In this context, the enforcement of criminal law should reflect the rights and capacity of persons under 18 years of age to make decisions about engaging in consensual sexual conduct and their rights to be heard in matters concerning them. I mean, this is just next level, ladies and gentlemen. California bill proposes fines, jail time for those who harass teachers over gendered ideology and teaching. That means criticizing them at the school boards. Remember sending the FBI to the school boards two years ago? So this is very, very, very serious. Washington bill to allow medical transgender interventions on minors without parental consent. But that's not even the meat of it, It's the taking the child away. So that's just some of the information. Then we've got this happening. Illegal aliens who are LGBTQ, including children, may not be detained under Democrats' new bill. He can't talk. That's what they want, Total puppets. We have more universities protesting saying they don't want armed police on campus- Total idiots. That turns the campus obviously into a giant shooting gallery where these mass killers will go. But that just shows the abject murder of logic, common sense by the left. Also, House Republicans pass bill to ban transgender athletes and women and girls sports. We're getting more to that in a moment. And House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries says men and women's sports is an issue that doesn't exist. And he goes on to say it doesn't exist because there are no men in women's sports, Because when you identify as a woman, you are a woman. And now the University of Texas, of all places, two days ago announced that, along with a lot of other universities, that they're teaching in the biology classes- you're paying for this- a degree that gender has nothing to do with chromosomes and is not biological. let's play yesterday's clips and the new clips back to back. If you back a wild animal into a corner, they're going to become a dangerous animal. So if you want to die on that Hill of yours of righteousness and moral majority, then you go right ahead. I dare you to try and stop me from going into a women's bathroom. It will be the last mistake you ever make. I dare you to try and stop a transgender woman in my presence from using the bathroom. It will be the last mistake you ever make. This is a call to action and a call to arms to everybody within the United States that are scared, worried, have children that are transgender, lesbian, bi or gay. This is a call to action. You need to arm up, plain and simple. go out, buy a gun, learn how to use it efficiently, through and through, because the time to act is now. You need to protect yourself and you need to protect your fellow transgender brothers and sisters, and they's and them's. You need to protect the rest of us in the LGB community, as I'm going to do myself, because there are lots of people like me who are not afraid to die. I love my girlfriends to death, but I would rather die for them to secure their safety, freedom and future than to live and not have anything done. So you go ahead, You protect your kids, and I'm one of them. I've already worked enough in this lifetime. coward- Oh, I forgot to say TikTok. do your thing. Let's find out who this little coward is, this little clown shoe. Let's find out who they are. Go ahead, buckaroo, because they won't do a damn thing. When I tell them I'm a trans woman, they'll say okay, and they'll leave me alone. You want to know why? Because it's legal in my state, as a trans woman, to use the bathroom I identify with. Now come at me with another comment: honey, bunches of oats. I have a dilemma. as a trans woman, Which bathroom do I use? I don't want to make anybody mad, especially the haters. Do I use the men's restroom or the women's? The men's or the women's? Oh, no, not. I'm a trans woman and I will use a woman's restroom. And, honestly, there's nothing any of y'all can do. And those that like to comment: oh, I'm going to call the authorities, go ahead. It's legal in my state. There's nothing you can do. So they're the front lines of the cult: Brainwashed, crazy, obsessed with bathrooms, obsessed with children. And now in both Tennessee And in Kentucky it's coming out that they're suppressing the manifestos. but reportedly in both cases they were leftists who were anti-gun. and in the case of the Tennessee shooter, the woman who thought she was a man was mad about trans issues. You saw the media say, well, these are Christians and you better be nice to trans people or they'll kill you. You saw all these different Democrats come out and agree with that, including the spokesperson for the governor of Arizona. Officials in Tennessee say release of trans national shooter's manifesto was being stalled by the FBI but that they have talked to those that have seen it and it's because they were leftist. That's the same thing. Medicated Louisville bank shooter's manifesto reveals anti-gun motivation. In the last month I got a little busy so I didn't sign the books. We didn't have them for sale, But now I signed the last books. You can get them right now. Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. It's Alex Jones. We're going to go on your phone calls here in just a few minutes, but I wanted to finish up with a whole transgender news. hit some other news, then go to your calls. Illegal aliens who are LGBTQ may not be detained. under Democrats' new law- That is April 21st article, Fox News. When you actually read the law, the bill goes further- hasn't passed yet- by seeking to exempt several groups of illegal aliens from any detention at all. You can simply find the link and share it from the link that's generated from MadMaxWorldtv, But it's an hour and 37 minutes long. only play a few minutes of it. There are stories, trans kids at highest risk of suicide and regret from body mutilation, and they use the statistics of them having the highest levels of suicide murder. you name it mental illness and say, oh, it's your fault for not embracing it, as if you did this to them. Here's part of that report. It is the latest fight over transgender rights: Two rallies, two opposing messages in downtown Nashville tonight. I will do everything that I can do at the federal level to make certain that we protect our children. State Representative Elizabeth Guzman's proposal would make it a crime for parents who do not affirm their children's gender identity. Protesters in Texas rallying against alleged child abuse investigations targeting parents of transgender youth, By the way, hit pause. Hit pause and back it up 15 seconds. Make it a crime to not affirm. So they convince your seven-year-old at the public school or private school or wherever, or TV does that they're another sex. You say, no, you're a boy, you're a girl. See, Oh, it was just ban the N-word at first. Now, oh, you can't say that you don't want your child sterilized. You can't just not agree, You must affirm: What a cult, What a group of authoritarians. They mean business, Oh. and then states that investigate parents that are trying to get their kids sterilized at age six or seven, which you should be investigating those people? Oh, that's bad, That's abusive of transgender youth. Radical gender theory has progressed rapidly from the assertion that sex and gender are two different things, one biological and one socialized, to some asserting that biological sex is either not real or on a spectrum. We introduced some people who are called detransitioners. These are people who are choosing to reverse the process. Hormones do have implications. They have long-term effects, and they have. And of course surgery has lifelong effects. They're not reversible. Medical experts, including the American Academy of Pediatrics, say gender-affirming care is safe and best practice for transgender patients advise: Back it up 10 again. And these same groups told us it's safe for pregnant women to take vaccines and experimental shots, even though until five years ago they would all tell you don't do it, it's deadly, it's dangerous, They're lying, they're bought off and it's a wall of fraud from the top selling this death, Continue not to encourage children to change their names and pronouns. To everyone celebrating Transgender Day of Visibility, I want you to know that your president sees you And it's okay to ask questions about something that's very new and involves children. The answer can always be that anyone from a marginalized community is automatically right. trump card, mic drop. come back and take a ton of your calls, interspersed with other news, But let me just show you this. This is used in curriculum all over the United States. This particular curriculum was out of what Oregon Got, another one being used here in Florida And you've got to go read what they do for the children. This is done in the middle school. middle school Flash 2 edition, Identity terms. And they just say: What are you Female, queer, cisgender, gay, transgender, trans gender? You don't learn reading, writing or arithmetic. You learn this Gender fluid- bisexual, straight, male, lesbian. And then it goes into here talking about: Do you like boys? If you feel attracted, meaning friendly, towards them, it means you want to have sex with them. Anybody that has even a 50 IQ level has recognized that. he is still pushing the death needles and we know that these things are killing people, causing immune problems, and now it has also been shown that they are causing people's faces to begin to glow orange under UV lights. So if you have taken the shot or been exposed or had sexual intercourse or been around people that have taken the shot- I've seen those reports and I meant to get to that. Yeah, it's literally creating a prion matrix in the body. This is just so devastating, Yeah. so all of this transgender nonsense and all that stuff, it's horrible. It is blatantly in the face of the teachings of God and the Bible, but really it's kind of to distract us from the fact that they are attempting to mutate humans into something else and they can't hide it anymore. Some people have begun to display ultraviolet, sort of a bluish light on their hands in some cases, and this is real, unfortunately. And don't forget the magnets. The magnets right after you get the shot- 100%- are sticking to people. You know I typed. if you want to, I'll do a little infomercial for you. otherwise I'll get right to my question. No, no, do the infomercial, I'll hold you over. then you can make your political point, go ahead. You know I've been using all your products for years and after listening the past couple weeks, with all this transgender nonsense and everything going so bad in the world, I was looking in my cabinet yesterday when I was on hold because I had the day off. you need to start pushing the happies again. but I have Nitric Boost, I have your Nitric Oxide, your Real Red Pill Plus, Super Male Vitality, Winter Sun, you name it. I have it. and I just got the new Turbo Force Plus and I've been mixing it with the Vitamin Mineral Fusion, which the taste is absolutely phenomenal together. Yeah, and you know, everything was good at the Catholic school for quite a while and a new principal came in from Gonzaga Prep and Hold on, I don't want to cut you short, Hold for two more minutes. We're going to come right back to you, Okay, please, Jen. Yep, you got me. I noticed I went to you a little bit late and I'm sorry. My mother is a Baptist but also a sense of family that was Methodist, So she would go to the first Methodist to Austin that's been here since the city was built a hundred plus years ago And overnight they brought in preachers, like 10 years ago. that went from being classic liberals, anti-war, good people, to being like we're transgender, your kids belong to us. She taught Sunday school there, had to stop doing it, But then she went around and checked all the other major Methodist churches the same year to the same thing. It's the same thing. They hit us all at once. They're taking everything over. All right, Faz Man in Hawaii, I'm jealous. What island are you on? How are you doing Alex? Hi, I'm on Oahu. All right, brother, What's on your mind? Yeah, I want to talk about Michael Obama, talking about all this transgender stuff. No, I believe Michelle Obama is a man. We make jokes about it and stuff. But Joan Rivers said: look, I've seen Michelle Obama at the 2004 or 2008 Democrat National Convention And Michelle Obama has the shoulders of a linebacker And if you look at early photos of him with Obama, it's a man And absolutely. And then you learn in his own book, Dreams of My Father, he talks about how he was raised by a transgender woman in Indonesia. So, yes, I think this is all. I believe that Big Mike is Big Mike. Go ahead and make your point. Well, I mean, all we have is the Joan Rivers video. Well, let me make your point, because I've been interrupting. I don't know what your point was, But have you seen them come out of Harvard or whatever school? they put their daughters in, the supposed daughters that look nothing like Obama or nothing like Big Mike, that reportedly are adopted from another family? The point is it's the Truman Show. Have you seen Michelle Obama Guys pull up. Michelle Obama comes out of university in large penis and pants- I think that's what it is- And, look, we all know what it looks like when somebody's not wearing underwear, Okay, And Michelle Obama walks out, They get in the car, She comes downstairs, He comes downstairs And it looks like a giant rubber snake is in her pants, Okay, And you can see it bouncing up and down. You can see the testicles right through the pants bouncing around, bigger than Dallas. Okay, And I haven't covered this in years. You just called in about it, so it'll take us time to find it, Guys, Michelle Obama, man, Yeah, here it is, Here it is. Now slow this down and blow it up, Okay. You said you can't just go up with Joan Rivers. You're the one that raised it. But I mean I just showed you. Obviously you're not watching. I just showed you video of Michelle Obama adjusting. clearly a flaccid penis and testicles bouncing around, And anybody that's a guy knows what it looks like. I appreciate your call. Since you mentioned Joan Rivers, she died about a month after she said this. Here it is: The United States will see the first gay president or the first woman president. We already have it with Obama, so let's just calm down, Got it? You know Michelle is a trans- I'm sorry, she's a what A transgender We all know. We all know And I don't hate Michelle Obama because she was a man that wants to be a woman. It's that I hate the policies of Michelle Obama And let me tell you nothing pisses them off more than I was talking about this, nothing. There's a bunch of other videos, but I really don't want to air videos of Michelle Obama's junk bounced around, Like now that I started thinking about it, there's like 15 other videos more that I mean it's just bam bam bouncing around. I mean give me a break, man, Give me a break. Okay, Like I said, if I was a woman- and I'm not packing the Tyrannosaurus Rex, you know, foot long like- uh, it's not, you know not small, but it's not, that's probably flaccid. six inches in the pants Probably got a foot and a half long penis there, I mean that's. I mean big Mike's, got big Mike and star in major porn movies here, And so if you saw me at the beach and I and I was dressed up in a wig and stuff, but you could see I got a bulge in my pants. I mean, come on, man, I'm a man, I've got testicles and I've got a penis, Okay, And you can see, if I'm at the beach, even in baggy shorts or whatever, that I've got something in there. Well, I mean, Michelle Obama has got an Anaconda in his pants. I mean it's ridiculous. The guy's walking around with a giant ding-a-ling bouncing around and we're looking at the damn thing and they're like two men can have a baby. The shot works. And I saw this video a few days ago and actually read about this two years ago when Gates was trying to bring it forward. And the government doesn't even do a process of approval. now He runs it, They just bring it forward And it's a bunch of estrogen, mimicking liquid plastic chemicals that they synthesize out of plant Protein. so they go: oh, it's just a plant product, It's safe. Well, you can take a plant or oil as well, anything that's carbon, And you can make whatever chemical you want by manipulating it. So it basically is a transgender cocktail, And I told you about this 20 years ago or more. And of course, now it's mainstream news that the chemicals and food and water are manipulating our endocrine systems, making men effeminate, making women hyper effeminate, And the left spins that goes since it came out. Well, let's make women more powerful. Well, no, it makes a woman age. So a woman goes into puberty at five instead of twelve And then she goes to menopause at thirty five. thanks for calling, thanks for holding. you're on the air. Hello, Yes, welcome, Hi, hi, Alex, It's taking me a long time to do this. I'm really bad on the phone. Well, you sound good, so tell us what's on your mind, Alright, so I've got three things I just wanted to go over really, really quick and then hang up because I'm nervous as hell. Okay, so, on the joking side, Kamala Harris is a man as well as Big Mike, And, on that subject back in the day, wasn't a transvestite a man that dressed up as a woman, As in today's world, even men with you know slongs are still considered like they're transgender. Isn't there a wash there or I don't know? that was the first subject on the funny side, Right? so, Alex, you've given me hope on days that I thought you know we didn't have any as a human race. Are you still there? Why don't you have a message your cousin? You know I love you and I want you to live a happy life, and I don't know what you're going through, but I don't think taking drugs and surgery is going to fix what the problem is, And if you ever need support from me or our other family members, we're here for you. I interrupted you. You said it's affecting you personally. Continue. Yeah, No, the issue of like transgenders and affects me personally because I see, I see my classmates and, like I said, my cousin and I really want to know how I can help combat it in my life and prevent my friends from being Well. I mean, it's a cult. They're trying to suppress those that have been hurt and just explain that it's a whole eugenics called targeting disadvantaged youth and confuse people and that it's a depopulation plan and just know that it's going to blow up in their face just like metaverse, like everything else. they push and just speak out as much as you can and then go speak at city council as a young person and then everyone will talk about the school. You know you're calling in to talk radio right now. So I wanted to just say real quick that I've been calling my representatives here in Texas And there's their clueless about what's going on with cattle and the MRA. So they're not doing it yet with the cattle except test. They've been doing it for four years with pigs. Right, Right, And there, there, there was a new article that came out today and it was from whole cows dot com And it says there are states that that are considering legislation, including North Dakota, Tennessee, Arizona, Idaho and Missouri, And legislation to block it. Yes, Right, Tom Ramsey, the tip of the spear on that. And we're banning transgender garbage after kids. We are fighting back, We are winning. Just if I could say real quick: any any of the employers, if y'all could please call your reps. I don't want this in my food for my kids, my family. Just please call your reps, Let them know because they're freaking clueless. >>. I'm not just I'm not to get back to this to make a joke. It's just so ridiculous how you've got these allegations against President Trump with with no real groundwork, no real legal case >>. And then we have videos of Michael Michelle Obama, literally with something flopping around in her private areas. I'm not saying it is or isn't anything, I'm just saying we've got the video and we get nothing on that And there's nothing wrong. Hey, if you want to do that and do whatever and be Michael Obama, then that's perfectly fine, or Michelle Michael Obama, or Mooch, whatever you want to call her. >>. But no, the president's bad, even though he's the one cleaning up the Obama mess, trying to make America first again. Roger Stone will be on the war room later today. We're going to be joined by Jack Posobiec in the fourth hour. Just go to InfoWarsStorecom, select your favorite product or products, click on AutoShip and choose how often you want us to send you another order. As you know, I coined the term 360 win and with the new AutoShip feature at InfoWarsLifecom, this is a sure win: 10% off on AutoShip- Win, win, win at InfoWarsLifecom. Free shipping on orders above $50 and all out of stock items are never out of stock. when you sign up for AutoShip, You're listening to The Alex Jones Show. [Music]. I'm going to have a little fun talking about Mooch, Michael Obama's codpiece. but then you're reminded how sick and twisted it really is. folks. "Satanic-looking drag queen with horns reads to little kids at Michelle Obama Public Library in Long Beach". This is beyond twisted, this is beyond weird, this is beyond sick. This is quite literally a satanic ritual. There's the picture of "Zoochie Moochie", a transsexual, that read to children at Michelle Obama's library. today. Now most of our audience is on the radio. so basically, this transsexual, I guess man-turned-woman, I really don't know- it's "Zhee". what are we supposed to call these people so we don't go to jail? "Zhee"? "Zhee" is wearing a dress and some fine jewelry. it looks like a cape or gown or something, some crazy red hair. but the strange part here, the whole thing is strange. the strangest part is caked on makeup on the face to look demonic and then five horns coming out of the head. So a literal headdress with horns caked on with makeup. transsexual crossdresser is reading to children at the Michelle Obama library in Long Beach, California: "Zoochie Moochie". now here's the flyer: "LGBTQ History Month at Michelle Obama Neighborhood Library". Why do you think Michelle Obama's having this at her library, folks? It's transsexual. Okay, that's a man, Or it was a man? No, it is a man, Michael Obama. So Michael Obama. now Michelle Obama hosts LGBTQ History Month at her library because that's the community that her and her husband are a part of. there's nothing wrong with that. If Barack and Michelle are in that community, that's perfectly fine. I have no problem with that. they allow this. Pull up Zoochie Moochie's Twitter real quick, guys. Or pull up Michelle Obama's codpiece. Either one, It really doesn't matter. This is all you need to know. Okay, Michelle Obama hosting the LGBTQ day because she's part of that community as a transsexual, and then has a cross-dressing demon. speak to kids at her library. Why do you have a cross-dressing demon speaking to kids? Is that normal? Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium. it's an open secret. Everybody knew about it. Well, oh, and we've been the ones that have been sounding the bell since for years that this sort of stuff was going on in our country and in our culture, because there's a second layer to all this stuff, And yet we're reporting it. We also want to ask the question- And that's why I love InfoWars is because InfoWars will ask the question: is this the right direction for our society? Yes, someone needs to at least bring this to the attention of parents that may be sending their kids to the library while this is going on. I mean, OK, do you want your kids to be sexualized by a drag queen and a transsexual? That depends if you want to follow Michelle Obama or not, But it's strange, Zuchi Moochi, And again, it just, it's just it lends to everything we've been talking about: how they want to sexualize the children. They want to bring this demonized culture, like literally satanic culture, into the mainstream, have it at public libraries and just pass it off as normal, accepted. This is just the norm. now, Yeah, You look what they do And you look at how they go after our institutions and our traditions. We evolved from monkeys, That's all. we are baser instincts And we need the AI chips or else we're not going to be able to. How would we be able to live? No, no, no, no, no, I figured it out. See, Jack, you. you have been awfully intolerant of the LGBTQ History Month at the Michael Obama Neighborhood Library. You've been very intolerant from the drag queen story hour. So what we're going to do is we're going to put a little chip in your brain. We're going to fix that intolerance, Jack. we're going to fix that. today, Society is collapsing around us. every form of crime and degeneracy is exploding off the charts, not just in the United States. worldwide, We are a fallen civilization and it's only going to get worse. Yesterday, as the mass shooting unfolded in Tennessee at a school where darling little children and others were killed, I did not comment on the broadcast other than saying that the shooting had happened because I wanted to give it time to see what unfolded. but Scott, the producer, walked in right when it happened and he said: how much money you want to bet? This is a transgender person and that's because now, about 80% of the time, the school shooters are transgender and the media tries to cover it up. but we've got a bunch of the examples here of this happening and they already take quasi autistic people or mentally ill people and they hop them up on a bunch of wild hormones and then they wonder why they have the highest rates of suicide, one of the highest rates of crime out there. I don't hate transgender people. There are a lot of people that are transgender that are really nice, like Blair White, who's a very sweet, smart, good person, and I think she believes she's a woman and acts like a woman and if she wants to be a woman, she can be a woman. She doesn't want to go compete with women in sports, any of that stuff, but crazed men beating women in sports and women all hopped up on men's hormones now committing mass shootings. I mean, women never commit mass shootings. In fact, it's never been heard of and now it's happening and these people are incredibly lost and it's really a demonic spirit where they feel led to go kill innocent little children. And that's what happened yesterday and it's just hard to believe this stuff actually happens. That's even more unbelievable than them staging it. I mean, it's just the incompetence and the bureaucracy of some of these police departments. It's like with the tower shooter back in the 60s. Cops didn't wait, They charged up those stairs and they killed that guy while he shot at him. So the answer is: guns in school, especially Christian schools, are targets. Tucker Carlson predicted it on last Friday show- or was it Thursday show- where he said the transgenders are arming up and are probably going to start mass shooting people. And now they're announcing International Day of Rage on April 1st, where they're promising to have a violent uprising And the left, by the way, has been defending the attacker. The fight against the New World Order is now the top story in the world. The globalists are in deep trouble, but they're striking back with all their deep state operatives to shut down Infowars and other truth tellers like James O'Keefe, Tucker, Carlson and countless others. So please pray for us now more than ever. Enrich your life, empower your body and keep us on air. Please take action now. Infowarsstorecom Crashing through the lies and disinformation. it's Alex Jones coming to you. live from the front lines of the Infowars. Ladies and gentlemen, transgenderism is a Tabistock Institute, MI6, CIA creation to launch the transhumanist movement. Because if you'll accept a man being a woman, a woman being a man, if you'll accept two men having a baby when it's two women, or a man and a woman, if you will accept that you'll accept chimeric humanoids that are made out of three or four dads or two or three moms, or a mix of other people which they're now producing and making for decades in test tubes, you'll accept the entire globalist agenda. I do not hate people that are trans. I do not think that the average person that is living like that is a mass shooter or a bad person. That said, the entire movement is a synthetic creation for depopulation and to totally confuse society and break up the family. and that's admitted. And the same leftist movement worldwide, funded by the big corporations that force feed this, are openly saying now they want to euthanize children without parental consent. So it's all about killing people. And if you can't sell killing babies out of the womb, well you just call it a transgender surgery and cut their breasts and their genitals off And then you get people caught up in this cult. caught up in this is your identity. this is why you're confused. take these hormones, do this and then, statistically, they are the most unhappy, suicide-prone people everywhere, anywhere. and we're told it's because you're not celebrating them, You're not accepting them, Why they went on this wonderful path at the public school or the system put them on, in some cases when they were two years old. now the trans cult says they know when a child's born at birth that they're trans. Well, it's not the fault of the system creating this nightmare. No, no, it's your fault for not worshipping it and rolling out a red carpet to it. So let's be clear, where I don't blame the average transgender person or say they're a bad person or judge them, the big think tanks, the intelligence agencies, the transhumanist, Julian Huxley combine is the group running this. their fingerprints are all over it, they're the authors of it, they admit they run the whole thing and it's the leading edge of the wedge to bring in transhumanists. humanoid, cyborg future that we're being told is the future and that the future isn't human by all the high priests of the globalist system. Now, that said, we're going to drill into what happened in Tennessee yesterday and the announcements all over Instagram, all over Twitter, all over Facebook, all over everywhere of saying, well, this is what you deserve. I've got the articles and pronounce right here: because you were mean to the transgenders in Tennessee's passing a law saying you can't sterilize little children. So, because there's this horrible abuse, the trans communities being weaponized by the deep state, by the Twittersphere, to now believe that violence is the answer. and you see it everywhere: them calling for the death of JK Rowling, for saying biological women are biological women and women's sports are women's sports. and a bunch of footage I didn't get to yesterday of Alex Stein being physically attacked at one of these cult events that he went to and a big activist who's very well-spoken and non-violent in New Zealand being physically attacked and barely making it out of their lives yesterday or I guess now two days ago. and if there's drag queen story time with little children being taken, we're half naked. they tell you we're going to kill you, we hope you die. So they are completely whacked out, many of them. and there's a pedophilic vein that runs through the center of the entire mess, because it's bigger than just wanting to sterilize children. it's about the spiritual energy in and around the destruction of a child's future and or a child's life. And this whole thing has a hunger to go out to Christian churches and Christian schools and murder Christians and murder children. So the trans cult is about murdering the future of a child, murdering their fertility, murdering their body parts, having giant fat men dance around naked in front of children- The giant, obscene, disgusting cult at the top with a bunch of brainwashed lemmings at the bottom, in the middle, including- and I've had members of parliament on from the UK about this a decade ago- the majority in the UK of transgender children are autistic And if you cover the drag queen times and the drag queen pedo times, like we have, you notice that the women look like that, are there bringing their children, look like they're mutants- And I'm not trying to be mean, they just all look like they're dying And their children are almost all completely And it's very sad but they're howling, they're barking at the moon, they're chirping, they're flappy-handsing- all the classic autistic stuff. There's even kids there with football helmets on. you know they're bumping their head into the ground and they're just rolling them in like here's where you're loved, here's where you're accepted. here's some fat men dressed like it and a clown, many of them convicted pedophiles. And this is just the army of evil rolling forward. So just six, seven years ago, the big thing was just give us gay marriage and that's all we want. And now they attach to gay marriage and gay men. men dressed up like clowns, sexualizing children, scantily clad and cutting little girls' breasts off, little boys' penises off. I mean, this is a real cult. but they got the bandwagon going, you see. and now it's bestiality, now it's Satanism, now it's a culture that has the bottom falling out of it. And so there's all these calls here for the International Day of Rage of the Trans People, And men that think they're women and women that think they're men, out with sandwich boards, with images of rifles, saying trans rights or else. Now we played the clips many times. I'm not going to play them again. but the different universities rubbing their hands together. the university medical center is going. we make $40,000 cutting a girl's breast off. We make $30,000 cutting a little boy's penis off. It's our biggest growth industry. And they're convincing young children that they're another sex. they put them in a file, they put them on a fast track for destruction. and then now the numbers are exploding everywhere because there's all these alone confused people that play video games all day and are on a bunch of different psychotropic drugs, who don't have an identity because they're not outside hiking, they're not working in the fields, they're not learning things, they're not playing sports- We all know who's being typecast for this- and they take these really abused, hurt little children and they throw them in the deep fryer of the transgender cult and then they're pissed off. Hey man, it's the Christian school I went to. that's why I'm so unhappy. They didn't recognize that I was really a man and so I'm going to go in there with my transgender manifesto. and we now have the comments from Audrey Hale, this totally confused young woman who went by Aiden, all dressed up in her man's outfit and doing what she thinks men do, Why men go and they mass shoot. Never before had a woman do a mass shooting. have we Saying: this is the end of my life? this is not a joke. And this person thought the way to die is to go kill little kids. I want to tell you first, because you are the most beautiful person I've ever seen and known my whole life. My family doesn't know what I'm about to do. One day this will make more sense. I've left more than enough evidence behind, but something bad is about to happen And as they hype the mass shootings, they will increase and they will get worse. because mentally ill people are now taught: you don't just become transgender, you go out and you shoot and you kill people. And now the majority of mass shooters that are technically the totally senseless type is the FBI. averages in gang shootings that are at schools then says: well, half of them are black on black or black on Hispanic or Hispanic on Hispanic. But if you take those out, that are gang shootings and you just have raw going to school, shoot a bunch of kids. this is it, And they fight to hide that. So again, please take action. Go to mfoolworthstorecom today And I thank you. Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the new world order, It's Alex Jones, From the front lines of the information war. It's Alex Jones. The stated goal of the mega corporations and the giant private foundations that control them is ending the human family as we know it and making us atomized, dependent corporate products that they own. They want to sell us on accepting humanoids, human animal, cross species, all this garbage everywhere that they've been developing in the dark and they're now rolling out, And the first thing to destabilize us was to break up the family, demonize the role of men, attack masculinity, attack true femininity and then bring forward the transgender cult who again are unhappy and depressed and committing suicide because they're in the jaws of this meat grinder. And then the system goes: look, you're unhappy because they're not accepting you. And the more we try to accept, the more we feed our children into this meat grinder. why, the more we've got to do, the more we've got to comply, the more we've got to jump through hoops, Because, after all, you want these people to be happy, don't you? The great society and the letters are public. you got guts. you got a brain. you know. And all the trans talk about violence. if you keep killing us and making us commit suicide because you don't accept us when we're like, you can do whatever you want, paint your hair however you want, have sex with whoever you want, as long as they're a consenting adult. You think I'm actually running around thinking about trans people all day or hating them? No, I'm not. I'm a live and let live guy. But in the roaring 20s in Germany they had the transgender movement that spread worldwide from there. That picked up later in the 60s by British intelligence And it is the hallmark of a society before it collapses. And the system knows this, so they've accelerated it. In the 60s and 70s they did the famous rat studies, where they would have contained cities of rats and give them all the food and all the water they wanted And within three generations, the males become trans and the females become the bosses And then, within another generation, they all just start eating each other or committing suicide And then, within about eight generations, there are no rats left. We've done whole shows on that. That is the last thing that needs to happen And we need to upfront say we do not want that. People are going to want to avenge these dead kids and other Christians. Christians are being targeted, But there's a time to turn the other cheek And the trans cult minions and gremlins of the system should not be harmed. They should be arrested if they hurt children or get caught doing pedophilia or any of that. We should pass laws. They can't target children, But we do not need anybody to go attack one of these events or attack any transgender person. And let me go further. I'm not calling for violence, But if you want to know who does all this and who created all this, the history of it's on record. So I want to target those groups by exposing them and call for legal action against them: The big hospitals that push these surgeries, the Tabestock Institute, all the different leftist groups, Hollywood, Disney, that are funding it. withdraw your money from these people. You're going to work for them now. I mean, it's so fantastical and it just shows there is no bridle on what these people do now. It is just. this alone is bigger news than the shooting. The shooting is terrible. The transgender story is integral to the whole new world or takeover. It's all very important, But this tells you where the future is going- And we knew it a long time ago. We talked about it- where there's all these devices in your house controlling your thermostat, controlling you, watching everything you do, carbon taxes reporting back on you, the home assistants watching and listening to you, including a little robot vacuum cleaner. They're not selling you that vacuum cleaner at cost because they like you. They're selling it to you because the data they sell off of it is going to make them 10 times what the purchase of the vacuum cleaner made Like. This isn't about: oh, let's ban TikTok because they spy on us and jump in your devices. It's that the Chinese are competing with what the globalists are doing. I say: ban it all. But let's get back to Tucker Carlson. Here's Tucker Carlson being criticized last week, on March 24th, all over Rolling Stone, you name it, This one's LGBTQ nation. Tucker Carlson is afraid gun-toting trans people will start political violence. And then a few days later, three days later, his prophecy comes true. So here's Tucker from Friday. and then it happens on Monday. Here's part of the report. This seems like an incitement, and it's everywhere. Oh, the LGBTQ XYZ is under attack. Oh, they're mass shooting us. None of it's true. Well, let's just go out and kill some little kids in an elementary school, That'll fix it. And then you look at the last few shootings at LBGT XYZ events and it was transgender people- I showed you the articles earlier- who were mad at their boyfriend or girlfriend or something, And they're just whacked out on psychotropics and Xanax and hormones. And you look at them. you know green hair all wild out And you're like this is what you do to people, This is what you offer, This is your wonderful new religion for us to all bow down to. And you want our guns. And I've talked to some of the big gun shops here in town that I visit, like the local shooting ranges, and they tell me the majority of their customers now are liberals, since Trump preparing for civil war. Get off me, Get off me, Get off me. And they feel entitled to be violent. You guys should be ashamed of yourself, And I've got the articles right here with major trans organizations saying: well, you know, the killer's a victim too, Because you were mean to him- her. So let's go to Alex Stein now to talk about this. Couldn't be a more timely time to have him on. We've got Minnesota lawmakers advanced transgender reps legislation that could strip custody from parents who don't support child's transition. Canada's trying to take kids from parents that don't want them to commit suicide. I mean, this is a death cult. I'm wondering how much more obvious it's got to get Alex Stein. thank you for joining us. Love the set, Love what he does, Love the fact that he's just reaching more and more people. Alex, good to have you here with us. Well, it's a pleasure. but let me talk about the real elephant in the room, Alex, that nobody's talking about. So we see levels of autism today from an MMR vaccine, measles, mumps, rubella, that the pharmaceutical companies will even say that correlation does not equal causation, when the alarming rates of autism. And now, if you actually look, and you actually look at the mental health studies, a lot of these people that identify as non-binary or transgender are high functioning autists. You'll see now in the media they're talking about Aubrey Hale is a high functioning autist. So that is the crux of this problem is that we're basically enabling people that are actually mentally challenged. It's even stronger than gender dysphoria. They're actually suffering from autism And that is why this society is getting so bad, because the increased rate of autism is going to only increase the rate of transgenderism. You just hit the nail on the board. a decade ago I had a liberal member of parliament on who found over half the kids they were having transition were autistic. They know, once you get an autistic kid to obsess on something and give them attention, when they're like six or seven or even younger, they then tell them: you're a boy, you're a girl, they're really the other. That becomes their identity. I'm just sad that a poll that these politicians are trying to ruin America put a stain on America by potentially arresting Donald Trump for a misdemeanor crime And the problem is that puts a stain on the whole entire country, Alex, That makes us look bad. So we're shooting ourselves in the foot And I don't know we're going to keep shooting ourselves in the foot until we run out of metaphorical bullets. at this point I want to talk about a young turds clip. when we come back. It's up on Infowarscom Just days before the shooting in Tennessee. he told trans people get guns because the right wing is coming to kill you And we're not killing any of these people. And I mean the point is, is that they're literally being told they're under attack. So they come out, attack us. It's just, it's so sad And you know people are getting mad at me. They want me to press charges out. I'll be a little bit of a hypocrite here, but it's not. I'll explain why I'm saying it. I don't like guns. I would ban assault weapons in a second. We can go on and on about the gun control that we need in this country, And I always tell people: don't get guns, it'll make you less safe. I'm gonna make you an exception here for trans people. They are actually in danger. They have had hundreds of laws passed against them. They have right wing media ginning up fear against them- 24: seven. They are targeted more than any other group in America And if anyone should get guns, it should be trans Americans. saying, oh yeah, the US was founded on corruption. No, the free nations were not founded on corruption, They were founded as anti-NWO and they got infiltrated. But anyway, the thing I wanted to talk about was when I was on hold for Owen Schroyer's war room yesterday. he said to call in about three things. they're all pointing in the same direction and that's NWO takeover of society, And they were the trans agenda and the shooting and Joe Biden's bumbling and fumbling. As far as the trans agenda, leading to the decline of society, it's very interesting that one very intelligent, very knowledgeable researcher, Dr Camille Paglia, who herself is transgender but on transitions, points out that societies that allow this invariably in history just collapse soon afterwards. As far as the shooting goes, there's a lot of gaslighting going on because if one reads the magnum opus on the subject, Dr John R Lott Jr's More Guns, Less Crime- turns out that there is not one single case in history where increased gun control has led to decreased crime and in the vast majority of cases it's led to increased crime. Yeah, you're absolutely right, Johnny. This is evidenced even by the fact that the Democrat states that are really tough on gun control have really high crime rates. but places like Bolsonaro legalises, gives more guns to his people and the crime goes down. I mean, and that's what they're doing. I didn't even air this last week And this week. it's my fault. We had a clip last week and one like on Monday. I never got to it. I want both clips of men that have had their penises cut off saying how painful it is and how horrible it is, because they don't just cut the penises off folks, They create a big bleeding, rotting hole that almost always ends up killing people And then when they die from it, they say: well, we killed the transgenders, So we weren't nice to them, But that's not half as bad. The fake vagina is not as bad as the fake penises. Please give me one minute of your time, Please write this down and please go look this up. It will change your life. The UN admits, and the Lansing Medical Journal admits, that upwards of two billion people have mental disabilities and declining cognitive abilities. The term they use is intellectual disability because of lack of iodine. Owen Schroyer did a really great job last hour, Detailing the hypocrisy, the corruption, the breakaway government we have. The deep state is now out in the open Protecting all this criminal activity. and Hunter Biden? Yeah, the child porn's terrible. Yeah, the crack cocaine's terrible. Yeah, him with the trophy photos with his niece and nephews, You know, with his penis hanging out with seven-year-old girls. You know he's wearing a robe, They're wearing robes. I mean, it's all trophy photos he sends to his buddies. That's criminal, It's horrible. He deserves to be in prison for the rest of his life. So this is all we're way down the rattle. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, I said I'd play this earlier. we're going to do it now. So I've been trying to get to this for a week and a half. The first clip is a group of men who got convinced to hate themselves by psychologists and by the schools and systems to have their genitals cut off. But they don't just, like eunuchs, cut the testicles off or even cut the penis off, because then the penis heals over. It's still very painful, reportedly, but you've just got a hole there and then you pee out of it. I'm sorry to get graphic. we're going to go over this. And, by the way, you can go online. It's happening to as young as seven-year-olds in the US, as young as five in the UK, as young as five in Germany. They say the child can make the decision. Of course they can't buy liquor or join the military, but now they can. They've been convinced by their psychotic parents in the state And now they're passing laws to take people's children away from the parents if they don't go along with it. And they go in and they fillet. they fillet the penis and then they cut open into the body and they suture in the penis Penis material into the sides of just muscles between your legs and then they staple in what's left of the urethra back in the channel. So there's no muscles to dilate, There's no nerves. It's not natural. And it always becomes infected. It always becomes hellish. A lot of times it gets maggots in it- I'm not joking folks- And that's when people commit suicide. Then, when they commit suicide, they say: oh, you didn't embrace it, how beautiful it is. Now it gets worse With women. they cut their forearms off and muscles out of the front of their legs because these doctors are all Hellraiser types, so they really get off on it. There's photos and videos of it We're not going to show you. And they create usually 10-to-1-foot-long giant penises because they love to cut more meat off the arms, Cut the forearms off, cut the muscles out, cut the thighs out. So now they're like these psycho-looking creatures that are mutilated. People that are assault-harming love it. It's the next level. And then they sew it all together and put a tube in it, a catheter up into your body, And they then create a giant fake penis that look it up. Usually within six months people freak out and say: cut it off, remove. But they say, oh no, you're depressed, You go forward with it And then a lot of times it just rots off and falls off And I think the record is like four years. one of these things lasted okay, But it was a giant rotting piece of meat. Now let me describe this for you. Well, you have no, you have nothing there. So there's a good chance that we build it back up and take, maybe, muscle out of your thigh or your buttocks. If you keep all of it for seven weeks and don't move it, you've got about an 80% chance in rehab that it'll ever work as good as even close. So top doctors are telling me: we can't fix your leg now because you didn't get it fixed when you should have. okay, All right, And that's what. oh, but we can make you a fake vagina or a fake penis, ladies and gentlemen. So real doctors will tell me: yeah, if we take muscle out of a- well you know- out of you and we put a cadaver tendon in there and strengthen it with one of the tendons in your that goes to your big toe. seven weeks in a cast and then three months of rehab. you're gonna have to sign forms that it may fail and you'll have to have another surgery and it may never work. But you know, I had three doctors telling me this. I went to other ones before and they said you're inoperable, inoperable. But man, you're a little kid. Woo brother, we gonna cut that penis off right now, Take care of you. We're gonna make a big rotting hole in the side of your body that the maggots are gonna love And we're gonna have the whole media attack everybody. We'll pull up the pressure if you don't go along with it. That's what they've set up. We'll be right back. Reputable studies show that it's causing various cancers and other disease. With the Alexa Pure Pro, you can have clean drinking water and a remedy to this madness Available now at infowarsstorecom. Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones. So we are back broadcasting worldwide and you know I'm telling you all this horrible stuff because it's all going on and everything I've told you you can go verify for yourself right now. okay, We just showed medical site graphics, cartoon graphics of artificial penises, artificial tits. okay, Online on Twitter you can go see the actual medical videos and people complaining and saying what it was like and how hellish it is. So they know exactly what they're doing. They're walking people into literal mind control, taking their mental illness and making it 10 times worse. So I want to play back to back two different clips of people that are going public and speaking out against this And remember these are brainwashed victims coming out of it. I am actively suing Kaiser Permanente and I'm suing the doctors that gave me those treatments related to my transition. My name is Laila Jain, I'm 18 years old and I am a woman who has detransitioned And Democrats are trying to pass laws that you can't do The different transitioning training for people that are not happy in the gay lifestyle to say, hey, you could be in the heterosexual lifestyle, you can become anonymous, you can become celibate. Oh no, we want to pass laws where you can't go and quote brainwash back. But I mean, here's the deal. I'm not attacking anybody other than those that want to attack children. If you're 18 years old And you really want to go have your penis cut off, I don't like it, It's terrible, but taxpayers shouldn't pay for it. But you have a right to even commit suicide if you want. I believe people have a right to kill themselves. I don't think it's good, I think it's bad. But you know I've had friends that were in pain, had cancer, didn't want to hurt their family, didn't want to spend all the money, went out on the back- 40, stuck a shotgun in their mouth, blew their head off. But going out to break here, Owen, I want to remind listeners that X3 is going to be sold out of current sales rates in a few weeks, but sold out for a long time before that. If you want to get it and get it discounted, you've got three or four days more. We're going to run the sale through Tuesday. Then it's going to go back to regular price until it sells out. Get X3 experience. try Iodine Infowarsstorecom or 888-253-3139.. Owen Schroeder, take us out to break with your take on the nightmares of transgenderism and the backlash. Let's just look how they apply this to ending debate and executing power At Twitter. today we discovered Twitter censored the Daily Wire's new video called What is a Woman. Elon Musk hours later made a statement that this was done by rogue individuals at Twitter. So they're still trying to clear out some of these rogue groups at Twitter that are censoring content they don't like. The thing is, every time they're engaging these activities, the righteous are waking up and more and more disconnecting themselves psychically, emotionally, spiritually, physically from the dependence on this matrix. Look at the mainstream media. It's lost all credibility. Look at Target and Bud Light: all credibility gone. Now I've heard analysis that this is a coordinated weaponization against Target and others to implode them from within, to quicken sort of an economic collapse. But you see the righteous spirit of Americans rising up when they reject the ideology of demonism, lesbian, gay, transgender, humanism, transgenderism, all of that stuff That's not American, That's not human. So we're witnessing the left incapable of adjustment, incapable of backing up, incapable of compromise, incapable of reflection, But they are capable, like rats in a maze trying to figure out a different route to go. But it's for self-preservation. The thing is, people need to like in Zuckerberg, aka Rothschild kid or whatever. they need to understand where they're fleeing, to understand that their time is short. I mean, there is just so much going on, so much happening, And I can tell you that as the world economic system collapses, there's not long to turn this around. If we expose the world economic forum as the main mouthpiece of the globalist forces in BlackRock of doing this and explain how they're consolidating control and imploding things by design- We have all the graphs to show it- to consolidate money and power to themselves and bring in a dystopia, We can expose this and stop it And every person listening to the show. 99.99999% of you are going to have a much worse life and a much less safe life and a much less fulfilled life And they're going to live in a very high tech police state grid. that is just going to be terrible if you don't say no to this and reject it now. And with it comes all of these attacks on common sense and on logic and just the murder of that. Biden's executive order on transgender rights unilaterally eviscerates women's sports, And I have a whole stack on this and how it's tied to pedophilia and transhumanism coming up today. We're going to be hitting it all. We only have one guest on today, a great guest in the third hour that Paul Watson takes over in the fourth hour. But I'm going to be as judicious as I can today to try to hit all of this news in front of me because it's that important, but also open the phones up some in the next hour Separately. I've got some really good news for listeners and viewers about the Info War. because if you don't do that, it will kill upwards of a billion people in the next two years and cause a chain reaction. the supply chain is always a year out with fertilizer. already it's going to kill probably a hundred million people. what's happened? and again, do you feel safe? while this is going on, deliberately, seriously, while we're debating transgender sports, the border is completely wide open and we're all in grave danger here, and I've got a bunch of other indicators here that some sanity is kicking in. but we need an emergency hearings in Congress. we need the Keystone Pipeline turned on. we need those 2000 plus other ones. turn on now, turn them on now. It's Alex Jones Coming to you, live from deep in the heart of Texas, Broadcasting Worldwide. I am your host, Alex Jones. Okay, I've got the really sinister COVID-19 news, but it's just unbelievable. I've got to hit the stack. I'll do it in a moment. I need to hit the transgender, transhumanist takeover stack because that ties in with this other key piece of news and I'm going to do that at the start of the hour. next hour. I want to hit the economic Pentagon, police state, George Soros, Klaus Schwab news. there's a big grouping of stories here that tie together, but let me give you a prelude to this first, just so we can get an idea of what we're dealing with here. It was over 20 years ago that I first received documents and had guests on who were part of Christian organizations who had been warned by nurses they knew in California and New York as well as Washington state, and they discovered that they were keeping babies alive and telling the mothers that were disabled or on drugs, mentally disabled, that, oh, their child died and that they were keeping them alive and then using them for medical experiments. So that's why in Virginia they're trying to pass laws. in New York they did to keep babies alive and sell their organs. They want to kill children one way or another. and if they got to kill them once they're out of the womb or poison their minds or cut their genitals off, they'll take what they can get. but death is their favorite. and that ties into the whole transgenderism and the rest of it. And I saw this meme. it's on inforwarscom, down in the cartoon section and it really illustrates it all. It's Snow White leaning down the image of a 16-year-old virgin but becoming a woman, that powerful image. and she's talking as a mentor to an eight-year-old girl and the eight-year-old girl's coming over and saying: meeting you as a dream come true. that starts with killing babies after they're born. Mainstream news Bill introduced in California and you tell people this stuff and they just can't believe it. By the way, the bill's sponsored by the governor. He's brought the bill forward. And why not? They're going to make these babies transgender. They're going to go from living to dead. Oh, your baby identifies as dead. now That's actually what they say. they go. I mean, you know that, right, You know this is all very real, right, folks? So let's dive into where the rabbit hole goes. California introduces a new bill that would allow mothers to kill their babies up to seven days after birth, and a bunch of other states have done it as well, and New York passed it a couple years ago. Got that for you. That's how these people operate. And now Biden signs an executive order on transgender rights, unilaterally eviscerating women's sports, saying men can compete in any women's sport they want, as long as they designate it and they can have full testosterone and testicles Instead of. a woman gets caught shooting testosterone, she will be kicked out of any sport, but men can compete with their testicles. And then you got Beto the creep master, the most disingenuous person I've ever seen in my life, out running around with his don't mess with trans kids. I mean don't mess with the children who they want to stunt and deform and destroy their future and destroy their naturally developed sexuality. That's the depopulation Biden tears into political attacks on transgender children from bills across the nation. It's not a tax on children, it's a tax on the pervert pedophile creeps trying to screw up kids and trying to form not just a sexual relationship but a bizarre biological relationship of deciding there's something else. so they can put a note on that. have the state involved to take control of parental rights, that child's sexual development, That is so damn satanic. Joe Biden applauds transgenderism with launch of new X gender marker 50,000 times. petition for Disney to rehire James Gunn after he threw pedophile theme parties. Andy Mack, actor Stoney Westmoreland, fired by Disney Channel following arrest for planning liaison with 13-year-old top Disney execs. talk about their not at all secret gay agenda for flooding shows with LGBTQA P characters and how they need to get access to those children, how they need to be able to talk to them about their sexual relationships. Imagine talking to a full grown adult like walk up to a lady grocery store: hi, I'd like to talk about how you like to have sex, about what your gender is. get away from me, pervert. that's private stuff. Disney president, as mom of transgender and pansexual children, she wants diverse characters. Yes, so the kids can all learn about how I'm a bondage person. well, I'm somebody that's into amputating limbs. well, I'm someone that's into this and that I'm someone that likes to get gang banged and get HIV. Four Disney employees, retired judge among 108 arrested in human trafficking sting in central Florida Polk County Sheriff. Repealing the First Amendment on a national level may be a little bit difficult, but we've seen surveys conducted on the Oceanside Pier that there are a lot of people that are willing to accept that. So we're just recommending the Bilderberg Group Think Tank. some of our associates, World Economic Forum, are recommending that on local levels, we prevent the gendering of children at all. As you know, children will believe virtually anything at a young age. they believe that a man in a red suit flies around and brings presents to them every Christmas. and if we can convince them that there is no such thing as gender, that boys can be girls, girls can be boys, that men can get pregnant, that women can have external genitals, penises, then I think that we'll be able to really succeed in what it is that we're trying to do here. We're going to have to start reaching the children on a younger level and again, by the time a lot of these students reach college, many of them are set in their ways. Some of them are watching Tucker Carlson, other YouTubers. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you For more. and so now nanotech is in the food and major universities have done studies in Europe and the US. people are finding it in their blood and in their brain tissue and it's causing all sorts of problems. and you've got these transhumanists bragging that. oh yeah, we're colonizing your bodies right now. So everything else was a beta test. that's why the human animal hybrids are out in the open and the pedophilia is out in the open and the transgenderism pushing it on kids is out in the open, because it's all meant to destabilize you, freak you out, get you scared and get you to submit to every form of tyranny you can imagine. and then some. And then it's crazy to see people finally starting to figure this out, like this senator we played the clip from earlier from Australia, Alex Antic, and to see the media attacking him when all he did was very intelligently quote actual quotes by the globalist. and they're like: he's crazy, he's nuts, he's saying the Australian government is full speech. our alumni of this group are carrying this out, while they're saying they're alumni, while they're executing the orders of Klaus Schwab, who is the head of the Bilderberg group. Also, note how current thing King President Zelensky is very keen on piggybacking regime narratives onto existing popular support for the current thing. Of course, green energy is completely shite, totally inadequate to meet demand and has already almost bankrupted Western economies like Spain. It only leads to soaring energy costs that poor people can't afford to pay. But hey, if it's a key part of the current thing, maybe we all need to get behind it. What's next? Zelensky urging us to embrace drag queen story time or transgender representation in female sports as a crucial part of the war effort. Current thing: selective outrage, socially engineered outrage. The regime is so easily able to redirect people's cognitive impulses, virtually overnight. It's both depressing and quite frightening. COVID war: The difference between a bog standard dictatorship and a ruthless totalitarian state is that a ruthless totalitarian state requires the aid of vast numbers of its own population to ideologically enforce it, And we're now well on the road to that society in the once free west. they can report it to the police and the police are duty bound to investigate the report as, a quote, hey incident. now there doesn't need to be any evidence that any crime has actually taken place, nor nor any evidence when they even arrive at the scene. if somebody claims that they feel offended, then that incident is registered as a hey incident. then people wonder why. you know, reported hate crimes are up 17 plus percent since brexit. it's because they changed the definition and now simply from being from claiming they're being victimized, the police are duty bound to report on this and we had an absolutely probably the most absurd example of this i've seen, at least in recent years, headline out of the telegraph man investigated by police for retweeting transgender limerick. now, as far as i know, because i report on, this, info was reported on this days before the mainstream media. again tomorrow's news today, because i saw this when it went out on twitter from the individual explaining how he was contacted by police for a transgender limerick. now, let's get it straight, he did not even post that tweet. these were not even his words, and this headline claims he retweeted it. from what i researched, he liked the tweet. he didn't even retweet it, he merely liked it. somebody reported that he liked a tweet. a docker from humberside has been investigated by police over a limerick he posted. that's incorrect. he didn't post it on twitter after an officer claimed it constituted a hey incident against transgender people. harry miller, 53, from linkedin, was contacted on wednesday by a community cohesion officer following a complaint that had been made about the plant and machinery dealers social media posts. they singled out a limerick that he had retweeted. again, he didn't retweet it, he liked it, which questioned whether transgender women or biological women included the lines: your breasts are made of silicone. your vagina goes nowhere. even though no crime was committed, sharing the limerick online was recorded as a hate incident and they actually told him over the phone. they called him up, threatened him, threatened his job, threatened to report him to his boss, said that they needed to check if any transgender people worked at his firm, at his place of employment, because they might not be safe because he liked a funny limerick on twitter. this is what police resources are going to in the united kingdom, even as a violent crime rate source, even as people are out on the streets in yorkshire- the same county as this today- with machetes trying to murder people. you've all seen the videos again. nine percent of crimes actually end with a criminal being charged in the united kingdom, but they've got plenty of resources to harass people, to call them up, to threaten with getting them fired and potential hate crimes charges because they liked a limerick about transgender people. they see the story today. i shall feel my hometown, where some insane persons running around with a machete- maybe you know, if he did, if he'd have tweeted about it before, they would have reacted quicker. now, in this case, they actually phoned him up- this is humberside, same county, yorkshire- and they said he would have to check your thinking. that the officer told this guy who liked to tweet that he would need to check your thinking. you didn't investigate my brother's flat in hull, which is in the same area. when i told you i had concerns about his well-being, you told me you didn't have the resources. two days later a neighbor found his body. i wish i told you he'd like to limerick on facebook. so literally the same police force told this woman they didn't have the resources to investigate a missing person who turned up dead. but they do have the resources to investigate a 53 year old man because he liked a limerick about transgender people on twitter. and when they're called out, when they get thousands of responses to the tweets, they just double down. double down on the insanity. mr miller told the telegraph: i can't believe what's happening in the uk in the name of transgenderism, which again is like what? 0.03 percent of the population or whatever, and, worse still, we're not even allowed to think, never mind talk about it. the married father of four was alerted in the investigation by his company directors after they were approached by officers trying to make contact with mr miller. so the police went to his boss to try and get him into trouble. the complainant had managed to identify mr miller's place of work. so again it was some busy body on twitter that literally tried to get the guy fired, tried to get him in trouble with the police because he liked to limerick on twitter. as part of the complaint to police, it was alleged the firm was an unsafe environment for transgender employees because of mr miller's comments on social media. he didn't even comment, he liked to tweet. listen to this crime in humberside. the same area has gone up 13 percent in the year ending september 2018, above the 8 percent national average. violent offenses are up 24 percent. we don't claim that on the bottle, but if you read some studies into that, it's basically proven to do so. it is bodies from info wars life at 50% off, where we also have the all new turbo force healthy, natural energy drink alternative right now for 33% off. please support this network. we need your backing more than ever. info wars store dot com. now i told you before the break about the 53 year old man investigated by police for a transgender limerick, which he didn't even post. he just liked it on twitter. crimes skyrocketing in the same area. dead bodies are being reported and not even investigated, but they've got plenty of time to call up some guy and threaten to get him fired and threaten to give him a police record if he doesn't change his thinking. how orwellian is that in the same area. they have to say so-called because they want to claim it's not islamic, even though when you look at polls from moderate muslims, huge numbers of them support suicide bombings. again, those are the moderates. so this guy basically insulted islamic terrorists days or weeks after one of the biggest islamic terror attacks in recent history and the bbc told him he would have to change his routine because it might offend islamic terrorists. this is the level of pc y dealing with now. that would be strangled by in the united kingdom. so you can't like transgender limericks on twitter or you'll get investigated, harassed. you can't insult terrorists. and now we have this story out of kipper central, which is a u-kip website: student effectively expelled from uni for offensive comments on immigration and halal. the student at the university of central Lancashire told kipper central that he's been effectively expelled from university after he told fellow students he would never eat halal meat and what's being described as a shocking attack on free speech. and in fact they emailed me all the documents for this last night. It is just so whacked out. And you know, here's the thing We kind of reached. I mean, if you're a social liberal, I would consider myself a social liberal. I know a lot of conservatives don't really like social liberal conservatives, But hey, there's room for disagreement and debate and discourse and not everybody thinking the same. I never grew up with any of this crap. I never grew up with gay pride parades and tranny time and drag queen time and all this other BS that they're showing kids before they can even hit puberty. And guess what, By the time I was in high school I had plenty of gay friends, boys and girls, and you know they knew they were gay and they knew what they were into and it wasn't a big deal. They didn't need to rub it in your face and you didn't really care and it was just live and let live. And so this whole notion like, oh, we have to do this, We have to do this for the gay kids and the trans kids and all this other garbage- No, you're not doing it for them, You're doing it for yourselves. You're doing it so you can groom these kids. Oh, are there gay kids that get bullied? Sure, there's all kinds of kids that get bullied. Bullying happens. This is sexual grooming folks. Illinois education standards say grades K through 2 should learn about gender identity and gender stereotypes. Grades 3 to 5 learn about masturbation, puberty blockers and trans children. literal grooming, homeschool your kids. Trans kids don't exist until a pervert gets their hands on them. That's the response. Trans kids don't exist until a pervert gets their hands on them And they have all the documents here with the images where they're teaching these little kids how to have gay sex and use sex toys to mutilate their genitals, masturbate. Now, given that about a third of Ukrainian refugees arriving in countries like France aren't from Ukraine, that might pose a problem. Now they've done it, according to the Bloomberg report, at least partially, in the name of protecting the LGBTQ community. We're going to check in on another report again in the next segment, which I put up yesterday on that subject. Transgenders are fleeing Ukraine because they're getting to the border basically having their Adam's apples checked by the Ukrainian security forces, And not a very LGBT friendly country. in fact, it's ranked in the bottom 10 when it comes to LGBT rights. in Ukraine, Gay marriage is illegal, homosexuality is a sin, So these current thing supporters who've suddenly switched their allegiance from demanding everyone wear a mask and take a vaccine over to supporting Ukraine, Many of whom have both the Ukrainian flag in their Twitter bio with the LGBT rainbow flag- when they learn about how Ukraine treats gay people and transgenders, They may have a quandary. Meanwhile, Danish PM says being a refugee is temporary. We're going to get into all that, but first I want to get into this, and this is going to take up the next segment as well. by the looks of it, This idea of group think, this idea that the flip was switched overnight, from the same people who vitriolically denounced anyone who didn't take a vaccine, vitriolically denounced anyone who didn't wear a mask, The same people now vitriolically denouncing people who don't fully support Ukraine, don't fully support the no fly zone, the escalation of the war agenda. Where does that thinking come from? No, it's shooting down Russian fighters, It's nuclear Armageddon, it's World War III. Oh, I didn't know that. Yeah, because you can't think You support the current thing. So again the idea. and, by the way, there's a counter meme now, which is the NPC, and it says: I support, I don't support the current thing. And instead of transgender flags and Ukrainian flags, it's like infowars and arty in the background and like being against masks. No, that doesn't work, because there's no negative consequences for supporting the current thing, Whereas if you don't support the current thing, you can end up out of a job, out of a bank account or even worse. Another example of that: today, British professor faces government crackdown for questioning Ukraine war narrative. Again, if he just have supported the current thing, he'd have been okay. Oh, but supporting the current thing and not supporting the current thing, that's ideologically similar. Having been completely atomised, humanity seems completely dependent on defining itself by lurching from one crisis to another and weaponising that crisis to ostracise publicly, shame and deplatform dissidents who suggest that all may not be as it seems. Now I'm going to move on to this refugee situation. in terms of this Biden plan to accept 100,000 Ukrainian refugees into the United States. The exact wording in this Bloomberg article is very interesting. I'm going to talk about that, but first I'm going to play this video, because they openly said that they want to help Ukrainian refugees to protect the LGBT movement. That's basically what this Bloomberg article said, which is very interesting because yesterday I made a video about transgenders trying to flee Ukraine. These are biological males who now claim they're women, trying to flee the country, presumably like the Titanic, when the men dressed up as women and tried to get on the lifeboats. Unfortunately for them, Ukraine is not a very LGBT friendly country. Let's go to this clip: Transgenders fleeing Ukraine told their men by border guards. Here it is: Transgender women attempting to flee Ukraine are being turned back at the border and told to return home to fight. The reason- according to Ukrainian border guards they're men- Sounds pretty transphobic to me. Under the state of martial law declared by President Zelensky, all biological males between the ages of 18 and 60 are mandated to stay in the country and fight. The law makes no exception whatsoever for transwomen. A report by Italian newspaper Le Corrier de la Serre confirms that virtually all of the transgenders attempting to escape Ukraine by identifying as women have been apprehended and sent back. The report quotes one of the transwomen who was told by border guards- quote: they are men. they must turn back and fight. Another transwomen couple, both of whom were born biological males, had their Adams apples checked by Ukrainian officers. They were then told to return home and, quote: go to the war. they're wondering: what are you Like? you're some kind of animal or something? That from someone who was born a biological female but now identifies as a man but was still prevented from fleeing the country. There is no reason why she should not be allowed to pass, with the thousands of women who are crossing Ukrainian borders to safety every day. Yet on 12th of March, at about 4 am, after a long and humiliating search, border guards determined she was a man and prevented her passage into Poland. According to Human Rights campaign or Alina Shepchenko, it sounds like Ukrainian border guards are preventing even trans people with a valid certificate reflecting their new gender from leaving Ukraine, and nobody knows why. So Hedge reports. interestingly, the American press didn't pick up the story. Could this be because it might undermine the bright, shiny, definitely not Nazi-ish- new heroic image of the Ukrainian government, which has been the subject of almost unanimously positive coverage in the American press? According to the International Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans and Intersex Association, whatever that is, Ukraine ranks 39 out of 49 European countries when it comes to its treatment of LGBT people. Marriage is illegal and homosexuality is considered a sin, and there are no anti-LGBT discrimination laws. So, technically, all the moral exhibitionists who have put Ukrainian flags in their Twitter bios are supporting one of the most homophobic and transphobic countries on the entire continent. Imagine how scrambled their brains will be when they find that out. Which current thing do you support when one current thing totally contradicts the other. Now that's an interesting angle: the fact that these transgenders have been turned back by the apparently transphobic Ukrainian border guards. But again, we support the current thing. so we'll just ignore that for now. Because in this Bloomberg article today, which announced that a Biden White House plan to accept 100,000 refugees into the United States, it said- quote: the official who is quoted in this Bloomberg article said the US is committed to protecting LGBTQ people and those with medical needs that have been disrupted by war. Medical needs suggest transgenders. of course, LGBTQ people includes those transgenders who are trying to flee the country but being turned back. So are they literally announcing this 100,000 refugee intake merely to help the rainbow people? What's also interesting about this? of course, as I've mentioned before, 100,000 Ukrainian refugees. I will say many of these Ukrainian refugees are actually refugees, women and children, of course. That's why we've got to share them, now more than ever, Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones. You're listening to the SummitNews Radio Hour with Paul Joseph Watson. So, as I was talking about before the break, we've got cut off. the US is set to announce a program to accept 100,000 Ukrainian refugees in the name of, according to the official quoted by Bloomberg, protecting LGBTQ people and those with medical needs that have been disrupted by war. So that will include presumably the transgender's biological men who identify as women, attempting to flee Ukraine but being turned back at the border by the transphobic Ukrainian border guards who are checking their Adam's apple and saying they need to go back home and fight on the front lines. basically, Now another part of this Bloomberg article said quote: given the United States will have to accept these refugees: 100,000, quote over the course of several years. Now that's interesting because the Prime Minister of Denmark made the point yesterday that quote being a refugee is temporary and that is the headline. This is Danish Prime Minister Metta Frederiksen who made the comments after Denmark passed a law giving Ukrainian refugees the right to work, education and social welfare. But she's basically said when the war stops, that tat will be turned off. he has no idea what it is. he's never even heard a gain of function research. here he is. i mean folks, this is again. it's it's the austin power scene. like, uh, i don't know what a sweetest penis and larger pump is. and the guy's like: here's your picture with it. he's like i swear i don't know what a sweetest, sweetest penis and larger pump is. here's your receipt for it. i don't. i've never seen the sweetest penis and larger pump. i don't know what it is. here's a book you wrote about it. it's just i don't know. gain of function research- oh really. i don't know. i've never heard of gain a function. i don't know anything about gain a function. i certainly never funded any gain a function. i don't even know what a gain a function is. ah, swedish made penis and larger pump baby. i don't know anything about this baby. it's not my bag baby. it's not my bag baby. gain a function reason: i don't know any. so talk about the supreme court ruling that has you in studio with us today. so here's the here's the genesis of this. she, uh, she- moved to la county in california. that's all i know. i'm not allowed to know where, where my children are, where they go to school or anything, and senate bill 107 takes effect, was going to take effect on the first of january, so i was seeking relief from the supreme court to get my children back to texas before that law went into effect. it's a transgender sanctuary bill, and what it says is that california will not cooperate with any state that doesn't provide affirming- uh, what they call gender affirming- healthcare, which is the opposite of what it's called. yes, exactly it's. it's actually mutilating children. yeah, so what? what it means is california will not obey subpoenas from texas courts. this is like a jigsaw trap from the movie saw. yeah, it's like okay, if you want to be free, you're gonna have to walk through a bed of nails or, you know, a bunch of cutting- cutting wire or something. that's right. so i went to the supreme court of texas because it was an emergency. i didn't even go to the appeals court because i didn't have time. i went to the supreme court and said: they're sending my son to a transgender sanctuary state. she has tried to transition my son in the past. that makes her a risk of doing this in california, where i have no recourse to enforce this. but the supreme court strongly disagreed with me and said: nope, we write california's law and, despite what the california legislative council says, um, you can still enforce this injunction. and what they mean by that is quite sophisticated. so we have a real issue with- uh, our, our lawyers and our billionaires are just not stepping up to the plate. meanwhile, the liberals, they know this. so it's like a goblin fest. yeah, it's like. if the goblins know, i don't know, let's say there's a goblin smasher, okay, yes, well, the god, they, the goblins, know the goblin smasher is not coming here, so guess where they all hang out. that's right, and it has attracted some of the worst of the left into family court, and so you know, they see the ability to set precedent, for example, this supreme court decision on my case means that any texas court now can authorize a child to be moved into a transgender sanctuary state, and so this is the key. so let's get into why. because here it is. this is not look. the left is anti-family. that's right, i think. the early on they keyed into this case because of one specific fact: my son only presents as a girl, with his mother, with me and everybody else. he's always presented as a boy, and i think the calculus that they went through was, if we can get this boy, we can get any child we want, and they wanted that to be locked into the law and they're using this case to make that happen. so now they've got it locked into the law that you know: if you violate gag orders and talk about, you know your son being transitioned, you can lose all your parental rights. if you run for political office and you don't follow the restrictions that a judge puts on your political speech, which is the which they did. they tried to stop me from running for office by putting on a gag order which restricted me from talking about political topics around transgenderism. i didn't follow any of those orders and they restricted my, my parental rights. now they're. now they've reached the point where now, okay, texas, you've got this attorney general opinion which says this is child abuse. you may pass a law making these procedures child abuse. that's ken paxton, yeah. but now any court in texas can you know, export a child to a transgender sanctuary state. and again, just just to re-emphasize that, it was the judge in this case that let your wife take the sons, your sons, to california. she let that happen. judge mary brown wrote an affirmative order allowing her to move to california. after a year long campaign of stripping my parental rights to remove all of my ability to follow california's law for contacting your children, setting me up for termination of parental rights. where do you look at the interest here, the human interest, the american interest? how much is there? how much interest is there for common sense, protect the kids, or do you feel completely overwhelmed by it? so it's interesting. i find that the, the people that i talk to, even democrats, don't believe we should do this to kids. even protrans people don't believe we should do this to kids. this is elites pushing this, and these elites have taken over professional bodies like the american psychological association, like the texas psychological association, and have started to push this. an example here: if you bring a child who, for example, is uncomfortable with their gender, a psychologist in texas cannot help that child identify with their biological sex. they consider that reparative therapy and that's against their rules. a psychologist can only help your child to become transgender. so the last place you should ever take a child who's got discomfort with their gender or their social roles as a boy or a girl, the last place you should take them as a psychologist. right, but remember, these psychologists are testifying in court and so they're making law in the court, because there's two kinds of law. there's statutory law, right, and then there's case law, and case law is binding a statutory law. so when they make these cases like this- the supreme court case that i had to go through- this is binding law on the courts. the average lifetime income stream is four million dollars to these clinics. so if you've got three thousand kids, you can imagine how much money is at stake there. you're talking billions of dollars in this country alone. um, and. but i think there's an ideological reason. you know, i think the reason obama made the transgender procedures and made entrance companies pay for it, right, which encouraged hospitals to open up the clinics, which created a market for it. um, and now you see that market. you see it's huge. it's huge now, but this is the thing: they monetize it to make the market grow. that's that's why they do it. why is claus schwaab said: you will own nothing and be happy, right? they can't get that reverse tyranny with the middle class because these middle classes still believe in things like free speech, they still believe that they should be able to raise their children the way they want. and as long as you have a large middle class, it can't be dominated. it cannot be dominated. and because it represents the majority of voters as well, right, so that there's a. there's an attempt to undermine the traditional family, to undermine the political power of the middle class, to create a reverse tyranny, and i believe that is the basic agenda of the globalist towards the family. transgenderism is one that's particularly potent because if you look at the diagnostic criteria to be transgendered, for a child to be transgendered, it just means that they do some girly stuff. if you read the it's, they just do some girly stuff and you can be transgendered. and it allows a subjective psychologist to take away parental rights almost at will, which is, of course, absurd. you know, and i think about your, your twin boys now you said they're nine years old, right, they're 10 now, 10 now, and so i think about it. but i remember- and i hated this as a kid, but it happened a couple of times i was probably like four or five years old and i had some older cousins or female cousins and they like to play with barbie dolls and do dress up and you know what. they may. you moronic little stupid freaks. and i'm saying this because one of our top trends to 2023, world war three. it's begun. you go back to our trends journal back in february 22nd, two days before the ukrain war war, covid war to ukrain war to world war. world war three has begun. the united states and nato sending in hundreds of billions of dollars worth of weapons to a comedian famous to play in the piano with his penis, oh, and closing down the orthodox churches and celebrated at congress giving him our money, as 63 percent of americans, of paycheck to paycheck. they ramped up this war. america is at war. oh, you should hear his language too. people say about my language. oh, you mean, because he's losing the war. hey, hey, clown boys, where were you when george bush was losing the war? you mean the afghan war that went on for 20 years? where were you, little slime balls man, every day, every day? oh, george bush wasn't alone, you know, no, because he had other slime balls behind them. yeah, like penis chaney. i can't say dick chaney, because i don't want to get sensing. hey, hey. how about condoleezza rice, that next mushroom cloud? no, funny women, we're in charge. this is a sad issue. I've always thought Michelle Obama looked like something was wrong with her. they talk about how beautiful she is. she looks profanely scary and monstrous to me and she always wears these weird fluffy things around her waist and her shoulders are wide enough to put three men's heads on and of course, you know the classic thing of a male: you could have three heads on a male's shoulders and only another head on a woman's shoulder or one half of a head on each side. that's a well-known thing in anatomy and I saw a online video that I may air today and we may look into this, talking about Michelle Obama looking like a man and how they only released photos of her with her hands up covering her shoulders or her turn to an angle. and I started looking at it, with Joan Rivers saying she's a transvestite- and I've been here in this for years and I thought, come on, I know Obama was raised by a transvestite and the rest of it- and I'm not getting into bashing people, that's not my cup of tea- but I started to really last night, look at videos of this and look at photos of her in the official White House photo and she looks like an NBA center. I mean, she looks more like Shaquille O'Neal than a black woman. and, knowing all the weirdness and that we don't even know who Obama really is and his social security numbers, don't he verify? and then his dad: clearly we sell the documentary dreams of my real father and I mean it's him with the famous pornographer who lived in Hawaii, whose grandfather's was best buddies with and who Obama would stay the summers with- a famous communist pornographer. and you look at the guy, it's Obama's dad. chromosome mutation has formally used in a strict sense to mean a change in a chromosomal segment involving more than one gene. yeah, but find the one, guys. that's hyper male or hyper female? it's super male, super female. there's a number seeing documentaries about it and reading books about it in biology, reading about it. but it's a big issue in the Olympics they talk about on ESPN, where they go and they do blood test on, you know, female runners and folks that don't look like women and, hey, it turns out they don't have a penis- excuse my French, but that's the word, that's the medical word for it- but they do have male, male genetics. they're men, they're men and it turned out. remember the Russians couldn't lose in the 60s and 70s and 80s and the women weightlifting didn't really look like women and they would test them and and they didn't have steroids in them, but they look like men. well, they were men. now, continuing here, ladies and gentlemen, let's open the phones up about that. the average male is supposed to be able to have three heads across their shoulders, a female supposed to have two heads or one head in the middle, and you could put a half head on each side and you look at Michelle Obama and straight on photos. they're very rare, in fact. when you have seen her on television and when the camera turns on, she'll stand turning to the side. she wears fluffy deals around her waist, but when she's not wearing that, when you see her in a bathing suit man, it looks like a man. and there are the photos of she's either keeping a banana in her pants- I mean I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen- or or she's a man and I mean I'm sorry, we just have to talk about this. and I heard this eight years ago, that he's married to a transvestite. and and now Joan Rivers has said it and she says: oh, it's a compliment, you know, because you know, being a male or female who's had a row, that's bad. basically, you need to be something else. I look, I'm not attacking anybody. there's certainly. this is just being pushed. and then Obama admits that he was raised in Indonesia by a transvestite nanny. so there's, and his dad's, this famous pornographer and just all this. I mean regardless. he stayed summers with a famous communist publisher and pornographer. I mean, his grandfather played hung out with him, played golf and would quote: leave Obama there for the summer. I mean, if it isn't, his dad sure looks like him. there it is. Joan Rivers storms out of negative scene interviews, days after calling Michelle Obama a tranny. so again, all I'm saying is we need her to publicly give a blood test, and they can. you only need to drop a blood to do a DNA check and she can send it out to a bunch of private labs and put all this to bed right now. and and if, and if her identity is a woman. I respect that seriously. they even offer a gluten-free option. Oregon Trail foods and 30-day food supply dot com keep prices low by buying directly from the producers in Oregon and then passing the savings to you. purchase a 30-day 90 serving emergency food supply for only $99 this month and $10 ships your entire order. visit the website at 30-day food supply dot com or call 541-229-0010. that's 30-day food supply dot com, where they make preparedness affordable. 30-day food supply dot com again. folks, I'm joking around a little bit about Michelle Obama, but the more appropriate question, since Joan Rivers and everybody else keeps raising this about Michael Obama or Michelle Obama or Bradley Manning or Chelsea or whatever their names are- is that: does she have the Kline-Selters syndrome? because she has the hands and the shoulders of a man? and now this is a big national news story. and I think the reason it's a big national news story is people don't believe a word the government in the system says anymore. it's a real loss of confidence. now, the Kline-Selters syndrome. the question should be: does Michelle Obama have Kline-Selters syndrome, where they generally choose the sex, whether it's gonna be male or female, when they're a child, and this is a big problem. in sports, men playing as women and dominating the sports, and there's a Hollywood actress that's known for being like this. there's a famous tennis player that keeps winning, who a lot of the main line pundits say: look at her shoulders, look at everything else. this is really a man, and so that's where I'm coming from on that issue here today. actually, to be more serious, we have discovered the true identity of Michelle Obama, and it's not that she's a transvestite or transsexual, it's that she's actually part of the legion of doom merman. that's right. ladies and gentlemen, if you look up merman, it is a spitting image that the wide shoulders, the tiny waist, the same teeth, the same eyes and then the same. is that dorsal fins? I'm not sure. or 20 to 1 demonstrators against the open borders versus one pro illegal person- just amazing. you'd watch the media, you would think it was the opposite. but does Michelle Obama look normal to you? I haven't seen her lately. was there some new photo or a video of her? well, do you hear about Joan Rivers saying that she thinks she's a transvestite? I've heard that I'm not really one. I don't want to find out. you don't see me. don't see me to the White House on that one. you don't want to investigate Michael Obama? oh, I'll pass on that. that's Bradley Manning. what's Bradley Manning's new name? Chelsea? well, as usual, stefan malinu is in fuego, on fire. we like folks that are on fire. he's gonna be joining us coming up. we're gonna go through a lot of this news. it's a great part about stefan: he's always a newshound, so he's up on everything. i want to get into all this with him, including the word tranny being banned. they're they're sending police now to college radio stations to illegally arrest people, to pull stunts, to act like the word tranny is illegal. facebook decided: i'm not kidding, go to wikipedia. this year zuckerberg decided that it is a word you can't use. but if someone's using it to describe how someone else misused it, then it's okay. and they've told us in phone calls, high-level folks at facebook. i don't want to pay for your sex change. i don't want to pay for your plastic surgery. i mean, it's plastic surgery i don't want. i don't want to pay for you and it's like making this new super class. so yeah, let's play it here. it is college calls police on student who said tranny on the radio. use the term on their program: deplorable radio. calls the police, just like the liberal. this is up in minnesota, just like the liberal schools. let antifa beat you up and then and then nothing happens and it's look, they're choosing words they can ban. they're nicer in the violence. they well. the only reason they're not violent is because there's not enough of them and everybody knows everybody here at moran, like you. you know you can, definitely you see one right. so we're gonna come back. we're gonna come back and they use the word tranny, created by the trannies. and now they say: you can't, you kind of like homosexual, they said is mean to gay people. they said: use the word gay, we go, okay, we'll be nice, we'll use your word. now they go: don't use mother and father either. they're trying to be word police man. that is my goal here is to bring you the very best at the lowest price. when you purchase it, an informer storecom, you know you are also financing the attack on the globalist and the defense of our republic and freedom worldwide, Waging war on corruption, crashing of the lies and disinformation. I'm Alex Jones, your host. we have a giant spectrum of news. the european union's euro is crashing. people are having police called on them for using the word tranny, uh, claiming it's an illegal word, not just a hateful word, uh, all because facebook just this year said it was now hateful. no one ever really said that before, but they decided they first have a debate about a word, then their, their group, decides it's illegal, and next week it'll be more words. they tell you what words you can use. they're god, so that's coming up. charles manson, dead at 83, and so much more in this third hour. because there's an old saying that has really stuck with me from Nietzsche, where he said: when you confront monsters, when you face down monsters, be careful that you yourself does not become a monster. We must oppose the evil but guide ourselves by the good as much as possible, Because when you stare into the abyss, a lot of times you become the abyss. We'll be back with Stefan Malinu, who again is on fire. ladies and gentlemen, will cover a bunch of big breaking news with him and get into all these words. they're trying to ban Facebook, told us. you use the word tranny, you're banned, But then the left can use it all they want. I mean, this is true discrimination. Have you ever lost your power and wanted to simply flip a switch to get the lights back on? If so, pay close attention, because huge discounts are now available in solar generators. Perfect for backup, power outages and emergencies. And who on earth is to say that the person who is the most offensive now might not be the person who gives us the biggest moral breakthrough in the future? Slavery, anti-slavery, was highly offensive to people when it first came out. Who on earth has the omniscience to know that what is offensive now might not be moral tomorrow? Well, the old left has said: hey, I may disagree with you, but I'll fight to death for you to say it, because political speech and unpopular speech is the most protected. And of course you're talking about the article. college calls police on students who said, tranny, they arrest you if you don't use the G or Z or whatever. the new cult words are: How about a cult? No longer use mother or father. We have words for you. Use this. They go: okay, well, just don't, just just paraphrase me. And then they go: just don't use that word. And I go: but what if I'm reading a news headline? they just go: um, I'll call you back in a few days and we're going to give you a full list of all the words you can't use. Well, they never called us back. So I mean, I'm on a phone call with an executive telling me: don't say tranny, tranny, tranny, tranny, tranny, tranny, tranny, tranny, tranny. I mean again, folks, this is such a war on words It's crazy. What do you think? Well, this is what happens when you get multiculturalism. Often, so often, Alex devolves into multi legalism or multi rules. Great stocking stuffers. That's how we're gonna fund ourselves in the next year. So I wanna thank you all for your support. But whatever you do, spread the word about those local aminephemophiliates. And is your local church fighting abortion? Is your local church fighting the transgender to go after the kids? No, most of them aren't. Well, that local radio station's got me on air and other hosts make your tides with them. even if it's not tax deductible, So what? Mail them a check every month for $100 and say thanks for having Alex Jones on. You're a Russian agent. I'm like: yeah, dude, I'm a Russian agent, I'm American- 110%, and you know it. That's a typical liberal tactic. They try and tell you: everyone's liberal. That's what they try and do. That's how they drag you in, Why everyone wants to drop three-year-old's penises off. Yeah, exactly, Everyone's liberal. Everyone loves Satan. Yeah, It couldn't be further from the truth. Infowars lives. Driving into the operations center this morning, it just hit me like a ton of bricks. I need to reach directly out of the audience and just spell out the facts. Spend your money at places like Dick's Sporting Goods. You're financing a group that gives huge amounts of money to gun control, disarming you and your family. Then, when you go down the list and look at these companies like Walmart, did you know they're doing the same thing now? Did you know that almost every big box store, including Target- they're the worst- are actually funding the transgender movement, targeting children? Do you know what Jeff Bezos and Amazon's up to? Ladies and gentlemen, it'll make your head spin. Why in the hell are we supporting these people? Why are you going to buy your Christmas presents for your family from these institutions that hate America and hate your guts? They're unhealthy, They're hateful, They're very high rates of pedophilia and stuff. I mean what's wrong with them? They're just bottom feeders. I guess that's the bottom line to it. I don't know why they act exactly. Well, in fact, to take it all back, if you're exactly like you said earlier, if you're going to cut off your own son's penis at three years old. there's got to be something wrong with you. Like there's got to be something wrong with you. I mean at the age of, Yeah, you need to be executed. Yeah, there's absolutely something wrong with you, And there's something wrong with every single one of them. because even people that were masculine, they're just being bombarded. Yeah, testosterone is the very basis of masculinity in every single form And I think, if you look at some of the cultures which people are least easy to control, these are high testosterone males. If you have a whole bunch of low testosterone males, you have slaves, eunuchs. That's what they do. They just want a bunch of eunuchs. They just used to chop your waybows off and now they call it transgenderism And we're like, hey, it's cool, Let's chop all our babies' balls off. Yay, Anything to be popular, Anything to, like I said, sell their souls to the devil. I saw something on Twitter the other day. Some guy was bragging about the fact that he was the one who brought the drag queens to the children's story hour and how proud he is of himself, And you could tell, although there was a huge backlash, he just enjoyed the attention. This is a nobody, who's a weak little man who's never achieved anything in his life And he's got major governments behind him. There's no good. It's hard to find a good and bad. Everything's muddled. We're starting to get like that. Yeah, we're starting to get like that And then it goes downhill from there very, very quickly. But I'll say this: They're not Mexico's starting to push back against the transgender stuff. Well, that's one of the things that's kind of crazy where, like especially in England, we have this whole Muslim debate and we have a big problem with the jihadis, et cetera, et cetera. And someone was saying to me: all you know, but their countries are crazy. And I say, okay, their countries are crazy, but they're not chopping their son's dicks off. It's kind of You know, we're getting to a point where almost you can view some parts of our culture and we're more crazy than anybody. I was about to say the good for the Muslims saying: no, you're not going to teach my five-year-old how to get blow jobs. Yeah, absolutely, I have a family show folks, I don't like to talk about this. They're chopping little children's penises off. So we're going to say penis on air because we want to warn people. This is what's going on. We're not supposed to say it on air, but we'll let John Hopkins chop three-year-old's testicles off. No More calls back in 60 seconds. Thank you, Jose. I was doing these big jobs, national jobs, And soon as Obama got that sort of bashing, they went: wait a minute, it's like a record skipped. Yeah, That, it was like no more jobs. Yeah, you cannot criticize him, You're not allowed. Who is it? Is it Voltaire who said: look at who you can't criticize, You see who controls you Absolutely. Kenzie in Arizona said it's from the transgender story. I love Paul Watson, but he wrote this headline wrong: NHS overdiagnosing, sex change treatments for children. Well, over fears of being labeled transphobia Over. Yeah, if it's children, one is over, They're children. What do children know? So I am a 20-year-old Mackenna. Did I say it wrong? What did I say? Mackenzie, Mackenzie, yes, You're not a bull terrier, You're Mackenna. Sorry, It's okay. So basically, I'm just a 20-year-old mom, Stay at home And I watch you guys' videos all the time And I know that you guys were talking about transgender and everything and cutting things off and whatnot. But I was actually wondering how do you think that kind of correlates with circumcision? Because I'm all about consent and everything. So I don't know how I hear you. I think people have an argument for that, because nobody asked me when they did that And I don't know what it feels like if I supposedly had all that on there. So I I mean, I get where that's going. Like, you know, I'm not the Sanhedrin man, I'm not, you know, But I'm sure they sure took a knife to it. Yeah, Yeah, exactly. And right now I'm actually pregnant with our baby boy, our number two. So we're kind of like on the fence And I just kind of wanted to see your guys' opinion on it and everything with the fact that transgender. Well also, I mean, you know, is the doctor going to do a good job, Exactly Because you know what happens when they mess up. When they mess up, They just take more off, And then you give the kid medication too, and you don't know how they're going to react to the medication due to the fact that they're babies. Well, here's where we gotta. God didn't build us to have part of our pecker cutoff. all right, There's a purpose behind the shooting sports and it's to get us ready for anything. Earlier we mentioned the case of Mexico, where 99% of the people are just peasants and serfs because they have no power, because they're disarmed. There's no such thing as free speech if you're not armed. In the UK, Tate was talking about the trans BS going on in the UK and other places. Well, in the UK the police come to your door. If you post on social media that you oppose transgender surgery for children, the police come to your door. It's like it literally is the Department of Pre-Crime over there where they want to just log in what you're thinking. So I guess you're like on a roundup first list or a pre-hate crime, pre-crime list, And it's getting that way, almost that way, in the USA. I mean, you'll be kicked off of Facebook or Twitter for just posting that you're against trans. you know trans for children. Well, what they're trying to do, I think is use. And what happened in Washington DC at a giant store is that a security guard- a woman security guard- physically removed a male who would not leave a female bathroom and got arrested by DC police. Now what a chilling message this sends to law enforcement: That if you, you cannot even question a man in a dressing room, mentally ill men can come in and loiter and obsess as a whole subculture of this And no one has any power to do anything. because we're giving sexual perversion a God-like special status. That's right. We've given anti-discrimination status to perversion and I think transgenderism is more or less a perversion. And the important thing here is: remember we are the vast majority who doesn't buy into transgenders- by an even optimistic estimate, 0.002% of the population. And yet the media is putting out such a campaign and this police arresting a security guard for upholding and doing her duty sends a chilling effect so that nobody dares speak out against this. And then you add to this hate speech thing, you know where, and that goes into the Muslim immigration thing. you know they're basically trying to have a war on Western culture and a war on Western conservative voting values by flooding Europe and the United States with the legal aliens and Muslims, And, of course, the message is: you are intolerant, you are racist and you are hateful if you don't accept the law, So they're attempting to break our back by tripling down. I think it's going to backfire. You don't stand up. They're going to label everything that we believe in, including constitutionalism, as extreme. There's a huge Washington Post article out saying the threat to liberty is a constitutionalist. We've got to arrest them all. And what happens, though, is when war comes, and when you're in a globalist conflict, and our leaders come out of their bunkers and say: look, there's these constitutional, these conspiracies in our world that aren't supporting our troops, to think that we are involved and that we were responsible for bringing this war upon you. We need to lock these people up, just like we had to lock up the Japanese, And, if you provide the sufficient psychological environment for the American people to be embarrassed, don't dare stand out and don't dare say what you think about transgenders, And it's hardly a single person. Look at Governor McGrory of North Carolina. Sure, sure They picked the most radical wild thing and now they're going to put boys and girls' showers in the sixth grade, just to see what we won't put up with. It's a total assault. But when Governor McGrory in North Carolina refused and went along with this transgender, I'm sympathetic to the guy. Instead of saying, what transgender? where's the evidence? How do you scientifically show whether it's? Well, it's about going into schools and telling kids you're transgender. It's about sexual contact with the state and your children. So, as I say, I'm not very optimistic about where this is going, Alex, And you know that's why I wrote the book Strategic Relocation. I think, while we fight this battle- and this is the time to fight it, when there's this mass wave of resistance building, but I'll tell you, they look like they're co-opting Donald Trump and if we aren't able to get a major change in 2016, we're going to lose the Supreme Court. We could have maybe three to four justices- No, I agree- and they are ready to start persecuting us. did you see the former USA Today editor coming out, Richard Benito, saying: look, we get in these meetings and people are happy groveling the lie and to do whatever Obama says? Have you seen that article? Yeah, and they are. They grovel at that. I mean. what I'm saying is you have so many people who are so anxious to please the establishment, please the media, please their schoolteachers, please their education establishment, that when you get a wave of movement, a psychological movement that says transgenders are untouchable, you got to praise transgenders. they just jump right on the band. where there's no conspiracy involved, It's just, And that's an Overson window. If they can let the government sexualize our children in the fifth grade, then the sky's the limit, That's right, And they're not through. They're going to shut down opposition so that no one can say nay without being accused of hate speech and locked up, and they can do that before war. So the answer is: everybody, use their free speech now. promote links to World Affairs Brief, infowarscom, Drudge. tell the truth, do your own media, your own local shows. just get involved and just try to absolutely point out that free speech is vital and precious and that you just can't take info wars or World Affairs Brief or whatever for granted. You know, it's just like two crucial issues I covered in the World Affairs Brief this last time. I had to get people the philosophical ammunition so that they can go up against transgenders, so they can go up against civil rights and anti-discrimination laws. First of all, I said: you know you've got to understand what a true definition of fundamental right is. If you're going to go up and say what's wrong with giving anti-discrimination rights, whether it's rape or anything, Sure, You have to not have the school teach them how to have sex when they're five years old. Yeah, and you've got to understand how to define those rights. I do it in the World Affairs Brief. Your listeners can get a free copy by just emailing me at editoratworldaffairsbriefcom. But I also talked about why the transgender thing is bogus and you've got to stand up against it. You can't just cow-tow and say, oh yes, everybody deserves to be respected by the truth. And even I cow-tow because I don't hate people individually for whatever they've been raised and brainwashed by the system. I don't hate people individually. but the agenda is anti-family, anti-human. But I get it. I should just say absolutely not, because even being friendly somehow just empowers the whole deal, Because we're being raped with this, We're being force fed this. I mean there's just no way I would tolerate transgender claims, because there's no way for anyone to justify scientifically a transgender claim. Maybe you look at Caitlyn Jenner, Bruce Jenner Now Bruce Jenner wants to go back to being a man. He only still has sex with women and that means he hasn't had, he's had a boob operation but he has not had a genital operation And that's just despicable, Just like body modification. when you have horns put on yourself, it doesn't really mean you're a lizard. That's right. And, as I've quoted, in the World of First Breed there's a professor at John Hopkins that says all of this transgender stuff is bogus. They are still males in DNA, in hormones, in all of the aspects of the body where male and female differ, and you cannot change that Sure. In closing, what is the main agenda behind this? I mean, obviously, in the family, make the state God that destroys the human family. So this is an anti-human agenda. And then Joe realized- and I was a big jerk about it and I did it wrong And I was very vicious on air to get his attention and to attack him with brotherly love into understanding just how serious the situation was And if he was trying to go along to get along and conform with something that wants to kill him and his family, that I was going to come after him viciously to just give him a little understanding of what was coming in the future from people far worse than me if he didn't wake the you know what up. And so that's not about Alex Jones getting credit with that, It was the world being tyrannical and the oppression and the lying and the fact that the gloves are off and the mask is off. that finally got Joe to wake up. But now you see, he's a good guy. as the pressure's on, He wants to be with humanity, He wants to buck the system and he sees, humanity wants the truth too, And it makes him more popular. And so Dave Chappelle, who's gone along with a lot of political correctness over the years- very politically correct, you know, with a kind of a leftist angle 10 years ago, even five years ago- Now coming out saying F big tech, F all these big operations, You know, transgenders are encroaching on women's areas. I don't hate transgenders, he's saying, but you can't sit there and say that everybody didn't come out of a woman, but they're getting ready where humans don't come out of women, where humanoids are made in test tubes. So they want to delegitimize that Almost all the births are now cesareans, that most women aren't breastfeeding. We're being phased out. Babies are supposed to sleep with their mother, not be put in a crib in an industrial setting. All of this is dehumanization. And the realization once again: the fragility of this planet, the coming catastrophic event, and we all have to clean this act up now. Well said, We have to clean this act up. now We've been bad, but the coming catastrophic event, the world financial collapse, the super virus is coming because the jungles are too hot. No, it's coming out of the labs. So there it is. So then you know, I look at Dave Chappelle coming to Netflix and saying: F you, it's my last one, So I'm sure they're about to resign him And oh, the whole thing's about transgenderism and gay, this gay, that It's. the whole focus is about that. And then he shows the radicalness to be able to say, screw you, women have babies. And we're like, oh my God. he said two plus two equals four. But were you told that you'd be protected? Cause you're not going to be, And so you can pretend you're part of the power structure all day? You can pretend you're part of the system, listening to my phones and Joe's phones and Tucker Carlson's phones and reading all our emails and having your law firms come after us. You can do all that till the cows come home. but make no mistake, This is a spiritual fight on this beautiful planet and God's real and God is watching you And you will get religion not out of the stupid controlled churches but out of the real things that are going down in the third dimension and above and below it. So let's go ahead and just play two plus two equals four, with Dave Chappelle Still making everything about the transgenders and everything about a group that was 1 10th of 1% five years ago And the chemicals in the food and the water. that is the biological side. then they give you the social side of saying: be feminine, be sterile, have shriveled genitals, everything that bisphenol A and the phthalates do on record to feminize men, hyper feminize women. Men become sterile and have tiny penises. Women go into puberty at age five and are dead by breast cancer by 35. That's the gift of depopulation they give you. And then, while you're dying, they make you love it. And I use the last man on earth analogy: remade into omega man, remade into I'm legend where Vincent Price basically finds the cure but the zombies don't want the cure. They're human beings, we should love them And the proclivity that they feel like they're women is because it's been chemically done to them And it's the culture inducting them into this And they're trying to conform, they're trying to survive. I mean, you go to New York, almost every black guy you see talks like a woman at the store and is this sugar plum? blah, blah, blah. And it's a big black guy who they've told to act like a woman and to submit to it and to be it: or we'll kill your ass or we'll put you in prison. This is the chemical warfare, This is the biological warfare, This is the system. This is the one child policy of the West is the transgenderism, And these people are victims. they're not our enemies. But then you have the priesthood pedophiles who have the Renfield operatives, who are the big muscle men then saying they're a woman, who go out to be predators against women and to have that cover and say you wouldn't hit a woman so they can go in bathrooms and rape women. There's that satanic side to it And so it's got many different multifacents. but to sit there and to say, hey, I don't know about you, but every baby in this world came out between a woman's legs. She sold so many books. the Bible worries about her. And they canceled her because she said in an interview- and this is not exactly what she said, but effectually she said gender was a fact. And then the trans community got mad as shit. They started calling her a TERF. I didn't even know what the fuck that was, But I know that trans people make up words to win arguments, So I looked it up. TERF is an acronym Stands for trans, exclusionary, radical feminists. This is a real thing. This is a group of women that hate transgender. They don't hate transgender women, but they look at trans women the way we blacks might look at blackface. It offends them, Like this bitch is doing an impression of me. Now, I shouldn't speak on this because I am not a woman, nor am I a trans, But as we've established Head pause, I got to say something and back it up 30 seconds or 20 seconds. Oh, because you're not a woman. you can't speak about men dressing up like women. This idea that only people in certain groups can talk about that and that's their own group, where they're then led by the globalist and whoever the subculture leader is, that's the divide and conquer strategy. But notice, he goes. hey, JK Rowling, she's good. I mean, the Christians hate her. It's like: hey, liberals, remember She talks to your kids about hocus, pocus and all this. But now she sees women's spaces being taken over, where they again they go in men with penises and say: hey, I'm a woman, do a check on my cervix. And the female nurse goes: sir, that you, that's a penis fired. That's a cult folks, And so they know what it is. They need you to accept vaccines that aren't vaccines, that hurt you, that don't protect you. They need to sell you on tyranny. They need to sell you on oppression. But who knows? What we all instinctively know is how to stop them. For Infowarscom, this is Greg Rees. Joe Rogan said years ago it's wrong for biological men to be in women's sports. Of course that's true. And again, oh, you're hateful to the trans people. What hateful to them having rights nobody else has. Hateful to them controlling my speech. Hateful of the fact that men can rape women in prison because they say: they're a damn woman, You damn right. I don't like those men raping women. Flip the switch and supercharge your mind with Brain Force Ultra, exclusively available at infowarsstorecom.The progressive trans-cancel culture is gradually eliminating the biologically natural female sex. I have undoubtedly been under the spotlight over the past few months. How have you been dealing with that and reasoning with everything? I try to ignore it as much as I can. I try to focus on my swimming, what I need to do to get ready for my races, and just try to block out everything else, Aside from us now having to accept any naturally born female that comes in second or possibly third place as the actual winner in women's sports. USA Today awarded transgender assistant, human health and services secretary, Dr Rachel Levine woman of the year. My definition of courage would be to be true to yourself and to be true to who you are, and then to pay that forward to work towards the common good. 2022 is becoming the year when transgenders fully inserted themselves into the status quo to achieve the Saul Alinsky judo move on equality. former state health secretary, Dr Rachel Levine, making history again. She is now the first female and openly transgender four star officer with the US Public Health Service Commissioned Corps. May this appointment today be the first of many more to come as we create a diverse and more inclusive future. Diversity makes us stronger. Each person has a different perspective and different strengths that they bring to make the whole community stronger. The time is now for our country to continue to move the bar forward for diversity, and I am proud to wear this uniform and answer that call, regardless of the fact that Levine didn't even deserve it, after evacuating Levine's mother from a nursing home facility, while supporting the decision to allow COVID positive patients to return back to those facilities, a decision that caused a massive outbreak and death. to normalize the path to male and trans domination. Last year, Miss Nevada became the first transgender to compete for the Miss USA pageant, while Jeopardy welcomed its first trans contestant into the tournament of champions. Of course, drag queen story hour has further eroded the moral compass foisted upon our children and also paving the way where the Marxist radicals behind the BLM movement, who were openly calling for the end to the family, A movement supported by a corporatocracy infiltrated by Marxist slogans and symbolism, the Marxist are daily using the techniques of Saul Alinsky to press ever forward, to obliterate the American dream. His name is Saul Alinsky and there are still many to whom the name is meaningless, but to millions now he is looked on as a savior, and these are the so-called have nots, that culturally deprived, the abject poor. they love him and they ask him in to organize their weakness into a strength and power that has become a frightening threat to the establishment. I suppose, given a choice, I think I would pick hell. Send in Mississippi instead of north of Mississippi, so we can all get freedom and equality down there too. Amazon supports the protest. city bank CEO, people with the most accumulated capital in America are also on the side of this protest. Why? Because, in my view, they use identity politics and racial politics. they want to split the country along those lines, In particular, utilizing Alinsky's major tactic to maintain a constant pressure upon the opposition by using the constructive alternative, ie transgenderism, as the price for a successful attack. This isn't, and hasn't been about equality When the corporations have auctioned off the natural rights and achievements of women in order to support the agenda of the Marxist political establishment. we are clearly at war from within with a foreign enemy- John Bown reporting. Ladies and gentlemen, I need your help. I need your help keeping Info Wars on the air and strong. here's the deal. This is a family show. They're coming after our children. They're coming after our children And it's all a scientific death cult that wants to brainwash us into submission. It's not that I hate men that feel like they're women or men that want to live as a woman. I don't hate anybody that didn't hurt other people- but this whole thing is a raping of our psyche: raping us, cutting off the food, raping us with power prices and energy prices, raping us with the deadly shots, raping us with the transgenderism and conducting brainwashing of our children under peer pressure to rope them into this So the state can form a relationship with the children and claim: oh, parents' rights are nixed out, Your five-year-old son thinks he's a girl, And then they get celebrated by the school and by the clique And at age seven, the balls are cut off. So it's what it's all about. And the media is like: oh, Liz Thompson, isn't she bold and brave and stunning and amazing? Aren't all these biological men winning all the women's sports. Isn't it great You don't see women going up into men's sports because they can't, and have way more bone, way more blood, way more everything. They got to get you ready for the collapse and that they're the good guys that told you it was coming to save the world. kill your dog and cat and eat bugs, says the Jeffrey Epstein alumnus owner of the Atlantic. The lady that owns it tells you pedophilia is not bad, but it also doesn't exist and she's a favorite out at Epstein. Pito Island. Steve Jobs' wife, Savannah Hernandez, takes us into the Pito rabbit hole. That's what all this transgenderism is about, targeting children, sexualization of children and so much more. on the other side, ladies and gentlemen, And one of our biggest problems is so-called conservative leaders that go along. Our world is so full of hype. We are force-fed dehumanizing propaganda by the corporate media, by the controlled churches and the universities. And why is this the case? savannah hernandez is here to give us the backside of the story. it was on tucker carlson's show and then i guess that upset them- that her clip with this young lady, this swimmer, was there. this lady filed a complaint. she got a lot of heat and so savannah's got the banned clip here as well. so, savannah, you're the expert on the ground there doing great work over there for trumps, truth social out there on the street. tell us the story and the details here, because as if this transgender men taking over women's spaces, adult men and in children girl showers, as if all this isn't insane enough, now the women aren't allowed to complain by the big tech bullies, so they're caught in a big pincer attack. tell us about it. yeah, alex. so first off, when i went and covered the ncda championship, this was the first time that i've ever watched a women's swimming competition, and watching leah thomas compete was absolutely insane. he took off like a rocket. she was a fifth year senior, so this was her last ncda. her teammate broke down in tears, and so rose decided to share her story with me. now the clip immediately went viral. tucker carlson played it on his show and what ended up happening was- andy know, was sending me so many twitter accounts that were antifa twitter accounts saying: oh, this is savannah hernandez, this is a van evasion account. she needs to be deleted because she's drumming up hate against leah thomas. so this was a targeted attack to take down my footage exposing leah thomas for the man that he is taking away from female sports, and i also exposed the lgbtq community that was across the street looking like absolute fools saying that women can get pe- yeah- that women have penises, that men can get periods. it's so confusing that i can barely even keep up with it. so i exposed the lgbtq community, we exposed leah thomas, we made national news. and what happened? twitter, of course, deleted and censored all of the footage. yeah, you guys can follow me on truth social. at sas says you can follow my website, sasasofficialcom for all of this band footage. alex, i was even talking to uh do behind the scenes about starting a band off video channel, since none of my content and live on these platforms. so, hey, maybe you'll see my footage here on band off video here in a bit. but, uh, go follow me on all of those platforms, continue to get the word out because, again, this isn't about me being silenced, it's about these american women who were trying to have their voice heard being silenced. and also to alex last thing i'll add: i interviewed another former ncda athlete who ran against june eastwood, who was a transgender track and field star. uh, she heard june's coach saying on the sidelines: hey, slow down, because june was in first place, because june was a biological man. so that's what our girls are up against. so they're even telling them slow down, like, like, like, when a boxer throws a fight, they don't want him to throw it all the way. just, hey, make it look hard. you know, give them a show, because it'd be like putting mike tyson in the ring, you know, with a high school boxer. i mean he would destroy them. he'd be like: who's going to go watch that? look, folks, the? there is an evil globalist force behind all this: the taba stock institute, behavioral psychology. there is a larger dehumanization to begin to accept cyborgs and human animal clones, uh, that they're already rolling out, and that's what this transgender idiocy is just getting us to accept it up front. savannah nandes, thank you so much. thank you so much, alex. okay, listen, ladies and gentlemen, it is in mainstream news that the british government- but so did our government- paid bounties to kill people that had covered. now we, we could see this, we knew this, the government of the uk is now admitting and we have a special guest that's been exposing this for over a year joining us, coming up in the next hour and, as i said, tonight, seven to ten pm, a special live broadcast only at info wars dot com for its last show and band i video will take your calls and so much more on the state of the world. it is amazing experience: pure medica, bollum and b12 for yourself and fund the second america revolution against the tyrants at info wars store dot com in force live dot com. or triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine. you're listening to the alex jones show live from the info wars dot com studios. you're listening to the alex jones show there. ain't nothing to listen to me, baby. well, jessica yoni is a transgender woman and is powerful lgbtq two s i a plus activists. she currently uh ran for miss bc and plans to run again 2020. lives in canada. she believes strongly in human rights and equality. she also is a well-known tech blogger and is on her 10th year running trusted nerd dot com, and so, um, it's, it's good to have you on with us. i know you're scheduled, or scheduled, for you to be on the war room with. i want shroyer today. uh, tell us, tell us, uh, a little bit about yourself- and i mean you're all over the news- what your main mission is. yeah, so my main mission is essentially human rights and lgbtq equality. um, like, i am a transgender woman and i was really seeking, uh, gender firming care services. when it was so, what things like when it comes to waxing, facials, pedicures, manicures, head massage, the whole nine yards- and i was pretty distraught to see the level of discrimination that is out there when it comes to people in the lgbtq trying to receive gender firming care services. it's, it's horrible and i did not feel right to just let this go. um, you know when, when they are, when these providers are willing to do services on someone who is a male and not a transgender, but an actual male, but they're unwilling to do it on a transgender woman or even a transgender, uh, male, um, that just i don't understand. that, okay, can i bring, because i've seen articles in the uk where the national health service, where a nurse, doesn't want to do a pap smear, uh, on a uh person calling themselves transgender. i'm not a libertarian. somebody wants to say they're a woman, whatever, but, but, but what about? what about when there's not a, a cervix? uh, that's like saying, you know, give me a root canal, but i don't have any teeth? yeah it, it's. it's different, um, it's different when it comes to things like, um, like gynecology, like myself- it's a little bit embarrassing, but i do have a gynecologist, um, i have been checked um. but but when it comes to like but when it comes to people that are that do not exactly need that service- for example, um cervical exams on on rather a biological man that doesn't need that- then yeah, that that i totally understand. uh, the refusal service when it comes to health, like a female doesn't need, like a biological female doesn't need to go in and get a prostate exam unless she's intersex and or has some sort of, some sort of um abnormality happening there. let me ask you this: why do you think all this transgenderism is so hot? why is it just everywhere? every children show, every tv program, every, it's just everywhere. you just it's everywhere. i think it's because we live in a new day and age. i couldn't handle it, uh, but i was good enough to get hurt real bad every game, but i was. i'm not a tough guy, but it was still weird to pull my clothes off and you know, and get naked around guys and the coaches would walk through and once a year they'd come in and do a test to make sure i didn't have a hernia, and you know what. the coach would stick his finger you know where, or or the, uh, the doctor would, and i didn't like that. and and my daughters are even more squeamish and stuff, and you know i have three daughters and sometimes i walk by their room and one of them's, you know, half naked and they freak out, oh dad. and slam the door like, like chris qualmo said a few years ago. he said like 12 year old girl should be ready to have a transgender man as a woman in the shower and if they see his genitals they shouldn't get upset. i don't think that's reasonable. i do um actually, because you know, there people want to start segregating um, uh, segregating sex and, from from what i see, i don't think the average women particularly want to be around a bunch of about a round, a bunch of swans. yes and no, yes and no. i i i do agree where, i do agree where you're getting out here. we're being used by god. you're being used by god. this is providence. so i salute you and i thank you for all you've done from the bottom of my heart. you're listening to the alex jones show. jessica yanov is a transgender from canada, and we only got this segment, maybe one more, so we got to move quickly here. i want to break this down. um, we have photos, uh, here in articles, with you, um, you know, at these events- or what are these events where? where you're in bathrooms and i've got some of the tweets here and some of the things, uh, that you say here. what is this activism? um, i kind of have my suspicions on who it is, but i'm not going to say exactly who, um, because i can't but um, but no, i didn't write any of that, sure, sure, what did you mean earlier by you can't discriminate by age? what does that mean? well, what? what i mean by that is like: oh, i'm going to give an example. last night, my mom tried to book me for a facial and what happened with that is the. the person on the other side, uh, then asked her: how old is your transgender daughter? uh, to which she replied 32, and then, um, both of us were refused service, not only um and on, on several protected grounds actually- and this is going to go before the tribunal- but um, but essentially, essentially on family status, gender identity, expression, sex, um, and what's the? and also age as well. so i'm just asking the question: if you're a woman, because i'm not big into, i might have had one pedicure, one manicure in my life, and i've, and i've been on a cruise before my ex-wife and they said, hey, you want his and hers facials. they did this facial, put cream on my face and did all this. i mean, they weren't asking man or woman, they just said: you want a facial. so how does i don't even get how they're like. you're on the line, i'm a transgender, i'm getting a facial and they're like: no, i mean well, exactly the the. the problem, the problem that we have where i reside is there's quite um quite racialized cultural groups here that do not believe in transgenderism and they believe that they have the right, um, they believe that they have the right to review service on any basis that they want, including that, oh, let me guess, because most of- i mean, like i'd say, 70% of the nails and facial stuff is it? is it vietnamese or asians? uh, it's kind of a mix, it's like. like, the way i explained it to the tribunal is, when you deal with things like waxing, it's usually vietnamese or east indian, um, or taiwanese. it's, you know, in their culture they're not, or any culture. you're not supposed to touch anybody's. if you're a woman, you're not supposed to touch another man's penis unless it's your husband. i know, but since when do we have a penis on our forehead? so so i don't understand. why would we want to make a woman? i'm just asking why we want to make a woman if it's her religious or cultural thing that maybe she's a bit, has been with one man in her life, i mean most, even wild women i've known, you know right away, aren't just ready to jump in the sack, well then, how do you think a woman is ready to touch her? i just don't get that. but when they try to make other people comport to what they want, like like almost all the the sprinting, almost all the power lifting, from australia to the us, to canada's, being won by biological men who have twice the size bones, twice the muscle, on average, they even have their genitals, so they have testosterone. well it men, biological men, are going to win every competition in the world now, rendering women's sports obsolete, whether it's basketball or football or hockey, it'll be all biological men- nice, pretty hair, nice fingernails, but it'll be. it'll be biological men, and women will be obsolete in sports. is that, is that inclusive? no, and and and that's actually where i i agree with you when it comes, when it comes to things such as sporting competitions and such- and i had, i had quite a um, i had quite a discussion about this with, uh, the good friend of mine, um, named lin, um, especially in regards to the article you just pulled up, um, i don't agree with um. i i don't agree with transgender, um, transgender identifying individuals going into sports and winning competitions when they still have a heavy, heavy, heavy level of testosterone. and i'm gonna give you an example here: uh, before i transitioned, i had quite a, uh, quite a high testosterone level, um, and then i started hormone replacement therapy. and when you start hormone replacement therapy, those, those pills, essentially, essentially, eliminate your testosterone. like what i had, as was a level of 14, i now have a level of 1.2, uh, for example, on my testosterone. so what i do believe is that these, these individuals can compete if their testosterone levels are below, uh, below a certain number, that being like below four or well above the hell. but i don't, i don't agree, i don't agree with um, i don't agree with transgender females pumping themselves up with testosterone to even get above what, um, what a biological male would, because that gets into risky territory. i've heard of cases where people are breaking, breaking necks, breaking bones, breaking everything. well, sir, i'll say this, i'll say this: humans change their environment. we build our own structures, we change ourselves. that's a human trait. you've won a lot of battles and there are a lot of people like myself and many others who are going to continue. we're going to keep fighting in the info war and even if something does happen to you or your show, know for a fact that you've gotten a lot of people fired up for liberty. thank you, sir, for calling. you're listening to the alex jones show defending the republic from enemies, foreign and domestic. it's alex jones. jessica yana is a transgender, male to female, and he's coming on the show. so i'm being nice here. but we've got a esthetician here, that's. it's also trained to be a producer doing a great job. becca, and she was explaining that what you're trained to do, she says she's done. what, what's your take on that? you know, uh, you know. one thing i want to say about the post millennial is, um, it's to my understanding that the, that the council, the, the, the owner of the law firm that is counsel to the respondents, own supposed millennialcom. they have published the found material articles about me day in and day out. but i, i really want, i really want to get to something important here, because i do believe that this is important. you know, going back to the refusal of service, you know they, they're essentially saying that you know we won't do service on a man or transgender. but transgender also means, uh, female to male. i have a friend, her name, his name is um, is taylor, and he, you know he, he's female to male. so what's essentially how happening here is they are also refusing service on transgender males, that being ones that also have 100 percent. Well, let me raise this. you have record levels of autism and record levels of suicide, mental illness and transgendered. a lot of people don't want to deal with a mental health issue. What do you mean? Well, you're, you're, you're actually well spoken and and holding your own, but i mean a lot of times you see a crazy transgender bank robber or the men. i mean the statistics are there that there are a lot of autistic people and stuff that that uh end up getting tricked when they're young to being- quote other sex. let's bring in Becca, uh, who is a- uh, you know, skin expert. that's what an esthetician she wanted to say something. go ahead, hey, Jessica, nice to meet you. hey, hi. so, working as an esthetician for 10 years and actually worked in san francisco, so i had a lot of male clientele, uh, gay people, straight people, transgender. i've done it all and- and i know i was actually pretty rare in the industry- there's not a lot of people that do that type of service. i'm just wondering if it's an actual discrimination issue or if you're just encountered someone who was not trained in that service. i mean, it is quite different. there's a lot of different training involved. having storeable foods and the ability to purify water will give you a fighting chance in the next level, and being without puts you at the mercy of others or makes you a slave to a dying system. by storeable foods and an Alexa pure gravity water filter today, support mankind by being prepared and support freedom by buying from info wars store dot com. you're listening to the Alex Jones show, broadcasting live from the UN stronghold, Austin, Texas. you're listening to the Alex Jones show and now your host, Paul Joseph Watson, and we are live talking about Jessica you need, who was on the show earlier. you've got to commend her for coming on the show and having on intended the balls to speak up and defend her trans activism, the latest, latest example of which involves organizing a swimming session for girls as young as 12 at which it specifically says their parents and guardians are not allowed to be present. a trans activist who gained notoriety for attempting to force beauticians to wax their balls and penis is now ranging a swimming session for girls as young as 12 where parents will not be allowed to be present. this is happening, or it was going to happen. I think. the first one was cancelled and then they- she was trying to organize another one at the Al Anderson Memorial pool in Langley, British Columbia, Canada. the promotional material for the event states parents and or caregivers are not permitted in the event. it's important to state from the outset that Jessica you need denies this story and denies that she was behind the conversations mentioned in this article, just as she denied that she was behind the tweets when Alex was interviewing her earlier. very easy get out clause, that isn't. it says a young woman has come forward with with serious allegations of abuse against Jonathan. Jessica you need. you need. the male to female transgender has recently risen to infamy for the human rights tribunal suits. she's taken out in 16 estitians declining to perform waxing services on her male genitals. we talked about that earlier, but now, 20 year old Jessica Rumpel of Samanish, Washington State has disclosed details to the post millennial of her encounters with Jessica you need. guess what her encounters were with Jessica you need? well, Rumpel was just 14 years old at the time of the interactions, just about to turn 15, and if you were pull up this article, you can see the actual conversations, again denied by Jessica you need. so Yannive obviously has some weird fetish obsession with female sanitary products. the alleged victim says Yannive always told me he uses pads and wants to go into the ladies bathroom. as we saw with the tweets, that seems to be a constant obsession, but of course they're fake too. apparently Yannive asked me how to go into the ladies bathroom without being caught and then how to be in the bathroom if there's a lot of women or girls and, as we saw before, there are selfies that this Jessica Yannive individuals has took in female changing rooms. so the conversation continues and it's basically Jessica Yannive asking if she- with male genitalia, of course- can get changed in front of young women and girls in a female locker room. according to Rumpel, the alleged victim, Yannive, did not identify as transgender at any point during their interactions. now, of course, if you look at the screenshots of that chat now, it shows Jessica Yannive locking or presenting as a female, because of course, that's what happens on Facebook. even though the conversations old- several years old, in fact, I think five years old- the profile picture is still going to show up as the current profile picture, so that's why it does that. the victim continued she believed Yannive simply had a fetish for bathrooms, pads and girls clothing, as Yannive would also be in sending Rumpel worrying messages, including photos of himself in girls jeans, asking for comments and compliments from the then 15 year old. so, as you can see there the Jessica Yannive is sending pictures of herself in what she claims are women's jeans and asking if they look okay. so I salute you and I thank you for all you've done from the bottom of my heart. info wars- the most banned network in the world. you're listening to the Alex Jones show, news analysis reports. it's the Alex Jones show and now your host, Paul Joseph Watson. we are back. Jessica, you need the transgender activists. who is basically at the forefront of having 15 female beauticians, investigator by the Canadian human rights tribunal refusing to wax her testicles through this allegation of a Facebook conversation with a then 14 year old girl who claimed- and these messages, if true, prove it again- it's being denied by. you need that the messages are true, but if they are, then it proves obvious child grooming. of course you need was on the show earlier, denied all this and will be on the show again, I believe, in the war room, in the next hour. but this really got prominent over the past few days because the British comedian Ricky Gervais, who is a free speech advocate, waited into the debate and there's actually a funny tweet which I tweeted earlier, which was a daily caller article headlined: Ricky Gervais doesn't think women should be forced to wax testicles. and then one of the responses below that tweet was from somebody who said the moment that Ricky Gervais became alt right. that's right, because if you don't think women should be forced to wax men's testicles, that means you're not see. now that's how much the overton window is shifted in clown world newsbusters reports. Ricky Gervais called transphobe for defending women refusing to wax trans woman's penis. warning course language throughout. again, I have to read this ahead of actually saying it. British comedian Ricky Gervais has been called transphobic over defending women refusing to wax trans women in Canada because they're uncomfortable dealing with their clients very male genitalia. Gervais defended the spa workers, saying that it's- quote- real feminism for women to choose who to wax or not. but internet users aren't having it. on Sunday, Gervais weighed in and one of the most most stupidly welk issues to crop up in recent memory in Canada, demonstrating himself as a celebrity that isn't completely devoid of common sense, he put out a controversial tweet which said: quote: how did we get to the point where women are having to fight for the right to choose whether they wax some big old hairy cock and balls or not? is it not human rights? have your meat and two veg polished. and, of course, he was immediately attacked. Twitter warriors clamored against Gervais as posting its language like that that has threatened trans people and that it contributes to the larger hashtag war on women. again, there are feminists, quite radical feminists, who are called transphobes, who are called terfs, who have been excluded from public conversations, who have been banned from social media platforms for daring to suggest that men with their testicles hanging out shouldn't be allowed into female locker rooms. one respondent said this was LGBTQ activist. Amy Martin quote: Ricky Gervais is a transphobic, barely disguised as his bigotry. is feminism? real feminism includes all women, including trans women. so they're literally defending a man who wants to force women to shave his testicles. that's feminism in 2019. in clown world, Gervais replied: surely real feminism also covers a woman's right not to have to wax someone's knob and bollocks if they don't want to. and it went on from there. again, we've got these new messages now that post millenials posted which seem to indicate that this is part of a child grooming operation. we're going to go to it right now. this is Lindsay Shepherd, free speech activist, on why she was banned by Twitter. here it is: Hi everyone, I have been permanently banned from Twitter and, yes, I did file an appeal, but it was quickly denied. you may have watched the video that I made last night where I talk about the same topic- my Twitter ban- but I had to take it down and give another shot because I had to make some corrections in order to comply with a publication ban. I was banned from Twitter for responding to a couple of tweets that an individual that I will only refer to you as JY made about me. so JY has a very complicated backstory that is getting more and more disjointed, so all I'm going to say here is that JY purports to be a transgender woman, and JY is someone that lives in the same province that I do, which is why I probably feel a little more invested in this issue than other people who don't live in this province. there are leaked Facebook message screenshots where JY is trying to get advice on how to approach preteen girls in the female washrooms, and he says things like: can you see tampon strings hanging out of a girl's pussy? what do girls do in the bathroom? stall white pussy and change panty liner. oh, I'm going on the BC fairies next week and lots of 10 year old girls go on field trips on the ferry. and then I reply and I say: at least I have a uterus, you ugly fat man. I deleted the tweets in the morning when I woke up, but was permanently suspended by the afternoon. some people have said that I should have never engaged with JY online. I shouldn't have sunk to his level. but the thing is, this is someone who straight up ruins people's lives, and I'm not talking about the Twitter bans, I'm talking about really ruining people's lives. and the reason I think the JY situation is so important is because it proves trans people are untouchable. JY is allowed to make crude and disgusting comments and misogynistic comments, but when I want to talk back to him, stand up for myself, defend myself, I'm silenced and kicked off of the platform permanently, but JY receives no punishment and remains on the platform. the moral of the story is: you can't stand up for yourself against a trans person. one more evidence of this: watch the video I made called did I harass a trans person? it's I tell the story of a fellow grad student who made a complaint against me at my university and he was a trans individual who would always try to instigate conflict with me, and he made a complaint saying I was the problem. so when it comes to trans people, they are untouchable, they are beyond criticism, beyond questioning, and you are not allowed to stand up for yourself against them. and sometimes the comment comes up like: why are you so focused on trans issues? and it's because, unfortunately, trans activism is one of the major hindrances to free speech and open inquiry in this country, if not the number one hindrance. trans activism is responsible for silencing and stifling so many discussions that we need to have in our society. so thank you so much to everyone that is bringing attention to my twitter ban and to the JY situation. you're listening to the Alex Jones show and now your host, Paul Joseph Watson. We are back and we've stopped talking about Jessica you need, which most of you will be delighted about. A few months ago on Twitter, I put in my Twitter bio he him as my preferred pronouns as a joke. I removed them later, but I put them in for a few weeks as a joke. Now we have this headline out of the Daily Caller: These 2020 Democrats have their preferred gender pronouns in their Twitter bios. Of course, there are no transgender Democrat 2020 presidential candidates, so far at least, or any who have identified as transgender. But three prominent Democratic presidential candidates have their preferred gender pronouns in their Twitter bios. Former Housing and Urban Development Secretary Julian Castro's bio declares he him L. New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio's bio says he him. That's literally what I did as a joke. how Bill de Blasio, the mayor of New York City, has it. Okay, I gotta be honest, I don't know how Alex Jones does it? I really don't. I've been working here for about five years and it is a weight man to have to talk about this every day, to have to focus on this every day. And we have victories, Don't get me wrong. They're always a little bit bittersweet, aren't they? Especially now, with all the talk about transgenderism in the news, People waking up to the cult indoctrination that our children are subjected to in public schools, It's like, on one hand, it's like: good, yes, wake up to this, realize what's going on. Hopefully now you can take that next step into understanding that this isn't a simple or momentary aberration but is part of a much larger plan of dehumanization as part of depopulation. Like, hopefully you can take that next step. So it's good people are understanding what's going on now. The bad news is that it's been going on for years and nobody seemed to care. 2016 at the latest? We're the only outlet talking about it. We're the only ones going. yeah, this is weird, This is creepy when you have a man with a beard, in a see-through dress, twerking for a child. There's something weird about this, in our opinion. And the drag queen stuff is especially strange because it doesn't even have the cover of transgenderism. You could at least claim, if you wanted to, that there was some sort of something going on in the mind. Oh, I'm not the gender I was born as, but drag queens, they're just men. They know they're men. They're not pretending to be women, They're dressing up like women for sexual gratification. We were talking about this forever. It's always bittersweet, It's always like good, yes, you're waking up to this, Fantastic, But at the same time, where were you? Why did it take you this long? You understand that if we had stopped this five years ago, it would have never gotten to this point, And that because you ignored us, because you rolled your eyes, because you had this pathological altruism of oh well, they just want to be themselves and you allowed the predators to target your children. Now we got a lot of reversal to do, a lot of pushback to get into- And I'll talk about in the next segment some of the calls I got this morning on American Journal, the show that I host from 8 to 11 every weekday morning here on M4scom. We are a call and show primarily, and the last two or three calls that we got are really stuck in my mind because it's more widespread than you would think, the way that the state law enforcement apparatus is cooperating and working hand in hand with the public school system to enforce transgenderism. I mean, it's cult indoctrination at the start, but the enforcement arm of this cult is the child protective services And it's pretty horrific. And I'll read some stories and tell you about one of the callers that we had that herself got CPS called on her. They tried to take her children away for simply asking questions to the elementary school about what her son was being taught. And this is all. The globalists are hoping you don't take action. Take action now, infowarsstorecom. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the Alex Jones show. I'm Harrison Smith sitting in for Alex, who is on the road right now. We'll be hearing a report from Alex in the next segment about Joe Rogan and Leah Thomas. I guess that's just our lot in life now is we're just going to have to talk about transgenderism all day, every day, until we sort things out and get back to some semblance of normalcy. We'll take on that burden. We'll keep talking about it. We have for years, and now apparently everybody else is waking up to what's really going on The full on cult indoctrination taking place in our public schools, using child protective services as the enforcement arm of this bizarre religious ideology. In that last segment, just as a quick little segue, quick little note, Paul Joseph Watson said that Elon Musk is based, and I'd have to agree overall. You know, compare Elon Musk to Bill Gates. Yeah, he's pretty based, But then at the same time he's trying to implant ships in your head. So you know, it goes back and forth. Again, we've gone so far as a society and as a civilization that we're just. anybody that offers us just the slightest bit of common sense we flock to because we can't help it, because they're the only options out there. It's such a rare thing these days And this, the transgender stuff, is just flouting reality in the most egregious way, And I covered this story really extensively on American Journal this morning, but it's called trans tyranny in public schools- Chronicle magazines by Pedro Gonzalez, And the story that it tells is horrific, harrowing even. It's essentially parents who found out. you know, their kid was just acting kind of strange, being distant, not telling them what was going on, Wanted to go see a therapist, and so they sent her to a therapist, not really sure what her issue was, And what they found out is that she had been secretly transitioned to a boy by her school, who were calling her a boy and letting her live as a boy without telling the parents. And so this family decided to homeschool the kid, which again is like it's such a burden homeschooling- Really we don't have the right to have free schooling as our birthright as citizens of this country. We have to forego that. But the expenses in bandwidth alone are millions of dollars a quarter, hundreds and hundreds of thousands of dollars a month. So the biggest sale in M4Wars history is going right now- the mega-emergency blowout sale up to 75% off, getting credible products and keeping M4Wars as strong as ever, Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones Live from the M4Warscom studios. it's Alex Jones: Bad news travels like wildfire. Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen, to the Alex Jones show. We're going to go back to the live transmission here in a moment- all the latest breaking news and information, But first I wanted to salute my old friend Joe Rogan for standing up against the transhumanist mafia that is using the whole transgender movement as its pretext to destroy the two genders and set up their scientific dictatorship. And I always preface this with no hatred towards adults who have chosen to change their bodies or do something. They have free will and that is their body to do with as they wish. But we shouldn't have to pay for it and we shouldn't have our children targeted with it. All right, If you want to have your genitals removed, that is your business. Could be that Could be, Maybe just becoming her true self. I can't think of any other factor. it could be, I'm just going. passion for swimming, Maybe, You're probably right, But that might be the woke straw that breaks the society's camel back. You're starting to see a lot of those now. Women are so frustrated because if your parents, if your daughter is competing and they're competing against a trans woman. it's not fair, It's just not fair, No matter what anybody says. There's this nonsense idea of like: well, there's outliers, There's outliers, and then there's biological males. Right, That's beyond outliers. There's always exceptions. Where people have the most pushback is in sports, Athletic competition. That's where the real pushback is, Where people are like, hey, fuck, Right, This is not fair. This is clearly not fair. There's a reason why we have a distinction between men and women's sports And it's ironic because the people on that side usually always champion equality and nobody having an advantage. And you know, the people who are maybe disenfranchised or less capable should have an equal opportunity, And by throwing someone like Leah Thomas in there, you're kind of: that's the opposite of that. I think it's also probably terrible for the whole trans movement because it makes people more cynical about what the positive aspects of it are And it makes people more, you know, less- likely to accept it because they think of now, they think of trans people and trans rights and they connect it to this athletic thing. It's a great point. Yeah, that's it. Yeah, It's probably making people more just, trustful or more upset or less accepting. Why is telling the truth now an assault on- quote- trans people? It's not. The assault is on women's sports. The assault is an attempted corporate takeover of the biological mechanisms of humans. That's their stated goal. and there is Ebola and there is also regular flu. Why not protect people against that too with this new surveillance system? So the tendency would be to prolong it indefinitely. Also, it's the moment when surveillance goes really under the skin. Governments are now not just interested in where we go and who we meet, but even in what's happening inside our bodies. You see, this is a declaration of war against humanity, and the Tabistock Institute and all the big tech companies that are pushing transgenderism admit that once you accept a man being a woman and a woman being a man, you'll accept babies being grown in pods. You'll accept human animal hybrids. You'll accept humanoid clones that aren't really human but don't have rights, but are indistinguishable from humans. This is the future. This is how, in the name of civil rights, the global Sabrina system that takes all of our rights away and turns us into a big corporate commodity. My guess, when they started with HPV- because my daughter was 13 at the time when they started with that- my whole reaction to that, my whole gut feeling behind that, was absolutely no, absolutely no. Now, all of those girls are 25,, 26,, 27 years old, having a difficult time getting pregnant. if they're trying right now- And some of them not even trying right now- putting their families off thanks to our next one: feminism, right, And, of course, to be a feminist, you've got to worry about your career, You've got to have all these other things going and families on the back burner, And that is if you can find a good daycare to take care of your child, because heaven forbid you ever cook your family a meal or stay home with your kids and teach them yourself. And so feminism was also brought in to depopulate, because of course, they don't want fertility, They don't want babies, They're not about babies, And so we have a lot of things like this. You also have corrupt the family. You also have let's have everybody in America think they are gay, lesbian, transgender- Thank you, Disney. Or basically bringing in this narrative that, look, you just need to concentrate on what sex you are of the 5,000 different genders. That's what you need to be spending your time doing. And let's screw up your body with more drugs and more hormones and more things, so that it'll be impossible for you to ever procreate, even if you wanted to. And of course, it's the entire. save the save the entire country with this kind of nonsense right And save the entire country, because now we're going to and make people think that this is the largest population on earth of transgender and gay right And lesbian. I don't care if you're trans, gay or lesbian. I really don't. I absolutely don't. live your life, live your dream, whatever, But to make people think that you should be experimenting with this, that this is something that you might be, is really the danger to our youth And it will be a danger to our population coming up. And of course, people take their children to this as part of the religious services of corrupting and destroying their minds. This is what the country's turned into. But remember, Gillette and others run ads at the Super Bowl. what, three years running where if a guy sees a girl at the mall and says, hey, how are you doing, Can we buy you a coffee? A guy steps in and goes, whoa, that's rape. Talking to a woman's rape Now shaking your penis in a five-year-old's face, that's liberal. Men, don't talk to women, That's evil. But pedophiles- your children need to be handed over to them immediately. We've got a big broadcast line up today. I'm Alex Jones. Cujo in FEMA, Region 5, thanks for calling. Go ahead, Hey, Mr Jones. first Elon Musk joke comment: what do you call a stolen Tesla? What An Edison? And Elon Musk kind of reminds me of Edison. I'm not a big fan of him because of all his weird stuff, But I think he's a convert now because of what happened with his son being turned transgender against him, And also he was dating and married to and had a kid with Grimes And Grimes. then afterward Elon Musk was cut by Eli Manning or Chelsea Manning because they were dating. So I think he's a convert now And I think there's going to be many other converts like him. You know, that's right. His brother almost got killed by the shot. So let's go ahead and play two videos that Drew Hernandez has up on his Twitter. And this is the stuff that's going on: with Pride Month, Pride Year, Pride World, They've added the LGBTQP for pedophilia and now the S for Satanism. And I was watching of all things flipping through the channels. I was up early this morning. CNN: They say CNN's changing, Oh yeah. And they were just endorsing: well, of course, here's the great trans woman that's now a man and she loves Satan. And she's like: well, of course. we said: you know, Satan's going to kill the homophobes, What's wrong with that? And CNN's like: well, yeah, that makes a lot of sense. And then I was this morning getting a cup of coffee real quick before I went live on TV, on the internet here and I flipped through the channels and saw the same woman that thinks she's a dude on another channel saying the same thing. The woman's like: get out of my way. Men suck, because that's heterosexual. that creates families, that creates children. But if you're a convicted pedophile that wants to shake your pecker in a kid's face, well, you're God. And, by the way, folks, we've got the video that our TV station's taking us off the air and we show. it shot four years ago in Austin, where it shows men with glitter on their penises and children sitting on their laps, No underwear. I mean, again, we're trying to pass laws. They can have their drag queen shows all day. Nobody's banning those. There's children at them in sexually explicit events. Anal sex with another man- The sex acts, But not only about that. The song is about switching a straight man into a homosexual by committing gay sex on him right in front of infants, right in front of children, Just minutes after the mayor comes out and praises her score from the unelected individuals for being a good citizen of the New World Order. So my question is- and I think the answer to my question is: what does that mean? What does a good score mean to these people? It's degeneracy like this, All right. Well, a good score means setting your son up to have his penis cut off or your daughter to have her breast cut off. We know what it means: It's a satanic elko. Let's come back in with the demon rapper as the intro music. straight ahead with Drew Hernandez on Alex Jones. Infowarscom: Stay with us. and if you look, these are all a bunch of lost losers, except for their children, who are captives, being brought and literally put into this whole predator lifestyle, because that's all they can get to recruit. They don't have children. So it's a well known fact that a large portion of the children CPS from good families for almost no reason in liberal jurisdictions are given to homosexual families. So they hunt us And they take our children because they're the enlightened ones they deserve to do it, Just like in Germany for decades they took children from Christians and gave them to convicted pedophiles. So that's what this is. You know, Jordan Peterson comes out and says that gays are being scapegoated and set up by the transgender pedo cult and that they should speak out. Well, there are gays against groomers and there are groups doing that, and that's good, But the point is is that this is all a corporate agenda, and the majority of people that are involved in this know that they'll be supported by the power structure and get a good ESG if they do this. I just want to ask what comes after acceptance of this. Remember, it's not just raping children now, it's cutting their genitals off. So Drew Hernandez joins us to talk more about this, But here's the Jordan Peterson club. Oh, a man could get pregnant. A woman that identifies as a man can get pregnant. So a man could get pregnant. This is all the perversion of God's blessing design handed over to humanity. That's why you're seeing this dismantle, disgusting, perverse attack on all of these blessed things that God has given. Well, exactly, Imagine if the government was cutting whales, penises off. You'd say it was horrible, But if it's humans they're cutting off it's loving, It's genocide. All I want is your word of mouth and to tell people to tune in to the show and to share the clips. And you're doing it. It's having a bigger effect than ever And please keep us on air while still getting great products. Support the InfoWars, Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones. Think of the horror of all over the United States convicted pedophiles carrying out drag queen veto time with footage we can't even show you on our TV affiliates that will turn us off. But children are subjected to this. the horrible surgeries by the tens of thousands of the big hospitals gearing up to sterilize and castrate millions of children. the cutting of the forearms and thighs off to build giant artificial penises. They don't just cut off a little flesh to create a little psychotic fake penis, but big, giant, foot-long things that rot and fall off to make it more hellish, more evil, more insane. huge fake vaginas that literally always become infected and are just nightmare scenarios for these children. That's why most of them commit suicide. This is hell-raiser, pit of hell. at least Jeffrey Dahmer paralyzed and then killed his victims. At least Charlie Manson, when he killed Sharon Tate and cut the baby out, had the decency to strangle her with her intestines. I mean, these people make Charlie Manson look like a choir boy. But it's all like: oh, we're going to cut your forearms off and your thighs out And then the new hell-raiser has a transgender pinhead that rips people's thighs and arms out and creates fake penises. I mean, they're just telling you we are demons, We're going to rip the flesh off you, We're going to build artificial penises, We're going to create maggot. I mean, folks, it's so insane I can't even believe it's happening. But it's all out in the open, all being done to our children. totally satanic, Drew Hernandez. they're just getting started. They have their beliefs, they have their doctrines, they have their do's and their don'ts, And I've been arguing for the past few years that this woke cult. they claim that Jesus is oppressive. They claim that Christianity is oppressive. They claim that a world that we live in, where there's law and order and a set of rules that's meant to keep us safe and restrain us from committing. We're going to free you. We're going to cut your uterus and breast off and we're going to chop your thighs off and create a giant, stinking, rotting fake penis that falls off. I mean again. I told this story last week. I stepped in a telephone pole that they moved in the middle of the desert. when I came back to the road by the lodge in a three-foot hole blew. blah, blah, blah. it'll totally fail, but you waited too long. They're telling me to make a leg work. they probably can't do and I need this leg. okay, I waited too long. But literally a fake penis. folks, I've seen the surgical videos. it makes you want to throw up. They cut giant blobs of flesh out of the thighs, they cut the forearms off to the bones and these women walk around with huge, gouged-out arms- most of them before were into self-harm- and then they create these big, giant fake penises with a plastic tube going into your bladder and then you have this big, rotting, stinking thing that doesn't even work and has nothing but pain. I mean, that is hell-raiser, and I made the joke a month ago. it's hell-raiser. and the crew goes: you didn't know? there's a hell-raiser where it's a transgender that cuts women up and cuts men's penises off. In the movie it does the surgeries and rips the flesh off the thighs and forearms. It's literally hell-raiser. Sorry, go ahead, Alex, you're right, it's Satan, it's Lucifer. I mean, if you really think about it, it's a pathetic excuse. You know what I mean? Oh, it's so liberal. we're going to cut your forearms off and give you a big, rotting penis. that doesn't work. I can barely get doctors to line me up to fix this because I waited too long, because they don't want to do it unless it's going to work. And then they'll literally that they got doctors that will do this. I mean, what the hell? I can barely get doctors to fix my leg and I haven't done it yet because they're telling the truth that it may not work. What about this? No, get in the back of the line, Alex. get in the back of the line. You're white, you're not a transsexual. get in the back of the line so the little kids can get in the front of the line so we can chop their penises up. You can't get your leg fixed, Alex. You can't get that leg fixed. Maybe if you were to go in and say, let's chop up my penis and maybe we'll fix your leg. But I want to explain. these are separate doctors. I'm not even complaining. they're being honest that it may not work, so they don't want to do it. Does that make sense? Absolutely, This is what I was saying. These people want to be God, so they play God right, But it's a pathetic excuse. It's guaranteed it's not a real penis. It's guaranteed it doesn't have any feeling but pain. It's guaranteed it's on a real vagina, on men that have their penises cut off, but a big, gaping, rotting hole. In most cases people commit suicide because of it, because you literally now have a big, bleeding fake hole in you or a big, fake, giant penis, because the psycho doctors want to cut more off the thighs and arms. I've seen the videos, Every one of the videos I've seen is like a foot-long giant, rotting thing. I mean, just imagine again: 80% chance they can fix my leg, okay, but they want me to sign a thing that it may not work. Imagine they're building something they know doesn't work. It's like the South Park episode 10 years ago where the guy wants to be a dolphin and they give him this big fake dolphin thing and he's in total pain and can barely walk. That's what we're talking about is fraud. You're not a dolphin, It's not a penis, It's not a vagina. It doesn't work. You are very transphobic, Alex Jones. I can't believe. you just said that. But no, but they make money too, Alex. They make money. These doctors know what's up. Not only they're like pedophiles wanting to touch little kids' genitals, they get a high out of it. They get to see a little girl's vagina. They get to see a little boy's penis without parental consent now, But at the same time, these people are making money. They're making tens of thousands of dollars And they know how much money- We have real sicknesses like Hellraiser. They're telling you they get to cut it up. Yes, they get to cut it up. They get to see it, They get to play with it. It's just so sick and twisted. This is not healthcare. Isn't it sick how they call it healthcare? It's not healthcare. We've got to get these kids care. We've got to cut their penis off and then give them a big rotting hole. And I'm sorry to talk like this. folks, If you watch the surgeries- we've shown 3D graphics of it- that's horrible enough. Whether it's brain surgery, heart surgery, any surgery you want, you can find it online. I have made myself watch three of the artificial penis surgeries and several of the fake vagina surgeries and it looks like a fricking slaughterhouse. And the people say later: it's painful, it bleeds for decades and help me, I want a camping trip. I got maggots And they're just like. that's your problem. It's just people aren't nice to you because you're trans, that people aren't praising you enough and the beauty of the big giant rotting hole we put in you. If someone for real has gender dysphoria, you know, I think that's a pretty serious thing. But I don't think the answer is to mutilate somebody's body and make it even worse. That's only going to make your mental illness flare up and go instantly out of control. because if you already don't feel like you're not in the right body when you go into a surgery like this and you get your body broken, open and mutilated and then a couple months down the line your little neopenis burrito looks like Dan Aykroyd from the Coneheads- remember That's what those little neopenises look like. right, It falls off and it's sitting there smiling at you, all green. that doesn't help your mental illness. Whose mental illness is that supposed to help? It's a lie, It's all a lie And, by the way, they admit almost all of the fake penises fall off within one year. So, again, doctors don't want to do my surgery because there's a 20% chance it'll fail, because I waited too long, my fault. They're honest and say, well, you got to sign paperwork because it may fail, But they've got doctors that will literally build them a fake vagina. that doesn't work, that isn't real. I mean, again, folks, they can't make hearts that work right artificially, because it doesn't work. They're literally. I mean it'd be one thing if they said, okay, we can give you a penis, and robots did it, it grew on it, it worked. I'd be like, well, okay, you want to do that, You're 18, get a real penis, But it's not that, ladies, It's a hell-raiser, rotting penis. I mean, That's exactly. You know, Alex. it's like the abortion issue, right? People need to see this stuff And I encourage: go, look at an adult so-called trans surgery, okay, So you can see for yourself. Sorry, we didn't get to everybody. Drew, I know you've got to do your own show here. Tell us what else you think we can do to stop this out-of-the-open giant, corporate-funded pedo Hellraiser invasion. So I want to repeat this. I was here three weeks before I went on vacation and I said it's like Hellraiser, where they rip off the forearms and the legs with pinheads. I saw that, you know back in high school, those movies that I thought were really particularly hellish, how it kind of really works from my own research of these devil worshippers, these black Sabbaths, And I said this is like a Hellraiser thing where the kids cut their genitals off and the crew goes- well, you didn't see the latest Hellraiser's- a transgender and cuts men's penises off and turns them into women. You didn't see that. So literally what I was thinking it was. they are telling us it's that. So the hell of this. How do we counter this? By praying to God, By shaking God's face, By repenting, But then offensively. how do we challenge this? Well, I would say nationwide states, several different states within the union that actually care about children, need to continue to take the action to ban all this stuff. It needs to be illegal Sanctuary cities. Sanctuary cities for breasts, penises, testicles of children- Yep, I mean, that's what California wants to be, That's what New York wants to be, coast to coast. But we need to protect children legislatively right now, because if we don't, these pedophiles are only going to continue to rise. And once you give the pedophiles gain, to give them the ability to gain ground, that's when they start to call for your children. They'll start calling CPS on you, where you will be the one, as a parent, if you're not on board with this stuff, the child abuser and they them won't Right. That's how this stuff works. Children that are at these events, even pride events, These pride events are not family-friendly. They market all of them, all ages. They market all of them family-friendly. Wait, wait, wait, Because they just pulled it up. I didn't know. the actual plot is that Hellraiser pinhead kidnaps people and turns them transgender. So that's officially the plot. That's, the hero now is forcibly cutting your genitals off. So for you, it's good news. Texas Governor Greg Abbott signs a bill banning medical transitioning of children. Waging war on corruption? it's Alex Jones, All right, I am completely overwhelmed in a crazy way. I mean, the news is all just so over the top, so insane. The global awakening is so massive and so positive, but the new world order is just doubling and tripling down. There's no way to even properly cover a tenth of this, but I'm going to do my best today. Then we have Josh Alexander, who is a high school student arrested in Canada because he did not worship transgenderism and take part in the school. I mean, this is the global cult, the total control that you need to accept that men are women and that men can be in women's bathrooms, and things that you need to do anything. He's joining us. great reporter Emerald Robinson is going to be joining us to cover the waterfront as well, and so much more. So again, thank you so much for joining us on this live Friday, February 10th 2023. transmission. FBI to retract Catholic infiltration memo spying on them. the FBI slander a radical traditionalist Catholics with their headline there. FBI retracts leaked document orchestration investigation of Catholics as the main terror threat. FBI targeting devout Catholics at the whistleblower. Kyle Saffron reports on Leak Bureau document warning agents of danger and radical traditionalist Catholic ideology continuing here. Catholic high school student arrested after suspension for opposing transgender ideology. he'll be joining us and the war on anybody traditionalist, particularly Christian traditionalist, whether evangelical, Baptist, Catholic. they are coming after you because they're Satanist folks brought to you by Pfizer FBI using discredited SPLC to plant paint Catholics as extremists. we've got all that. it just goes on and on from there and we've got more attempts to arrest people in the US that don't want their children to be brainwashed in the transgender cult. we're gonna be laying all of that out. I see these deceptive headlines everywhere that oh, Tennessee and Texas passed laws restricting drag shows. no men can dress up in dresses and men can go get naked, dressed up like women at bars or wherever they want. you just can't do it with two year olds and then shake your penis in their face. that's what you can't do. that's illegal. and again, how offended would you be if you went to a topless bar to have a drink after work? you're an adult, it's what you want to do. Mr Chairman, I'd like to spend five hours with these ladies and gentlemen doing depositions- surely yet to come- But for right now, I'll yield the balance of my time to my colleague, Mr George. America's not going to be killed so easily. So the globalists are panicking, trying to start World War III. I'm getting chills right now. I've got dozens more of these clips. We've got a guest come up with 30 minutes, arrested in Canada for not submitting to transgender brainwashing in his high school And that ties into all this. Then we'll continue on with these clips and news and Emerald Robinson and more today. But listen, you want somebody to fight. I'm ready to fight. I was born to fight. Minors, Really, You know? Elon Musk took over Twitter and he banned 44,000 accounts that were promoting child porn. You permanently banned my Twitter account, but you allowed child porn all over Twitter. Yep, it's called. Twitter has become a platform, All right. Josh Alexander, arrested in Canada for not worshiping transgenderism. straight ahead, The cavalry has arrived. ultimate bone broth is the strongest, highest quality chicken based bone broth they're going to find, with all of the effects for your joints, your bones, your muscles, your heart, but, more importantly, your immune system. Everybody knows about grandma and chicken broth. Well, this is concentrated chicken broth- the strongest out there- with chocolate, mushroom and a whole bunch of other ingredients like turmeric. just go to M4sorecom, read the facts there and then order some and you can't lose. It's nutritive, it empowers your body, it's great for your immune system, bones and joints and it funds the M4. So ultimate bone broth Now back at stock at M4sorecom for 25% off. From the front lines of the information war, it's Alex Jones. Well, he joins us to lay out what really happened. Gosh Alexander, a 60-year-old Catholic high school student from Canada who was arrested on February 6th that were being suspended for protesting his transgender people's use A bathroom, has been saying there are only two genders and now he's appealing to Ontario's Human Rights Tribunal. Here's a clip of folks who have also been arrested responding to it, then the video of him being arrested. here it is. You know, hit pause here, then we'll play the Toronto Sunpiece and then go to our guest, the victim of this. He got the LGBT cult out there wanting access to the children, the bathrooms, the girl showers, men having access to that. you should be able to call them whatever you want. It's free speech. But they've got to pass laws saying you don't bring little kids to naked sex shows or kids are allowed if somebody wants to be misgendered or is misgendered. I mean this is such an assault. Joss Allen Jender joins us, 16-year-old Catholic high school student from Canada who was arrested Monday, February 6th and reportedly twice. he can confirm that after being suspended for protesting his transgender people's use of bathrooms and saying there's only two genders, The high school junior tweeted that Ontario police arrested him and charged him after he attempted to attend a class in violation of exclusion order. following his suspension earlier the school year, Josh, a born-again Christian, was hit with a suspension for allegedly organizing protests at a school against biological males and girls' bathrooms and arguing in class that God created two unchangeable genders. Sir, we salute you, we support you, we thank you. you are the Rosa Parks of the 21st century. I'm gonna try to shut up, give you the floor to describe what happened, what you're witnessing and where this is all going. They truly believe that I am hateful and a threat to the majority of society. I suppose Because a multinational corporate funded drag queen time wants to sexualize three-year-olds. you're bad for not liking them. Yeah, and the same with the gender dysphoria in the schools and all that. I've spoken out against that and I've voiced my opinion on it multiple times. My issue is not with the individual transgender student. I have sympathy for them and I think they've been wronged by society. they've been wronged by their parents and they've been wronged by the education system. They're confused- Yeah, they've been inducted into cult. they're victims- Yeah, they're victims as well. there's great youth like that out there, but everything you see happening in different parts of the world is targeted here. it's the same globalist cult and they want to end the family, they want to destabilize civilization. they want to scramble everything. but how does a 16 year old or a 10 year old make a decision? they're a girl, they're a boy, they're really a boy or girl. how do they make a decision to have their breasts cut off or their penis cut off or their ovaries taken out? this is to sterilization made cool. well, they can't. they can't join the military, they can't buy alcohol, they can't do any of that, they can't gamble, they can't do any of these things, these vices adults can do, but the government can form a relationship with them and psychologists and convince them, outside of parental control, to have their body parts cut off. so this video is on infowarstorecom. hope everybody shares it. watch activists confronts Tennessee Democrat at hearing on sexual mutilation of children. conservative activist Matt Walsh, who's made a great film, does great work, spoke at a Tennessee legislative hearing objecting to children being provided transgender medications and medical procedures, some as young as seven, and he just made a great point. here it is. Thank you, Mr Walsh. I found it interesting. one of our people testified today that they had their gender firming surgery at 16, and I know you, in former comments, mentioned this on your blog. This is going on. They're following a script. Here's Will Johnson in Austin, Texas, last night. Thank you, Jonathan. Well, I have been directly involved in this battle professionally for almost a year. One black transgender woman fatally shot today. where black as a father in her apartment- 27 a black transgender woman was fatally shot. and Prince George County, where the god of 21 black transgender woman was fatally shot in Cleveland. Malaysia Booker 23. a black trans woman fatally shot in Dallas, Michelle Tamika. So imagine a 300-pound man wearing a red wig wants to charge in an elementary school that's having to have a demonstration by parents saying: do not sexualize our children, not let men in dresses have contact with them- many of them convicted child molesters- and the police drag this man off and he charges back in repeatedly until he gets arrested and then begins squealing this we've got to get near your children or black trans men are going to be killed. help us, give us access to your children. and we're all dead. and there's all these videos of them coming to the city councils and saying: we're here to groom your children. oh, it's beautiful. how do they do that? Well, they just dress them up like clowns so their identities are protected, and then call the clown. call the clown a woman. These are men in disguise as doing this and they've launched a full out assault and they're following a script. You'll see the same report in Australia that you see it in the United States or England or Germany on the same day, and they're all networking and operating in unison and it's all funded by the big universities, funded by the big art displays, funded by taxpayers. They're taken into schools- remember in Denver- and the elementary, and the parents aren't told that a drag queen, a transvestite, a man is coming to speak with their children on career day until second, third, fourth, fifth graders, that they should grow up and work in adult entertainment, and then the children sit on their laps, unannounced appearance, and then the man dresses a woman, sits on a table and then moves across the table and spreads their legs to the children and we're putting together a compilation, since this broke this morning, of them doing these exact moves. The next move is to ride them horsey. ride them horsey. and it's the exact same move. They sit on the table, they spread their legs like it's a woman inviting a man to come in and have sex with them, and it's a ritual. they have to bathe you in corruption. so the new thing is sex with animals, sex with snakes, sex with rodents, torturing animals- and sex with bugs, centipedes, spiders, spiders, and so there's a giant new massive rollout hitting every channel. just, it's everywhere. today, Al Jazeera says not wanting to eat insects is racist. Texas Art Museum encourages children to eat bugs. Cheshire Home Invasion Killer tells podcasts he's transgendered. he's getting his transgender in prison. it's all cute, it's all funny. hey, you get those houses easier sometimes. you know the big bad wolf. what's the big bad wolf do? and if you crouch down into this on a business here, so your bum sticking out, if you're taking this all in and then you just move your bum up and down like that and that's twerking. a lot of the core values of being a drag queen- love, acceptance, joy, laughter, self-expression- are values that we want to instill in our kids. so i think it's really important that we bring this program and the joy of just spreading love. all these kids commit suicide at record rates. it's our fault, not the parents, not the sick ones and everywhere else it's called pedophilia. but when it's done institutionally and they can get away with people dressed up like demon clowns with your children, pull up tranny time in the new york schools. this is put out in new york times like it's wonderful and it's the biggest scary looking group of weirdo potbellied men. looks like a bunch of denise hashtards running around with you clown makeup on, just hopping around rubbing their giant bellies in front of children, and you're like what alternate universe is this? what planet did i wake up in? all right, now let's play this short clip of the little boy that just got a reprieve by the governor to don't have his testicles chopped off: james younger, here he is. but the governor got involved and that judge ran for the hills to see. they're like, hey, this one will get away, but if you make too much of attention to make this boy a martyr, we're not gonna get to millions. let him go, we're gonna get all those and we'll get him later, don't worry. and they know the boys are gonna rebel later when their testicles are chopped off and so they drug them up real good, make sure they commit suicide by about 18. and the mission's completed. and it's done so delicately, it's so carefully, my pretty, because all of this must be done very in PR voice, very delicately, because you don't want your patient to wake up on the operating table while we take their soul and everything they ever were and ever would be with us forever. because chopping their penises and testicles off is just a way to freak them out and screw them up so we can put them under psychiatric care and slowly depress them and use them as a slave until they finally die beautifully and the arms of satan forever. oh, it's so, labor. you see, i show you their real soul, just the surface. it's much worse beneath there. i really don't want to tune into it to you. they're just getting us ready for it and ganging up on us and taking our free speech. i have stacks of news where they're shutting down people's free speech. will johnson went down and to an elementary school yesterday. in fact, see if i meant to call will johnson last night. this morning i was watching firepower last night with he and uh tom papper and i just didn't get around to it. see if you can get johnson in here, um to co-host with myself and uh constitutional lawyer, famous lawyer norm pass can be a studio fourth hour, see, because we're already going to be talking about all these serial killers and people who now call themselves transgender. maybe get him on the last 30 minutes with uh paddus here with us. he can do that. but then there's all this other news. i mean there's just stacks of incredible stuff. i love how they say what they are, so we call them that. you're a man in war paint dressed up like a woman showing your genitals. little girls, they used to have a name for that. that happened in the park. he'd served 10 years in prison, but now, oh, it's art. look at this guy: chess jar, home invasion killer tells podcast host he's transgender in prison now. i guess he'll get his weenie and stuff cut off- the taxpayer expense- other sick ritual. but let's go to your phone calls right now. let's go to jacob and then we'll go to other callers: jacob, jacob in south carolina, thanks for holding her on the air. hi, alex and hyunee. uh, i want to say god bless guys for everything you've done on your show and and what you're doing for america. well, god bless you, brother, you've been following you since 2000. hey, do me a favor. if you've got your phone away from your face or something muffling it, can you talk right into your phone? yeah, can you hear me better here? yes, i can go ahead, okay, um, and anyway, i've just been a long time follower and you thought you touched on a topic this morning. um, with this transgender in the library. um, with you. weirdo, what it is is a pedophile invasion with organized increments as they sexualize more and more. the children now ride them, the men now show their naked genitals, the children. this is organized crime. yeah, you know, i've seen that video that you're showing when you're talking about it and it's just heartbreaking and just very upsetting and frustrating and, um, you know, but i mean, it looks like a meth head, crazy person on the side of the road spreading their legs to a kid. but it's the media directing it and the organization is directing it because they're training us to accept hell on earth. yes, i have, and you know, the other thing is i have a deep red dog with her. what i say about this is they have one of those transgender library times, the one of the local public church, uh, our libraries here, and i emailed the church and i asked them if they were going to make a present, you know, at this event for, you know, just to stand up against it. and the email i got back was basically: no, we don't get involved with these types of things, that we just pray for it. that's right. we just hide. we just hide. and this would be a scenario where it doesn't really matter who. but let's say, elizabeth warren is the is the uh candidate and she gets like an andrew yang as a vp. so they go through those months of you know town halls and debating trump. um getting vetted by the media, so forth. and then they, uh, they hold a town hall. it's like a big left media um event where warren and yang are on stage with maybe a rachel matta or, uh, anderson cooper or boat, and they got the transgender basketball star in the front row and were maybe 20, 30 days out from voting day and all of a sudden a maga, hat wearing patsy, rushes the stage and maybe, maybe shoots it up, maybe blows it up, but literally takes out warren and yang and your media star rachel matta, uh, maybe the transgender basketball star too. and now we have a national crisis, but the left has no interest in delaying or postponing the election because they'll say that would make trump a dictator. and so in that last few days before voting day they have a new emergency meeting of the dnc and hillary is nominated, or, or, i think, michelle, oh yes, even, because this way she that way. there's no vetting, there's no time for her to face the scrutiny, no one questioning after the great loss. i, i bet money. uh. globalist attorney norm paddice here's to deal with us. it's a famous criminal lawyer, first woman lawyer, bunch of the stuff, and he's down here in austin visiting with us. i wanted to get him into this about the massive attack on free speech and more. we're also gonna have will johnson joining us with the incredible footage he got last night here in austin where a big fat man wearing a red wig basically tried to disrupt a group of small children and their parents and the police had to arrest him. he just keeps screaming: i'm transgendered, you know. basically i'm god. submit to me, give me access to your children. bleh. it's up on news wars dot com. we've got a huge sale running right now, but it's about the end. it's the iodine challenge: both types of iodine with selenium for 60 off together. from the front lines of the information war, it's alex jones. thank you, jonathan. um, well, i have been directly involved in this battle professionally for over a year. one black transgender woman fatally shot today. where black transgender woman was fatally shot in princestore county. where the god of 21 black transgender women with fatally shot in cleveland. so People, hey, Hey, What am I doing? that is going Black, trans black, trans black, Black, trans black, trans, black, trans, Black, trans, black, trans black, trans Black, trans black. SORRY event with a fat man with a red wig on Screaming at women and children and men who do not want this guy talking to their children at school. You see, if you try to creep around kids at the park, you get arrested, but not if you come to the school and demand equal rights And then read off a list of black men Who were transvestite prostitutes, shot and killed in places like Chicago by other black men, And then you blame a bunch of elementary students that you don't have access to, to quote: groom them. Get that, Rob, do compilation ready from earlier today. I'm gonna play that for norm pass. right now. You go to turn norms. I've probably seen him all over the news for years With big cases. He does be like F Lee Bailey- You name it, and he was here. He flew in to talk about some other things were up to in our ongoing battles with the deep state to stay on air. But this morning I said what do you want to come on about? And I figured to be all these attacks on the first amendment, the rest of you as well. Let's talk about Cheshire home invasion killer Who's a transgender, and the mother got killed, the two little girls. so I guess Let's do a document cam shot of this young lady here. What a man with a beard. So this is the type of stuff going on. We've got new video out Out of control: drag queen flashes crotch the kids at library story in Minnesota, And we also have photos that stations have complained about and listen stations. I guess it's a drinking game. You pick an offensive word and you say it and then the next guy has to say it louder and it goes louder and louder. The person who backs down in the end has to take a drink. so they were talking about a certain portion of the male anatomy, The third leg, as it were. when that word ran out of- they ran out of time with that word- They switched to the n-word. so they're walking through a park and somebody started the film when they were hollering penis Because they thought it was funny. when they switched to the n-word, that person suddenly became enraged and upset and they were saying: You know, nigger, louder and louder and louder. that person then sent the video to her mother, who called the NAACP. He created a storm and had the kids arrested for ridiculing people. No one was ridiculed. We're going to finish up these five or six calls- Eric, John X, Dallas, Jack and Brian- Before we end this transmission. But here's a little bit of a large man with a reddish-blonde wig Charging around in front of men, women and children trying to stop their free speech, Getting arrested in Austin last night. here it is: Black trans life matter. black trans life matter. Trans women's matter. black trans women's matter. Black trans women's matter. I think that got bigger than all three police combined. So Will Johnson's here to tell us exactly where this was and what happened. I mean, this is happening everywhere we're now that's coming in the schools, Not just the libraries, where these men come. we plug the clubs. And so that's what I'm saying. People tune in and they may think you know, Info Wars is kind of extreme. No, the world is extreme When I go to downtown Austin Texas and I've got people waving pedophile flags in my face, talking about how they want to mutilate children's genitalia, And they think they're the good guy. Folks, that is a pro-pedophile flag. They call it a minor attracted person flag is what it is. So you've got the tranny flag, you've got the gay flag, you've got the pedophile flag. They all have these new flags. they fly And it's all to create this new tribalism of sexual perversion that they then virtue signal and say: oh, this is for the kids. No, you're sexual perverts. Fine, You want to be a sexual pervert and do your little activity behind closed doors, or they don't even do it behind closed doors anymore. Personally, I'll never wear open toed shoes to a restaurant. I just I just don't like showing my feet when people are trying to eat meals. I just think that's a little uncouth. but okay, it's not the worst thing ever. This man shows up dressed as a woman and walks into a breakfast diner with his ass out. I'm not exaggerating: Literal bare ass at a diner, in public, just showing off the ass, And you're just supposed to say, Oh, that's a tranny, Oh, that's a drag queen. I'm not going to say anything like: Hey, why don't you get your bare ass off of the seat, please? I'm trying to eat breakfast. It's hard to believe that we're already into March 2022. And in the month of February we had a very popular sale that was going of our flagship product, X3. They're upset because I was at the pro pedophile rally. That's how I see it. You want to rally to talk about genital utilization of children? That's pedophilia to me. I don't know where you come from. Some folks from info wars have showed up here at the rally for transgender youth. You promoting transgender youth. you should realize that you're the bad guy here. There's been some pushing and scuffles. Yeah, every time I show up, they push and scuffle and try to fight me and stab me and spin on me. So they are state troopers telling people to calm down and create space. or do you think you'd say, huh, I have a feeling these people are going to abuse my children or touch my children inappropriately. They're not getting anywhere near my kids. You wouldn't hire a single one of these freaks to be anywhere near your kids. But see, that's why they want to be teachers and that's why they want to run daycare facilities, because they know nobody would willingly allow them access to children. Nobody would voluntarily give these freak shows access to their children. So they disguise themselves as teachers and drag queen story times and daycare providers and then they get those kids in the classroom and they teach them how to have anal sex and give blow jobs and wave the gay flag and turn them into tranny so that they can sexually be abused. Yeah, we know what you're on to. We know what you're doing, And thank God for Ken Paxton for standing up to it. Thank God for Governor Abbott for standing up to it. I mean, my God, if Governor Abbott can't do anything else but at least protect the kids from these demons, then good for him, Good for him. What do you think is going to happen if Beto O'Rourke gets into Texas? You're going to watch the whole school system go pro, tranny, No, All right. so look, I've got to move on from all of this, And so all I'm going to say is the full HD footage is going up to Band Out video. It'll be up probably by the end of the night, Oh my gosh. And then we're going to have a little bit of a highlight type of real thing to, probably by tomorrow. And then, if you want to see all of my footage- that was just a live stream on Getter- you can just go to my Getter account. And then they get on and they start stewing and they start steaming and having and hawing and don't say gay bill. And then you have all the Democrats in Congress doing videos where they say, Oh, I say gay, gay, gay, gay, gay, gay, all over a narrative that's fake. There is no, don't say gay bill. It's the same thing in Austin and in Texas. Governor Abbott, Ken Paxton, if you genitally mutilate a child or you give them life altering drugs before the age of consent, that's child abuse. And then they say we're going to protect trans children. No, you're the ones doing the harm. And now you have. I mean, what kind of a judge has happened now in Texas? A judge is stopping the investigation into parents that are sexually abusing their children. I mean, look, I feel disgusting even talking about this. A story just went on reduxcom guys and it's everywhere. Like I'm disgusting, I don't even want to talk about this stuff. I feel perverted that I even know this stuff. I want nowhere near this crap, but someone's got to report this, this deviancy that's going on. Folks, a cell underwear for trans kids, quote, unquote- where they give little boys this underwear and then they teach them how to tuck their penis so that they can pretend they're a girl. Do you see how this is pedophilia? They literally want to reach down your kid's pants. They sell- what did they call it- for little girls- the bitty packers or whatever. Remember what I'm talking about, Folks? they sell little cloth knit penises that they reach down into your little girl's pants and they put in their underwear so that they can pretend they have a bulge We're talking about. this is being marketed and designed for children: Bitty packer penises so that they can reach down your kid's pants. tuck underwear for little boys so they can reach down your kid's pants. Maybe I'm old fashioned, but when I was a little kid I like to ride bikes and climb trees and fences and go find creeks and play ball games and tag and hide and seek and playgrounds and maybe go over to your friend's house, play a video game or something. Now it's all about bitty packer penises for baby girls. little boys tuck underwear. I mean, they just want to touch kids genitals, man. So I need to stop yelling. I'm losing my voice, but it's like you understand that I shouldn't be a voice in the wilderness here. Do you know about trans sexuality? Here's my trans daughter. You want to play? Have you ever had tuck underwear here? Let me show you. Have you ever had a little bitty penis packer here? Let me put one into your pants. Little girl here, Go play with my trans kid. Yeah, you'll be seeing that in parks within five years and you'll be seeing pro pedophilia marches like you saw pro trans kid marches in Austin today in two years, If we don't stop these demented freaks now. and the fact that Ken Paxton is not exalted and celebrated and governor Abbott are not lifted up and supported when they say we don't want to sexually mutilate children is an embarrassment. Men can be in women's sports. The list goes on and on. They have to kill our rationality. They have to kill our common sense. They have to get us to basically accept the illogic of what they're doing, because globalism is so horrible and this transhumanist movement is so antithetical to what the people want and what's common sense that they have to again completely confuse us and turn us all around in different directions until we accept idiocy. And Tucker also went over a whole bunch of the mass shootings of trans people And he played the most chilling part And I played these clips. but the way Tucker laid them out was it took me an hour on Friday to lay out the same clips and the same agenda. basically, I laid out all the exact same points because it's the truth, Not like he's copying me or I'm copying him. We just see the same elephant in the room And in the piece he plays the White House press secretary, buzz of the clown lady saying our trans people are fighting back and they're fierce and we commend them right after the shooting. And they never condemned the shooting. And then a lot of other leftist commentators said: well, you know, that's what you get. And then all these different Democrat operatives- national state, the press secretary, the governor of Arizona- you know the same governor that stole the election from Gary Lake. She put out a picture of people with guns saying we're coming after you. And then they look at the statistics of trans people having the highest level of suicide murder, you name it. It's because they're unhappy. They're on a bunch of hormones. They already had mental problems before and a large portion of them. And then they just get deeper and deeper and deeper into the system's clutches. And it's all these big children's hospitals. Major institutions are just licking their lips about the billions they're going to make on these so-called surgeries. And I was watching clips last night of the doctors on TV from these big university and children's hospitals saying when a child transitions at age seven or eight or nine, before puberty, there is not enough tissue to create the vagina when we remove the penis. This guy had like a weird Klaus Schwab voice. They all seem to have some real reason. I'm not even asking Germans what's weird. He was here in America. It took me an hour and a half of air time. Well, it breaks. It's about 15 minutes. It took me an hour Friday to lay it out. I think we did a pretty good job, but Tucker in 16 minutes is absolute must-see and really documents it. And you notice how militant the trans people are and how they're attacking folks everywhere. That's because they've really been brainwashed that they're victims. And also in England statistics are out. They're similar here, But in England around half of the trans kids are autistic. It's about 40% here. Wow, What a world we live in today. I am going to again get into the weaponization of the judicial system, the criminal justice system under the Soros occupation of this country coming up. I'll tell you about some of the guests that are coming up. next segment Also, we are going to open the phones up as well, And we have some guests- They're going to be in studio in the third hour today that I'll be interviewing, along with Owen Schroer from here at the Revenge of the Cis Guys Inn. So that's just some of what's happening here today. Also, this whole transgender cult is finally waking the public up. It's very important to talk about who's behind that, where that's going and some of the new developments. I'm also going to be hitting that, But right now- I mentioned it earlier- let's get directly into it. China has its act together when it comes to tyranny. They're the model of the social credit score. they're gonna hit us with everything they got, But as long as we know they're the ones behind it while they gaslight us and say: screw your freedom. if we just hold the line and don't back down, it's gonna be them that lose. So the big Zero Hedge article, zerohedgecom- it's up on infowarscom, I suggest, because I could. maybe tomorrow I may do a whole hour on this. I mean, don't tempt me. I did an hour and a half on the transgender cult. probably was pretty powerful, Kind of old school Alex Jones, where I just come in with one topic and do that instead of trying to hit everything. This article should send chills up your spine because the commercial and the residential and the car loan market is in cardiac arrest. People are not paying their loans and that isn't an indicator, that's a guarantee. Like you're on TV, you're watching some footage out of Nigeria where somebody walks up and hits somebody in the neck with a machete and it cuts through half their neck and their head falls over. Give me deadly weaponry for no reason. This son of a bitch- and I'm not happy this blob got killed, but he's out there live-action role-playing on a power trip aiming guns at people. I don't know what he thinks is going to happen. Owen Troyer- Well, it's pretty obvious from anybody who's being honest that the man pointing the gun is the one in the wrong here, and it's ridiculous that we even have to have this debate, and that's what's so sad. But the problem is, Alex, we feel we do have to have this debate even though the debate is over. It's kind of like the transgenderism thing. We all know men can't be women. We all know men can't be pregnant. Now, here we are having to have that debate, in a way a distraction, but it's not a real distraction because it's like: no, no, no, we have to keep truth, truth, We have to keep reality, reality. But the problem is, Alex, the left is now learning that they're above the law. I mean, they're going to be having guns everywhere. And what I think is going to happen, Alex- in fact I have this in my stack today. I was going to cover this. I'll bring it up with you now and get your foresight on this- They just passed an assault weapon ban in the state of Washington. Joe Biden has said he wants to do an assault weapon ban. So really, what they want to do, I think, is they want to disarm the American people, but they want to arm their own people, And so they're going to have all these little groups, like Obama said, of citizen activist, police force groups, and they'll actually get guns, And so you'll have a team of clown-faced transgendered individuals walking around your neighborhood with guns, intimidating you, bullying you, and you won't be allowed to have one. You're the law-abiding citizen, And here's where the people are going to have to face this, Alex, That is exactly. It's a malice takeover. Stay there, Guys, get the clip. Obama talks about civilian military force. Don't use the word hangover in your pitch For young drinkers. Young drinkers, That was weird, Right? They're like. all right, hear me out on this, I'm just brainstorming. A baby bottle with the nipple on it filled with Bud Light, Boom, Bud Light baby bottle In the market. And we already have a beer for trans people. It's called White Claws, So there's already, Come on, We already have He likes White Claws. Straight people can drink White Claws. Yeah, Well, that's why we kept making fun of you. Well, Dick Masterson on Twitter had a good tweet about this too, where he did the Don Draper quote from Mad Men and he was like: the only thing that matters is new smokers. They got it pulled up. See, I told you I wasn't kidding. Look, it's asking for hundreds of dollars for this hat. But anyway, you go there. It is the corporate equity index. Human Rights Campaign Foundation's corporate equity index is the national benchmarking tool on corporate policies, practices and the benefits pertinent to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer employees. So there you go. So it's like: oh, big pharmaceutical company puts out a vaccine that kills tens of thousands of people and maims millions. That's all good, baby, That's all approved, That's all above board. But hey, if you're a company out there, you better do something gay now or you're not going to get an equity score, Oh yeah. but I could give out, but I don't have it. So I am in your hands, You are in my hands. We need funding in infowarstorecom And I thank you. Jason Burmans has got a full show. Take it over, Jason. Thank you, Alex Jones, And in the next hour we are going to show you how the transgender movement is really about transhumanism. We're going to talk about a specific individual called Martin Rothblatt that actually authored the book from transgender to transhumanism- a manifesto. This is the person who is the CEO of United Therapeutics into the human genome project, Has started their own religion, TerraSim, and, of course, is transgender themselves. The agenda is right in front of us, but first I want to take it back to what transhumanism really means to different classes of people. For instance, the predator class believes that they will utilize the biomedical technology to essentially have a fountain of youth where they live forever within these types of physical bodies that are then extended by the technology. Now, for you and I. it is about fooling us into believing we need to augment our bodies, stop having families and prepare to upload our consciousness into a false virtual reality, as we actually manufacture the AI doppelgangers that they will say have cyber consciousness and their own set of rights. So to begin to make that point, I want to play this video recently of Jared Kushner openly discussing how his generation may be the first generation that lives forever or the last generation that naturally dies. That is a huge part of the cost of affordable food. So go to preparedtodaycom and protect yourself and your family while you still can, Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones. We are back. It is the fourth hour of the Alex Jones Show. I am Jason Burmes and we are talking from transgender to transhumanism And, yes, we're going to show you the book, We're going to show you the manifesto, We're going to show you Rothblatt themselves. But first I want to take it back to where Alex was talking about this agenda of command and control, And I often show people Dennis Bushnell, who is the chief scientist at NASA. guys, it's not about going to the moon or Mars. I mean, they just had to cancel Artemis, where they had dummies and Snoopy on it, because of first- oh, lightning storms and now fuel leaks. We're very limited on what rocket technology can actually do other than weaponized space, by the way. Well, I'm going to let you see it for yourself. It is just a segment from the Transformers Conference from May 18, 2016.. And guess what? Mr Bezos, who's part of that transhumanist crew like Kushner that thinks that they're going to empower themselves and live forever, right? The Washington Post, along with Lockheed Martin and Samsung, put together this conference called Transformers. that starts with Martin Rothblatt, But we're going to show you somebody who's already transformed themselves with a device that can see, hear, feel colors. It's an extra sense, And he even talks about it in relation to what The underground transhumanist or transgender movement of the past, But the humans, don't have. So we are in a stage in history that we can actually design what species we want to be. I consider myself a trans species because I'm adding senses and organs that other species have, And you can add many, many more senses that other species have and organs that other species have, And we'll start seeing this in the 20s because it's now growing. It's happening underground. There's already many surgeons that are willing to do the surgery anonymously. in the same way that in the 50s and 60s, transgender operations were being done a bit underground, Now cyborg surgeries are being done a bit underground, But in the end, bioethical committees will also accept that cyborg surgeries should be allowed for everyone that wants to extend the perception of reality at least to the level of. So again, these bioethics committees are going to decide- And guess what? The World Health Organization, along with the United Nations, has now just magically decided that sex is not limited to male or female. This is the new thing, And remember, the World Health Organization took charge of what the narratives could be on large social media platforms, including YouTube and Google. In fact, you go to their own sites: Gender and Health. You go to their own propaganda, And now it is Health for Peace and Peace for Health, with a transgender mother Earth who has a mustache holding the Dove of Peace. Meanwhile, you see windmills, recycling symbols on there, because this is about command and control. When we come back, we're going to play more from the Transformers Conference. We're going to go to the author of From Transgender to Transhumanism- A Manifesto, And we're going to let that person speak for themselves. I am Jason Burma. You're really going to miss out if you don't get it. Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. it's Alex Jones. We are back. it is the Alex Jones show. I'm Jason Bermas, and it is time to go from transgender to transhuman. Now, it cannot be overstated how powerful this person is, and we'll look at some of the other works of literature that they put out there. This is a person who is heavily into eugenics. This is a person that has founded their own religion. It is the Terra Sem movement. This is a person that is at the height of what xenotransplantation is, And they'll later talk about social Darwinism, And essentially- I want to put this out there again- They're going to tell you that this technology is going to empower you. it's going to enslave you. Meanwhile, they intend to test the actual technology that could empower humanity that they intend to use for themselves. And when we get to Rothblatt being talked to, number one, they are the first person to be talked to at the Transformers conference Put on by the post and the good people at Lockheed Martin. Remember, Bezos is one of those people that believes he's going to empower himself with this technology. The first thing they mention is the law in North Carolina that was passed to keep transgender people in the correct bathrooms, And now how that is bigoted. Remember, this is a manifesto. this person has written about the freedom of form and has heavily invested in this movement to take us from transgender to transhuman, Because they want you to believe there is no biology and that the traditional family and any idea of a deity out there doesn't exist. It doesn't exist at all. So let's play this clip. It is also the recipient of this year's Billie Jean King Leadership Initiative Award, which is devoted to LBGT issues, and puts her in an interesting issue because she has a company, or part of the company is based in North Carolina, which, as you know, right now she might get arrested for going to the bathroom if the governor had anything to do about it, And later they'll go back to the bathroom issue. I did a full watch along with this entire presentation, for over an hour and 20 minutes of it, because I think it was almost a two hour broadcast, because it is so important. Take a look at this one. This is where you see some real charts. I mean, look at, look at the definitive information that they're putting out there to push trans genderism And the progressive thinking is under what the science we must all trust about psychology. You know, the same psychology Scientists that gave us SSRI- drugs that have been so helpful in society- being the science of the mind that these digital doppelgangers are in fact cyber conscious, Then they'll begin to acquire the sorts of rights and protections that we assign to even our pets, laboratory animals and, to quite a high extent, to primates like chimpanzees. Here we go. This is the incrementalization of this program, Small steps again, from transgender to trans human, And this person's written several other books, including what it unzipped genes. unzipped genes. Now look, folks, it's right here. So they're telling you that biomedical- this is from 97. the trans, the transgender to trans human- is 2011.. They're telling you that you're going to live in a virtual universe. There's going to be digital doppelgangers, They're going to have rights and she'll make the analogy that your aunt can die in a car accident, But they're not really gone, because their aunt is going to live through some other cybernetically created organism that's going to have that upload on it. It is not your consciousness, It is not your soul. You are special. Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order. It's Alex Jones. We are back. It is the final segment of the fourth hour of the Alex Jones show. I am Jason Burmese. We are talking from transgender to transhumanism And in this next segment, Rothblatt will discuss this uploading of a digital doppelganger and this immortality. Meanwhile, Calico Labs, which is run by Kurzweil, who Rothblatt mentions right, They're actually looking for the technology again, the fountain of youth stuff, where the digital doppelganger doesn't need to be uploaded. We just have to ignore that And we just have to trust this person who says it's the best thing since breakfast. when they're confronted on the eugenics issue as well, And I think very quickly we'll get to a point where we say that that cyber conscious individual has a soul. It's nearly soul. you see the very people on the news saying he won't stop attacking us. he won't quit, he's sending people to our houses. uh, he won't quit, stop, jones, jones, just stop, stop. and then they're on the news: jones just won't stop, he just won't stop. and they've got new levels to this. there was an article, the daily dot- i mean there's so many i can't keep track of it- and it's like now i beat up a transgender child. it's like the telephone game they just well. he's been banned on youtube and facebook, which isn't true, because he uh said that there's an islamic invasion of europe. this is an actual quote and he brutalized a trans child. and they also say: no one's censoring me, this is not an attack. don't run, we are your. friends from the democrats kept saying: we don't want illegals to be able to vote, we're not letting illegals vote, we we're not giving them driver's license so they can vote. and then now the democratic party officially says we want illegal aliens to be able to vote and they're legalizing it all over the country. and now you see, that's admitted. we were dead on. well, i told you, apple announced five months ago they're moving to to china officially becoming state run and letting the government run the i cloud that's roiders. google was set up by the nsa, the cia and darpa and was supposedly a utility of american internet to promote freedom worldwide. but america's been captured, so now it is a globalist tool and the president is getting informed and educated about this, and that's the main reason. they're on every channel in the country lying about me today saying i bully children and i do all this and i do all that and i beat up a transgender kid, and they don't show you where or when it's all lies. they've been green lighted with propaganda like you only see before they invade an innocent country. this is war drum level beating. that. that has now reached the level. it's for the children- and all these other headlines- that jones has gotten another strike on youtube and facebook for bullying a child. they reported i beat up a child, didn't say where didn't say when it was actually abc news video: some kid beating up an adult and the guy shoves him to the ground. everybody else showed it. they just take the video down and go: he bullied a child. but that didn't stop. now the new york times and others and the daily dot why they say that i, i bullied a transgender child. next it'll be i, i i murdered a child. and then there's no attribution, there's no link to where it was it's, and they call themselves the real news and they call us the fake news. but, as the president said, it's one giant hoax. so tom pappard, uh is, uh here with us. and it became a 50 billion dollar industry since then exactly. and, by the way, people are going back to am radio again because they have to and you can't take it down. i mean, that's one thing i used to say: you know this darn fcc and their regulations. if only we didn't have these regulations, like the internet, the free and and and wonderful internet and now i know, after a few years of being on the internet, the fcc in a way is a blessing, because if you follow their rules you can see it's just don't say cuss words- yeah, that's like so easy and i actually agree with that. yeah, and. and it's not like facebook where you can't say the t word or the f word or the this word or the that word, and there's always new words and and and and then i go okay, well, the transsexuals were shaking their butts in front of two year olds. i think that's sex, you know. i think that's abusive. oh my god, you just abuse a baby transsexual. the baby transsexual deserves to put money in the g-string and these words. and that's abusing children. i'm like my god. look at this local news. they have children with men on stripper polls giving him money. but if you have the audacity to tell the truth, you actually say, hey, now wait a minute, not even saying anything big, they're just saying: isn't this weird? 50 years ago wouldn't we have been putting some people in jail for this? and now to question that? you know you get turned off. well, they go further. they go: jones, beat up a trans child. we're not going to show you the link, but how does showing them doing that turn into: i bullied a trans child? well, and meanwhile we have- i mean visual evidence of them committing unspeakable acts, simulating pedophilia and simulating child rape. you know it's in some of the showtime show where the guy rapes a baby and they're like: oh, ha ha ha. oh, james guns a good guy, ha ha ha. your children belong to us, by the way, and you know you have mother, as in hell. i've been accused of working spielberg with hanks, with seth, like uh, and a lot of the rumors are just like benign and just part of like the whole telephone game experience. like someone said, i wrote thor. i did not write thor. i was in thor for a day and it was fun. and no, i don't. national news said i beat up a transsexual child. thousands of art won't say where. when i, i believe me, i've been experiencing, uh, i, i'm, yeah, i'm well aware. uh, i, i know the struggle, my friends, i know the struggle. tom, you got any points here, because i'm not judging isaac cappy, he's just i have to, like, try to research this, right. i don't remember the exact words. he confirmed that he's into children. i asked him if he was into rituals and sacrifices, which he said he wasn't, but i can neither confirm nor deny that. okay, um, sorry, we got a text coming up here. uh, his, his wife, claire, has been involved in human trafficking since years and years and years. her transgender brother was actually a teen prostitute and claire told me that once she picked up money at a hotel and bill clinton was there, okay, like, as for me having like photographs, i don't have that stuff. okay, but i need it to come out because this is the best you're going to get for a whistleblower from hollywood. okay, nobody wants to do it. everyone's scared. they want to protect their money, they want to protect everything. Okay, so if I don't let the evil, sick Department of Education run by the Carnegie Endowment and the CIA literally sterilized the children. then I'm bad. Here it is, Excuse me- because they support LGBTQ children and families. we have to speak out. We must stop the hate and violence, like we just saw in Colorado Springs, where a place of acceptance and celebration was targeted for violence and terror. We needed to challenge the hundreds of callous, cynical laws introduced in the states targeting transgender children, terrifying families and criminalizing doctors who give children the care they need. We have to protect these children so they know they're loved and we will stand up for them and say: I can seek for themselves. Racism, anti-semitism, homophobia, transphobia- they're all connected. But the antidote to hate is love. This law and the love it defends strike a blow against hate in all its forms, And that's why this law matters to every single American, no matter who you are or who you love. And that's what they say in these congressional hearings that go on and on and on saying you can't call people pedos- That's a mean term- just because they want to have access to your children And even if they don't want to have sex with them, they want to scroll them up and tell them there's something else and make them obsessed on becoming a boy when they're a girl or a girl when they're a boy, or vice versa. Absolutely evil. And we know what it is. It's the transhumanist agenda to get us ready for microchips and human animal clones and all this stuff being rolled out. And they take little children to the quote gay pride parades that are now nothing but giant pedophilic sexual baptisms of the children into a totally destructive lifestyle. And then all these leftist adopt children now or have children And you'll see, statistically in areas like Seattle and other areas a third of the children are transgender in a decade. Oh, you're all transgender now And the parents like it's an attention getter, Though, oh yes, our daughter at two knew she was a boy, or our son at three knew he was a girl. And now you, the head of Planned Parenthood, saying no in congressional testimony last month. children know when they're born and only the special high priest of transgenderism can come in and say this is really a girl or this is really a boy. And then they start that in the file that follows your child. So they're targeted, put in special classes, cut out from the rest of the kids and destroy it. I had a member of parliament on who's actually a liberal like a decade ago talking about in England. that is the most advanced in this evil, that in England over half the kids that they are sterilizing are autistic or mentally retarded. look it up. you know that they are set up with british intelligence. who first hatched the plan in the 60s? the taba stock institute, to sell sterilizing children as a cool thing by taking away parental consent and tricking the children to think it's fun to be sterilized, that you become a superhero, just like, oh, take the covid shot, you'll become a superhero. remember all those ads. so now they brag that just in the first year of a transgender operation on a girl, just getting them into the system in age seven, starting puberty blockers and the counseling, they make twenty thousand dollars because there's government funding, state and federal and corporate- and they estimate that by the time that person graduates high school and has either been chemically or medically, surgically, transitioned into a unit- they're not really a man now, they're not really a woman now, they're a unit that they will make- wait for it- over half a million dollars on that person. remember it's a fifty one thousand dollar bounty to incubate, intubate, not incubate, not put an egg in incubator to intubate somebody, and even more if they die. so these are bounties in the medical system, and most medical systems won't be part of it, but they're all going to be phased out because they can't compete with all the money that the big medical centers and systems get. whether you're in australia, or whether you're in france, or whether you're in canada, or whether you're in the us, or whether you're in austra, texas or new york city, it is the same global policies that are setting and directing this: the same brochures, the same language, a different name on the brochure, a different foundation, a different government agency, but it's all centralized and it wants to convince little girls to have their breasts cut off- angelo, lina, joe lee pushes it for the un- and to have little boys testicles and penises cut off. and then, when they complain later and say i didn't want this to happen, i'm 15 now and they cut it off when i was 11, i can never get it back. i'm suing. they say: sorry, we're passing indemnity and liability protection. you really are a girl. sorry, we cut your penis off and threw it in a trash bag. imagine 10 years ago if you'd hear the occasional story of a crazy psycho. they would kidnap a kid and cut their genitals off, or a crazy dad would, or mom would do it and they'd give them the death penalty. and we see all these cases around the world, from brazil to the united states, where particularly lesbian couples- and i'm not saying all lesbians are bad people, i'm saying that's the statistics- adopt little boys and then start torturing them to death before they cut their genitals off and slit their throats. and every time i talk about that on the media matters, article jones claims lesbians are doing this. you can go pull it all up, but hell you know why one of our reporters a few years ago quit working here. it's because they couldn't work here anymore and and be around this anymore. and it was because their sister- i'm not gonna say it's a man or woman, their sister's a nurse in houston. and over and over and over again- and, by the way, her sister was a liberal- over and over again i said i wouldn't say the sex came to them and lesbian couples would demand that they set up a surgery to cut their three, four, five and six year olds penises and testicles off. and look, i don't blame people not be able to handle this and fight this and and and deal with us and have to just leave the big city and go, move to a small town somewhere sounds great, but they're going to come get us in our small towns. they're never going to go away until we stand up to this. so i said i have 15 clips. i do. white supremacy must be defeated, as must all extremism. this is our mandate as adults for our children. our children are in a crisis today and the idea that we, the parents, are now the agents of white supremacy is unacceptable. all of these books that i have here today are the indoctrination that are being put into the minds of our children instead of the fundamentals that are critical: to make them educated, enlightened citizens that protect our democracy. that is our greatest mandate and it goes on the full video i am is on info wars dot com. but but the point is she's acting like they don't know because she's not evil and she has all the other books pushing pedophilia and transgenderism, sterilization. she goes over that, she goes, don't you know? this is happening. of course they know. they're the ones that brought in all the new curriculum to done everybody down as part of their plan and we're exposing that plan here today. they're all really great products. you should try and see which ones you like the best at infowarstorecom. info wars md, a new premium supplement line at discounted prices, infowarstorecom. all right, let's do this. let me finish up this segment with some of the congressional hearings about the violence, and we can't let people criticize sterilizing children or taking kids away from their parents. and you still live with your parents, but the state now controls the cult you're in and and puts you on the transgender cult and then starts you on puberty blockers that are so toxic and then finally starts cutting body parts off. i mean, it's just all peer pressure. they want to intimidate us to go along with it and just submit to it, but we're not going to. so let's go to some of these clips. uh, here is, uh, one of the key clips here. uh, this is anti-lgbt violence at the hearing. misuse of the term groomer on social media is leading to violence here. it is already receptive to that message, take it to heart, and it reinforces their prejudices in their minds. trans people either become victims to be saved from ourselves, or villains to be punished. one example of this in action is the misuse of the term groomer. anti-lgbtq activists have appropriated this terminology used by survivors of childhood sexual abuse and used it to slander lgbtq people and our allies as predatory, harmful toward children. in reality, trans people are significantly more likely to be the victims of sexuality use than perpetrators of it. and now this misuse terminology has become part of the political discourse around trans people and is invoked as a reason to further restrict our rights in the name of protecting children. oh yeah, that's enough. i can't look at it anymore. the point is: is that give us access to your children, let them brainwash them, or you're causing violence? absolutely insane. um, pause, started over, started over to start. listen, this is all about these systems coming into the schools with literature and they're high priests that dress like clowns, usually big fat, giant men saying fat man dressed like a clown as a woman. so these, these, these, these killer clowns come in and they want access to your children and they're doing horrible things. and i've got a whole stack of news here with california schools putting on sex parties with kids at the schools. i mean it's just insane. we all see what's going on, we all know what's going on and they're saying, oh, you're being violent to trans people because you don't want them grooming kids. no, we call groomers people that say we're gonna groom your children, we're gonna recruit your children, we are grooming the next generation. you know where people got the term groomer? this show i'm credited by the enemy, of saying it's transhumanism and its depopulation. for 20 years and in the last decade, i played clip after clip here. And see, there's two responses to this. There's the response that's probably the most organic, which is the fight. It's the fight or flight, And I'm not even saying physical. You can intellectually fight this, politically, fight this whatever, But it's the fight or flight response. It's seeing that. It's seeing grown men sexually grooming children and molesting children and calling it gay pride and drag queen tranny time and saying, wow, I need to fight against that, That's a bad thing. Or saying, wow, I need to get as far away from that as humanly possible, Or you might be one of the corrupted minds that likes that stuff. So I just really can't even focus on the news right now. So I think I'm going to open up the phone lines and I will be hosting the war room And I think I'll be more apt to focus on news in the three to six hour, as I normally am, Because I just want to know what you're seeing, what you're hearing, Because that's one of the big important things about Info Wars here is not just the mothership of information distribution, with all the guests and all the news we cover, But also it's a mothership, It's a forum for public communications And it is extremely important that we don't atrophy that muscle that we have here. So I think I'm going to give out the phone number right now: 877-789-2539, 877-789-2539.. Do you have more hope for America or less hope? And on top of that, the vaccinations are ruining people's immune systems. So Big Pharma is going to come in and they're going to be the big brother and be their immune system at the same time. That way, they have to rely on them, not only for subsidies, but for healthcare as well. And on top of it all, we have social media controlling that agenda. No matter what you post on Reddit, Twitter, whatever it is, it's not going to come through. There's a heavy left bias and it's huge when it comes to transgenderism and LGBTQ. I get banned on Reddit all the time just by posting an opposite opinion and it's considered trolling by these people because they're pseudo-intellectuals. And I know, you know about the babies and test tubes. They can grow babies and test tubes and I think that may be one of the end game results of people being inferred from vaccinations is: oh, it's so trendy. Grow your baby in a test tube, You can customize it however you want. during this broadcast, we're doling out white pills left, right and center, If you can believe that. in the next segment, I'm going to play a video which I just put up about an hour ago, regarding how the world catifice of social engineering, brainwashing- at least in terms of the regime entertainment system- is beginning to crumble, according to the latest figures, out of Hollywood, out of Netflix, out of Disney Plus. so we're going to get into that. On that subject, though, good news: we've got a new poll, and this has been covered by ValiantNewscom. Pew Research. American belief in trans ideology falling: 60% believe biological sex determines gender, and those figures- the refusal to believe that a man is a woman are rising compared to the previous polls. of course, we've featured polls before which show that more and more Gen Z are identifying as trans, non-binary, lesbian, bisexual, gay, etc. But again, that is obviously to reclaim some sense of uniqueness, some sense of identity that they've lost by being atomized by their own culture, the decline of religion. of course, This is actually good news, though it says. a new poll from Pew Research has suggested that support for the core concept of trans ideology has dropped, with only 38% of Americans believing biological sex does not determine whether someone is a man or a woman. Of course, 38% is a large percentage. still that's way too many, but it is down on previous polls. They surveyed 10,000 Americans on a number of issues last month, including whether biological sex, or self-identification of gender, determines whether somebody is a man or a woman. 60% of those surveyed said that biological sex with the determinant of gender, as opposed to 38% who agreed that gender can be separate from sex assigned at birth. The rejection of the core concept of transgenderism has increased, and this is the key point: 56% of Americans in 2021 and 54% in 2017 believe that biological sex determined gender, So now that has stepped up to 60%. it is moving in the right direction in terms of people who believe in basic reality of biological science. and then it goes on to describe the parties and split which you would expect in the poll itself, but again slowly rising in terms of Americans who, even as it shoved in their face to an infinitely greater and greater degree- and we've seen that over the past month with pride month- the more they shove it in people's faces, the more it gets rejected- this absurd concept that a political movement which is used as a shield to hide the agenda behind. so then you can't criticize the transgender person, you can't criticize the gay activist, because that means you're a bigger, you're hateful, when, of course, they're used as human shields for whatever political agenda the establishment, the regime itself has hidden behind, which, of course, is why you see the pointless virtue signaling by the transnational corporations, banks, by the deep state, by the military industrial complex, every time June comes around. But again, the more they push, the more Americans reject it. It's not about acceptance, it's not about tolerance, it's not about representation. it's about using that movement, outlawing criticism of it- as we see in the UK with hate speech laws, which I'm going to get on to later in the show, banning criticism of it on big social media networks. You saw Jordan Peterson yesterday banned for critiquing transgender ideology, or at least locked out of his account. he's refusing to delete the tweet. So if Twitter doesn't back down before Elon Musk takes it over, Jordan Peterson will presumably never return to Twitter Again. they hide the agenda behind these identity groups, behind these identitarian movements, specifically right now the LGBT movement. But then of course, you have Saudi Arabia banning the gay flag going through stores in Rijah, removing any product with a rainbow color scheme on it. Yeah, it turns out that siding against parents in their bid to protect kids from predatory gender identity and sexual indoctrination isn't very popular with parents who might otherwise take their kids to see your movie. Wow, who knew Picking Team Groomer wasn't quite the win you expected it to be? Who knew that offering to pay for travel expenses that fund abortions of kids would piss off parents who have kids? Disney's stock price has plummeted from $200 down to $90.. They're now totally dependent on income from their theme parks, which are already being depleted of visitors thanks to the pandemic, And it's just a hunch. but Disney's upcoming offering Baymax, in which some amorphous gender non-binary blob takes female sanitary product advice from a biological male wearing a transgender flag, Probably isn't going to do them any favours either. Excuse me, which of these products would you recommend? Oh, um, well, these are the tampons I usually use. Thank you, I prefer pads. They're more comfortable for me. The worm appears to have turned. They really do seem to have overplayed their hand. Tinseltown has gone tits up by trying to make everything political, denying people the ability to at least escape cringe world for a brief period of time, by starving people of uplifting archetypal allegories based on universal human ideals, by caging everything within the partisan, hector and sanctimonious prison of political correctness. But it seems that, in greater numbers than ever, the public, having previously put up with it for the sake of being able to see the latest movie, has had enough. Whisper it quietly, But the edifice of woke brainwashing, at least in the entertainment industry, could be starting to crumble. We're also seeing massive pushback in sports, with transgender bands in both swimming and rugby, And if that goes, maybe the next domino to fall will be the education system. The long march through the institutions may have met a roadblock in the form of a watershed, market-driven revolt. They're coming for your free speech, They're coming for your privacy And, ladies and gentlemen, they're coming for your right to vote and have your representative in government that you and your fellow Americans choose. The new film, the seminal film, the most important documentary ever made in my view- 2000 Mules, is now available on DVD with expanded extras at infowarsstorecom. You can also get the powerful film of the documentaries discounted at infowarsstorecom. They do have plenty of resources to investigate Mean words said on the internet, though. over 3,000 people a year, every year, are arrested in the United Kingdom for offensive tweets, for example. They have plenty of resources to pay officers to go and stand outside supermarkets with big billboards saying being offensive is an offence, as in a criminal act. It isn't technically according to the law, but they just tell people that anyway. So they've got plenty of resources for all that. They've got plenty of resources, for example, to interrogate a man who, a couple of years ago, Harry Miller retweeted a joke that made fun of transgender people. Plenty of resources for that. While some are reporting that BRICS is somehow challenging the globalists, this is demonstrably false. The original concept for BRICS was proposed by the chief economist for Goldman Sachs. BRICS' new development bank is staffed by known players of the IMF and World Bank, and BRICS has repeatedly affirmed their commitment to the United Nations' Agenda 2030.. Aside from Brazil's President Bolsonaro, all of BRICS' nation states have pushed the COVID-19 lockdowns and experimental shots, and China recently announced five more years of their brutal zero COVID lockdowns. Well, he's now on file as having perpetrated a non-hate incident. He hasn't committed an actual crime, but the incident will show up in criminal record checks for the next six years, impacting his future employment opportunities, and he has no right to even appeal it. This despite the fact that police have been told by the government to stop recording so-called hate incidents because, again, they're not actual crimes. Police investigate whenever a comment or action is- quote- perceived by the victim or any others to be motivated by hostility or prejudice. So basically, anyone can just claim to be offended and it automatically becomes a police matter. Around 10,000 such incidents are recorded in the UK on a yearly basis, including when former police officer Harry Miller was interrogated by police for retweeting a limerick that made fun of transgender people. Miller won his case. A court found that his right to free expression had been violated, and police up and down the country are still pursuing this frivolous nonsense while real crimes go unchecked Still. maybe the kid collared for the playground insult should count himself lucky. but he didn't post offensive memes in a private chat group. your take, I mean, I call it an attempt to turn the country into a reeducation camp. what do you call trying to turn retail stores, gyms- you name it in the ninny and control freak in pecking dens. well, I don't know if I'd go to use that many objectives. but listen, planet fitness. it's funny. one of my first videos ever ever was about planet fitness and had nothing to do with the transgender sort of reeducation that's going on right now. it was about the fact that it was, you know, was billed as a judgment-free gym, right, and everything that's done are the guys of- oh, it's judgment-free, it turns out there. they're usually judging a group of people more harshly than anyone else. in a planet fitness, that's athletes. so if you actually look at planet fitness and what their rules are: no deadlifting, there's no squat rack. one woman complained, felt uncomfortable. they revoked her membership. they kicked her out. they've also kicked out people for wearing pro-life t-shirts. they've kicked out people for looking too strong. so this video that I did was really just not so much exclusively about the transgender issue, but pointing out the fact that whenever you claim to be inclusive, at some point everybody is excluding some group of people. so let's just be honest about it. well, my issue is: is that if a guy can't pass as a woman, he thinks he's a woman, he better not go in the women's bathroom. and this is what looks like? a 350-pound guy in a dress. if you look on the again lot of with bettercom, people can go read the comments. liberals are going well, or leftists- I think you're right in your terminology- are saying: well, you know, you're just denying the science. what science am I denying? that if you're, you're born a man or a woman, that you're a man or woman. and of course, liberals and leftists always trot out the extreme examples right to make their case: people who are intersex or people who actually do have some sort of, I guess, genetic abnormality. I don't know if I can use the word abnormal, because now, of course, no transgender people make up point three percent of population America, but we have to refer to everyone who's not that as cisgender. that's the new term they want you to use. I'm going well, gosh there. there are more people in this country who are not arachnophobic. there are more people who are not sure exactly. right on the bone structure. it's bone structure, it's, it's. it's the, the muscles, the tendons. a male brain is more aggressive. male brains make quicker decisions in a fight. it's just well known that you can even remove your testicles- you're still a man genetically- and then a lot of these transvestites aren't even removing their testicles and they're now allowed to be in the UFC beating up women, or they're allowed to run in the Olympics. this is all you. you're gonna have no one in the Olympics soon, but men that have had their genitals cut off. I don't know if I would go that extreme. by the way, Fallon Fox wasn't fighting in the UFC, was fighting in other organizations, whatever fighting and what in those right. I understand your point. well, it is interesting if people said: if that's the science and it's settled, right, that's what anyone says on the left, if they disagree, well, the science is settled, whether it's climate change or now, whether it's the transgenderism thing- which, by the way, I need people to understand, this has not come out of a place of hate. I mean, I've worked as an actor since I was 12. you know, I didn't go to school for many, many days, I mean, because I was out on set. so I worked in an industry that was pretty liberal. you can bet that I've had transgender people working on my face or my my whole life. I've been around it. it's nothing new. you're not attacking anybody, but the issue is it's a tiny percentage of the population. we're bombarded with it, and then it's not fair that a guy can say he's a girl in boxing or UFC or any other MMA. I don't tend to believe that people get together and set agendas a lot of the time. sometimes they do right. there are some people who are proactively evil. I would say you know people like the Akma dinner jobs of the world, or Nancy Pelosi, depending on how you look at it, but I wouldn't say that necessarily in this case. I think what's happened is the bar has just been moved so frequently that people just accept it. I mean, the transgender thing is really relatively new and, by the way, we're having a lesbian guest on my show here this this week or next week, I believe- and a lot of lesbians- a lot of feminists, by the way- are offended by the transgender push. you have some liberal feminists to believe that it's a product of patriarchy, that it's unfair to women for a man to decide that he wants to be a woman and act as though he understands the plight of women and the rights that they don't have. I'm not saying I agree with them. and then you have lesbians who say that they feel bullied and that you know they're being marginalized. so it's not like it's settled, even on the left. but you're told that, hey, if you believe, for example, I watched, you know, not that long ago, maybe about a year and a half ago, Tyra Banks had a little boy coming out who was seven years old and saying: you know, referred to as penises as both defect, she's going: your birth defect, your penis. they're gonna chop it off for the kid because he wants to be a girl. at what point do we say, hey, hold on a second. it might be healthier with a seven year old who, by the way, three minutes ago was wiping his boogers on the couch and we're now allowing him to make sexual decisions for the rest of his life. it might be healthier to maybe see if this, if this kid is confused, it might be healthier to not be. look, death education 2020 to special on this. like 1997, but they introduced it at Columbine, first federally, and then other schools, and within a couple years, there was a doubling and a tripling of suicide. that's the same thing. you start teaching five and six year olds about transvestites and trannies and she males, and, and, and and hemaphradites. the kids end up getting confused and they have the supermodels on TV saying: you know, like you just mentioned, we'll get rid of your birth defect. it sounds like it's an attack on the standard genders of the mammal species, male and female. I think that's what it is. well, yeah, and that's where you know the left loves to accuse people of concerns of being simple, right, yet they grossly oversimplify, for example, the issue of same-sex marriage, and I'm not even talking legally, if you want the government to recognize it or not. two daddies can offer everything that a daddy and a mommy can't. you are saying that two women offer everything that a man can't, and I don't agree with that premise. I don't accept that premise. but here's the problem. when you start down that road- well, you've made men and women fundamentally interchangeable- you now can't say, okay, we're at a fork, we have to stop here. when you get to the transgender issue, you have to be accepting of any and all preferences regarding what people want now in in Europe and in Australia they're trying to legalize pedophilia, saying that, oh, that's the next front we're on from. we're on from. the age of consent in Quebec is 14 years old. now, again, we want to be accepting of people, right? we want to be accepting of everything, apparently. guilt about we've hurt the earth, so pay Al Gore carbon tax. guilt about how you've heard the black people- simply amazing this level of brainwashing. we're gonna play the trailer for the show and more. but this is Sumner Redstone. Viacom, through Nickelodeon and MTV, sexualizing children. number Viacom five, six years ago admitted in a corporate press release they were gonna target pre-teens with transgender and homosexual messages- pedophilia. I mean, imagine saying we're gonna target your kids with heterosexual sex messages when they're six years old. you'd be like that's pedophilia. keep your hands on our kids. when Calvin Klein shows you know 15 16-year-olds scantily clad, they call it pedophilia. school kids told. school kids told to not call themselves boys and girls because that hurts someone's feelings. you think this is insanity, this is going over the top. no, no, this is the new culture. this will be enforced. national review: school kids told to call kids purple penguins, because boys and girls is not inclusive to transgender. and then the elementary kids go: what's transgender? and they go. let us tell you. we're not gonna teach you about the Federal Reserve. we're gonna teach you about reading, writing, arithmetic. you're gonna learn that men wear red high heels. you're gonna learn how to give oral sex. you're gonna learn, you're gonna learn, you're gonna learn. this is a scientific takeover. look at this gender identity curriculum. anger's parents in Virginia school children elementary taught that they could be a transvestite. California, let's grade schoolers aside gender identity. the kids aren't even talking about this. the kids. it's literally less than 1% of the population, but it's being injected with your children, and if they can get away with this with your kids, they can do anything. you'll have such screwed up basket cases. they won't know how to make a peanut butter and jelly sandwich or do the laundry, but, believe me, they will know all about being obsessed over their wee wee. I mean this is mental illness. this is a mass mental illness by design. and if you're a new listener just tuned in, I'm not kidding. here's the headline: school told to call kids purple penguins because boys and girls is not inclusive of transgender. see, being white in and of itself is not inclusive. you understand if you're straight, if you happen to like women and you're a man, that's not inclusive. you must accept. you must be transabled. that's not why I don't like it. it's not that it massively increased my insurance or I just tried to change my insurance and I'm having trouble doing it because of Obamacare. it's not that it caps my employees at 50. it's not that it we might have to lay people off because of it. no, it's because he's black and I'm bad and I, when kids are having a party at my house, I'll say: come on, boys and girls, the ice cream truck just got here, so I'll get an ice cream truck to come. so my kids have a party with a hundred kids- we had P Terry's once with hamburgers- and I'll say: come on, boys and girls. see, it's my sexism, because the word boy or girl is hurtful to transgender. they're probably right there hearing. it's not enough to say: come on, boys, girls and transgendered and transabled. and those identify as a dog. it's because I'm bad. and those that tell me I'm bad, they have a moral authority. they don't have jobs, they don't do anything. yes, Donald Trump's really good conservatives are cooks. yeah, aren't we smart? oh my gosh, yeah, they'll be in restaurants. you hear them all like a cult thing. oh my gosh, that cook, that funny guy, these people, these, these conservatives, just don't get it. oh yeah, oh, I tell you, my friend really stands up for transgender and they are just really I'm just so proud of them and it's just, it's a cult. I mean I used to go to this Methodist church sometimes in Austin, Texas, because they used to have a pretty good preacher back when Bush was in and they were truly anti-war and it was classical liberal. that guy got retired and then they brought in a husband and wife team to get up there. man, and it is Bill Gates. it controls the planet. new MTV show publicly shames white people for what they've done in America: gender identity curriculum. anger's parents in Virginia. they're asking their six-year-olds: would you like to be a boy or a girl? to can and then teaching them about it. US Army forces cadets to her high heels, promote feminist campaign. national review, school told to call kids purple penguins because boys and girls is not inclusive of transgender. this is just out Boehner once. review of Confederate symbols in US capital. Memphis City Council approved plan to dig up Confederate general Nathan Bedford. forest. Here is the report from Joe Beggs detailing exactly the type of culture that we're talking about and that we're dealing with, and this is just the beginning. They can get away with this. They can get away with anything. Here is the special report that we posted at infowarscom, Joe Beggs, here with infowarscom Now, just moments ago I had the opportunity to speak with a very concerned mother, Jessica Bianchi. Now she took her two children, a boy and a girl- The girl's about eight years old- to the doctor for a normal routine visit And some of the questions that were asked of her children were quite concerning. Now, just so a lot of you don't think that I'm pulling your leg, I want to give you a couple of references of things that have happened that have been in mainstream news about transgender roles with children, things like that, the way that our current society is kind of pushing that on these young children. Now this is an article from Washington Times: Children's Hospital opens clinic for transgender children. This is out of Dallas AP, and then also we have out of CBN news: gender identity curriculum: anger's parents in Virginia. So this is something that is happening in and around our country as we speak right now, And also we have a Bloomberg article: California lets grade schoolers decide gender identity. What kind of kid is able to make a decision like that? It's such a young age. their minds are still being molded at this point in time, From national review, school told to call kids purple penguins because boys and girls is not inclusive to transgender. These are dark times that we are living in now. The fact that this is the kind of stuff that is being pushed on our children. Now we're going to go to my interview with Jessica Bianchi and let her tell her side of the story. Alright, thanks, Now we're going to interview Jessica Bianchi. And he said, Oh, I wouldn't know anything about that, I'm not a doctor, but I'm pretty sure all the doctors asked that question. So I mean, as a parent, it's really upsetting to not only have an experience like that, but you can't even get to the bottom of why it's going on, because all you're getting is lies left and right. So, yeah, this is probably a new part of the Obamacare. Some of these questions are rolling out, Some of the typical stuff that they ask veterans as well- do you have guns or not? And then they come in and you know, kick them off their healthcare and this and that. So I mean it's amazing the way that they're pushing this whole transgender lifestyle, especially at such a young age. now you know they have these MTV shows, all these different things, And it's good to see that you're coming out, you're telling the story and kind of helping inform a lot of these other parents so they can look for these signs when they go to the doctor as well. Yeah, definitely It's. I've the biggest takeaway I've gotten from this, honestly, is just: you never know where this is going to come from. You never know we're going to have someone breach your rights as a parent, And so, now more than ever, we just have to really be on on guard and on the look at, look out every possible place, even the places that, for us, used to be safe havens, which is really scary. That's awesome. And she is a spokeswoman for Hold the Line PAC and former Republican nominee for the US Senate. in 2020, Lauren smashed the record for most Republican votes in a Senate candidacy in Delaware. history outside of politics, Addiction recovery is her passion and she is an active volunteer in the recovery ministry, Hold the line. PACcom and she's fighting. of course, also the transgender is trying to take over women's sports and all that. but really the giant pedophile armies that have declared their occupation of the planet and the ownership of our children. for me, the whole transgender thing targeting little boys, mainly autistic little boys all over the world, trying to sterilize them, trying to sexualize them, It's all part of this. And when we get to the next segment, I got two copies of the New York Times that were in my hotel the other day. I was there for two days and it's just all men as women sexualizing little kids. It's like an alternate universe. It just shows that this cult was in control. They can put that info or article back on screen. That'd be great. Yeah, there it is. There is what she had to say. They have a screenshot. Demonic Twitter bans Lauren Witzke for criticizing trans women. who says little girls are tinky. And when you go, look at all these different tweets and Facebooks. these people. they're obsessed with children and they want sexual access to your children, just like the new deputy head of health and human services, that disgusting looking man with the curly hair that calls himself a woman. And listen, I got two New York times this year. while you're talking, I'm going to hold up some of this, literally dozens of pages of New York times with what looks like underage boys dressed like girls, all emaciated, like they're dying. So I'm, I'm ranting here. Lauren, tell us about how you got banned and why. Yeah, So it started. last week I got in a fight with Richard Grinnell, that subversive pervert within our Republican Party, for spotlighting transgenderism at CPAC. You know we are the party of opposing gay marriage, we're the party of traditional family values And what we have allowed is the LGBTQ lobby and their donors to come in and infiltrate our party. So I called him out on it. last week, the neocons and the fake conservatives, the gay conservatives, all mass reported me And I ended up surviving that mass reporting speech to feel. However, calling pedophile demonic is what got me banned. Calling a pedophile transgender woman, who, or man, whatever it is a demonic for openly suggesting that little girls aren't princesses and they're actually kinky And they, if you get abused in the bathroom it's because they wanted it. You know that is absolutely demonic And we allowed this to come into our party and happen. You know we they called us crazy 10 years ago and we talked about the slippery slope. Well, here's the deal that we were right. The slippery slope is here and this is where it's gotten us and we can't even speak out against it and call it out for exactly what it is. They're coming after our children. They are removing parental rights and it all starts with the breakdown of the family. If they can break down the family, the nuclear family, which is the foundation of this nation, they can break down our nation, because that's everything that our party, that our country was founded on, was family, And that's why they went after family first. You know we became a global leader in single parenthood just last year, which is awful because we also incentivized it. but also we pushed degeneracy and glorified ideas like the LGBTQ. We put on a platform transgenderism. you know our party is guilty of that. We glorified transgenderism. We put transgenderism. Let's talk about the Republican Party. Let's talk about the Republican Party, And I'm not even I understand why they had a CPAC- thinks he's doing good. I understand why Charlie Kurt thinks this is all good, because I've been of that mindset myself, But I'm seeing how it's been wrong. Let's come back and talk about this on the other side. I mean, I've always criticized the transgenderism. I always did. It was about biological attacks. I always did. It was about reducing fertility. In the seven, eight minutes we have left, oh and jump in. oh, you've got a lot of points to make. It's just outrageous that Twitter would ban you for pointing out that one of these men that poses as a woman- it's a lot of predators again in the world- poses women, but most recycle movies. it's a man posing as a woman and we know that's in every culture. that's happened for thousands of years. but some of the worst men poses women- and I remember Cuomo- not the one that killed everybody in the nursing homes or all that stuff, but the other one on CNN said so- if you're 11-year-old daughter- this is a tweet- doesn't like to see a man's genitals, he said penis. I mean, this is on CNN. folks, I don't want to even say it here, but what they're saying- then there's something wrong with her and her dad. She should have been taught to like to see a woman's. these are quotes. folks. imagine the gaslighting of that. oh adult. because they were saying in public schools, adult men that are on the coaching staff, when they take the quote girls to play volleyball, that 10,, 11, 12-year-old girls would have the transgender woman who's a man with his genitals in the shower. and this is how crazy this is, this is how out of control this is. and they're saying all over the country in executive order: we're going to put biological men in the showers with your little girls. it's happening, because if you'll put up with that, you'll put up with anything. so, Lauren, I'm going to get you back for a full hour soon. I would read books written by, like Derek Jeter about hard work and sacrifice, and so that's kind of like. that would be like the propaganda that I saw as a kid, like hey, I want to be big and strong, hey, I want to be successful, hey, that's the formula. well, now they open up a magazine and they see a dude in a wig. they see a dude with, you know, eye paint. they see a dude dressing like Little Mermaid and so all of a sudden, that becomes the propaganda that they strive for. so of course, the numbers of transsexuals is going to go up or the numbers of gay people is going to go up, when that's the propaganda that they're receiving and is coming into them and they're consuming. We got to get Lauren Witzke back on the show soon. We love what you're doing. you're awesome. hopefully you'll come back on very, very soon. I can tell you much of Trump's resistance and operating system against the globalists came directly from info wars and, again, that's why the enemy wants us shut down. I can tell you that I have talked to leading Russian intellectuals on and off air and they have said that our fighting against the globalists has also been instrumental over there, But only because it dovetailed with Alexander Solzhenitsyn. as you grow, you learn things. Putin went from being a KGB operative to being a student of Alexander Solzhenitsyn, who he said was basically his central teacher. He went visiting right before he died, privately, and also visiting several times before he died. So I'm not lionizing Vladimir Putin, but he's blocking the transgenderism, the pedophile networks. the globalists and more countries do this. They can defeat the New World Order. So here, ladies and gentlemen, is why they hate Putin and hate Trump. There was no Russians helping Trump. It's a collector's item and you'll know you helped fund the second American revolution against the globalist at such a critical point. Get your gold bars and so much more, exclusively at infowarsstorecom, and I want to thank you for your support over the years because without you, all of the great success we have had together would not have happened. We are the tip of the spear, you are the tip of the spear and I salute you and thank you. Visit infowarsstorecom today And I've got so many breaking stories: the world government being announced, the biomedical tyranny, the UN takeover of all the major nations health care systems. Why they're accelerating this is to cover for global martial law ahead of the financial collapse and the new worldwide digital market- the beast system that's already been announced. Next hour I'm going to get into national news, picking it up late night comics attacking millions of views on YouTube and Twitter, taking very short clips out of what I said last week out of context, where I was showing news articles about fertility dropping, sperm counts dropping 90 plus percent, girls going into puberty at 3,, 4,, 5 years old from the chemicals, penis sizes shrinking all over the world. wherever the globalists get control, it's tied into the chemicals in the water and what's in the vaccines and it's in studies. We showed all that on the what was it Wednesday show and the order went out. take that, edit it, don't show any of us proof and then make a joke about it. Well, I'm going to show you the studies, I'm going to show you mainline news reporting on it next hour and then play what they edited. the hemaphroditic movement They attack because this was their previous operation, but now they're just going straight to poison shots. They call vaccines that implant the DNA not just of you but your children, with a cancer-causing blood, clot-causing kill switch. and that's mainline news now. So I'm not going to name drop here, but I always like to give you where things came from. I'd forgotten about this. so I sent a prominent talk show host a clip today and I said: you know, here's these late-night shows and here's these you know big Twitter accounts with millions of views saying I'm lying about chemicals causing penises to shrink because the media seized on that to edit that out and just not show the proof I showed last week. I'm about to show you again and just think of the evil of that. They know, they just saw the proof, London Telegraph, New York Times admitting it but not telling you why it's happening. and then they just say, oh, it's not happening. There's Sky News: Human penises are shrinking because of pollution-worn scientists. It's a little bit more than that and it's specific. So this Ron Fliposkey, who makes his job to attack us, which is fine, because the truth will come out. Alex Jones says globalists are putting chemicals in the liners of soft drink cans. that's like mainline news that it's causing men's penises to shrink. That was one footnote of the mutations it's causing, and you can see the video right there, that one with a million views. So all we're doing is showing articles. they don't show you that. they just go: oh, he's a discredited person we've attacked. So here's the viral clip. Does this to humans as well. That's why genitals- I don't care if you're black or white- are a third the size they were of a 1960s male. So the media makes jokes about that. a few months ago, and I gave the example of: you know, if your daddy's Johnson was a foot long, yours is six inches long. and if yours was six inches, your son will be three inches and the one that won't even have a penis. We can make jokes about that all day long, but it's hitting the game. You can say, okay, well, who cares? Well, we're sterilized and the sperm counts are down 96%. but they didn't show in the articles I showed. Oh, then he makes another joke. Oh Jones claims girls are going to puberty earlier. That's not true. He's insane, even though it's massive problem on record. Here's Sky TV out of the UK. Human penises are shrinking because of pollution, warned scientists. Dr Shana Sean has found that chemicals- she wrote the book called phallates- are causing human babies to be born with malformed genitals. But what's? who cares if babies are deformed? Scientists say human penises are shrinking due to pollution, which they do by design. It's a formula. It's even cheaper not to do it. They pay more to do it. That's Jerusalem post. Oh, but you're not going to have Ron Flipkowski talk about that. He'll just edit it out and say: look, Jones is insane, He made it up. Here's another one: India today. Human penises are shrinking due to pollution. Euro news: Penises are shrinking because of pollution. And it goes on and on with article after article after article. We'll play a clip of an excerpt of the best selling scientific book written by a doctor, with all the footnotes in a minute. but just remember I did this earlier in the week with all the proof, And on the late night comedy and on the news shows and on the Twitter feeds they put out any version saying he made it up because they don't want you to know. So remember: it also causes cancer. Maybe you don't want to have a penis, Maybe you want your daughter to go into puberty at five and die when she started a cancer. That's trendy, I get it, It's awesome, You know, like Apple runs death camps in China, but he's gay, so it's cool. But the point is is that this is going on and this is happening And that's why they want to censor us and shut us down, so they can just murder you with all this and not give you a chance to respond to it. And you'll see clips on the news making fun of it out of context. They won't show all those articles because, again, they're murdering you, They're your enemies, They love it, They enjoy it and they're not going to stop because they're evil people turned over to absolute corruption. Small penises, at least your problem. How about sterilization? and early cancer? How about death? Well, they're right back. And I will not be part of that And you should make the decision right now whether you're part of it or not. Here's Bill Maher. This issue. Yes, part of the rise in LGBT numbers is from people feeling free enough to tell it to a pollster, And that's all to the good. But some of it is, it's trendy. Hey, penis equals man. Okay, boomer, Remember, the prime directive of every teen is anything to shock and challenge the squares who brought you up. It's why nobody gets a nose ring at 56. And if you haven't noticed that, with kids, doing something for the likes is more important than their own genitals, you haven't been paying attention. Dr Erica Anderson is a prominent 71 year old clinical psychologist who is her self transgender and who now says: I think it's gone too far. The LA Times summarizes: she's come to believe that some children identifying as trans are falling under the influence of their peers and social media. If you attend a small dinner party of typically very liberal upper income Angelenos. it is not uncommon to hear parents who each have a trans kid having a conversation about that. What are the odds of that happening in Youngstown, Ohio? If this spike in trans children is all natural, why is it regional? No, either Ohio is shaming them or California is creating them. All right, the full clip. It's like that day We suddenly all the full clips on info warscom. But the point is, this is really just the establishment knowing they woke folks up, So they move the original window over to sterilize all the children. it's Alex Jones. It's Thursday, March 30th 2023.. I'm your host, Alex Jones. We have another incredibly important transmission lined up for you today. We have Roger Stone with Big Breaking News joining us in the second hour, Drew Hernandez joining us in the third hour and Paul Joseph Watson in the fourth hour. And boy do we have a full plate on the war front, on the economy front, on the total AI takeover, censorship front, on the transgender nation front, on black reparations in California that cost $800 billion government estimates. It is all the design takedown of our civilization. Thank you for joining us again on this live, Uncensored, teleprompter-free edition of the Alex Jones Show. I was the first, really 25 years ago or so to track where the transgender movement came from. and it was created by the transhumanist movement of Aldous Huxley, who really founded the United Nations and really ran it for the 30 years that he was alive, after setting it up in 1946 at Presidio Naval Base in San Francisco. And they said that once we bring up the family and once we confuse the genders, we can then separate children basically at birth and raise them as functionaries of the state, similar to the book his brother wrote in 31, or published in 32,, Brave New World, Aldous Huxley. So Huxley again wrote- I talk about this all the time and thank God now even Tucker Carlson is talking about it. If you go read it, it's incredible. We're going to chemicalize you and brainwash you from birth. You'll never know what hit you. And Bertrand Russell and others wrote books saying the same thing. So that's what this is. That's why it has pure, total corporate backing. And the good news is the public's really starting to figure out that the minions of this are mainly just autistic children who were put into the system and told they were transgender and celebrated and other mentally damaged folks because they always had to have a way to celebrate those they'd already brain damaged and then shunt them off into a sterilization program. But transgenderism is just the leading edge of this. And if you go to any of these transgender events in Kentucky or in Texas or in New York, we have countless videos. They are men dressed like clowns saying that's what a woman is at the clown, normally wearing bathymet outfits, And we have long compilations We played many times- We should probably play some of those- I haven't played them in a while- Of these individuals showing up at city councils everywhere in bathymet outfits. That happened a lot yesterday across the country, saying we're here to groom your children. They belong to us. We're going to get them. But Rand Paul goes: okay, well, are we going to ban all the other big tech here, Because they're all just the same? So I get his point as well, But it's a distraction from S-6-8-6. Because that bill does nothing to TikTok. It just takes over the entire web in the name of protecting you from TikTok and everything else. So we have that news. We have a big stack of the transgender cult going completely crazy all over the country As local governments and state governments move to protect children from the cult, which is extremely pedophilic at its heart. a lot of big developments on that front we're going to be going through. Also, I didn't see it in the stack. I meant to tell the crew, But we're going to be playing this coming up at the bottom of the hour. Cruz dims, perfectly willing to turn a blind eye to child rape and murder at the border. Ann Coulter has written a really informative article that I will not read here on air but you should read it. It's Transgender Nation. It's at townhallcom And she lays out the fact that it is a leftist sacrament of almost 90% white people who go get pregnant or adopt children so they can then tell them that they're another sex and force them, as it's now coming out, to transition and force them to cut their genitals off And what it does to little boys, how, for up to five years, they have to wear a giant cone inside their bleeding, bloody body because they don't have a vagina, they don't have a cervix, they don't have a uterus And let's just face it, women are amazing but they go through a lot: having a vagina, having a cervix, having a uterus, having ovaries And anybody that's been around and has a wife or mothers or sisters or children, I mean. you know, what girls go through is tough And they're designed with a vagina, with a cervix, with a uterus, to do this. And I was sent a clip yesterday that I forgot to send the crew that I hadn't seen. Tim Pool was playing a clip of this famous transgender individual. it's had a TV show, I guess, for over a decade, as the little boy transitioned to a girl And it's his mother making him do it and then him crying and complaining. but everybody loves the mother. she's a hero. When they chop the penis off, it goes over the years. I hadn't seen this till yesterday. I popped by my parents house, talked to one of their friends, one of my childhood friends, and I've known the woman since I was a kid, three years old. She was there. she said: have you seen this? And I said no. and then it was the mother making him wear in his body for five years a giant bloody cone inside of his body into an imaginary uterus. So not only did they chop his testicles and his penis off, but then they jammed a huge bloody cone up in him. it's infected and pus is dripping out. the person is in hell. mommy, why? Because I'm gonna kick your ass, I'm gonna come destroy you. you're a girl you've known you're always a girl. she made him say he was a girl. she cut off his penis. she cut off his genitals. the state did it, and now he wears a pussing bloody cone in him. I mean this is just so macabre, like it's a nightmare novel. I mean, imagine 30 years ago if Clive Barker wrote novels where children are made to cut their penises and breast off and testicles and then boys are made to wear basically something worse than a chastity belt from an evil times, strapped around their body with a giant bloody cone up in their raw flesh that just continues to fester and bleed and open up in a huge torture device. and they said it's all a giant satanic sacrament and a sick joke that they do this. and then all these mainly white liberal parents are just lining up to do it and it's just a giant satanic ritual in everybody's face. it's just so over the top, so hellish. we'll talk about it all when we come back. it's bad. we're going to be watching this as it unfolds. I'm not saying there isn't a shooting in Forsyth Tech in North Carolina. I'm saying we hope it's not true. okay, so in Coulter's got a big article out, all these studies and numbers and research and it's dead on. but it is a phenomenon of 91 plus percent of the households where they are saying that the children are transgender or white and most of them are single mother led and it's just a thing that's hyped up. that's cool that everybody's got to do kind of like. in 2000s, the thing for hollywood people to do was to go adopt a black baby from africa. they- basically almost all of them- did it. that's at least adopting a poor baby. Mr Secretary, would you like to respond to any of those questions? What the Senator said was revolting. I'm not going to address it. Your refusal to do your job is revolting. See the full exchange at Infowarscom. Now, how obscene is it to say we've got to give the state and psychologists and the schools access to children to convince them they're in other sex and then mutilate them sexually and then accept mass shooters because we weren't nice to the transgender people and didn't accept their agenda? and then we've got stuff like this right here from the Associated Press: Reparations for black Californians could top $800 billion. Oh, remember Biden said he'd give everybody free education and forgive all the student loans Soon as he got elected. Oh sorry, You don't get that now. They're not going to give black people reparations. The people on top know what they're doing And the only way to reach out to these folks is to show them you're miserable because you were put in a psychological dungeon where the trick is they make you get deeper in the cult, thinking you get better, but as you get deeper and only gets more destructive. Here's a few minutes of what he had to say about it. So I get the visceral gut reaction to a lot of what's gone on in the past couple of days. However, one thing that I don't get is why we are exactly empowering a lot of the psychosis and, if not, fueling it. Now let me explain what I mean. The reason why you have these trans activists basically calling for a day of vengeance and you have people essentially taking up arms now that fly under the LBGTQIA2 plus whatever that is- flag, is because you have this prevailing narrative by the media powers, the Machiavellian shitlords that be that says: hey, everybody wants to kill trans people, Everybody wants to kill LBGTQ people. Your rights are being taken away and these people are bombarded with this day in and day out, Not only from the outside sources like the media, but also from their influencers, who basically come online and say the same thing verbatim and cite misused statistics and basically put it out there into the environment. One of the issues is that now you have people on the right who are seizing upon this, who are basically going the route of: okay, we're going to say that these trans people are nuts and we need to do something about them. and while, yes, I think that gender dysphoria is a topic that we need to tackle and the mental health institutions need to become more than just glorified psychoactive drug slingers, it does not need to become one of these situations where we have hard legislation because Congress screws everything up that they touch. Furthermore, when you start doing that, you start getting the pearl clutches and people wringing their hands, wanting something to be done which results in actual action. that validates the paranoid psychosis that trans people are already experiencing. and no, I'm not talking about all trans people, but I'm talking about the trans people who believe that somebody's out to kill them. Do you really want to do that? Because what you do is you create a self-fulfilling prophecy in which they think somebody's out to kill them. You basically radicalize some people who believe that trans people think this and that they're going to try to kill them first, and now you have people actually out to try and kill trans people. Let me break this down to you, though. Part of the reason why you see a lot of violence against, let's say, female to male or not even female to male, male to female- trans people- See how confusing that is and you expect us to get pronouns right, come on. But part of the reason why a lot of this violence happens is because you have these trans people engaged in sex work. a lot of them get into pornography. a lot of them get into prostitution. a lot of them are doing out calls and meet ups with people, and these people who are already engaged in these industries, let's just say they're not the best of people. So what's stopping these people from meeting somebody, kidnapping and killing just because they're a scummy person that also likes to have you know, also likes to have steamy encounters with trans people? That's not good, but that is why the trans death rate for male to female trans people is so high. It's not because you have, you know, Joe Blow out in Alabama who's like: come on, boys, let's go kill some of them- shrimp arils. It's not because you have them taking some streets and doing it. it's because the inherent situations that most of these people who, let's be honest, typically if somebody's suffering from gender dysphoria. There's a couple more minutes left of this when I put the rebroadcast up, but we'll put everything he said in, but I want to get him on as a guest. The great Roger Stone, the political analyst that got President Trump to run, the guy that's got the inside scoop in baseball on what's really happening, joins us for the balance of the hour here on this Thursday edition of the Alex Jones Show. He's about to give you the 35,000 foot historical view on what's really happening. They're now saying that the grand jury, because of the pressure put on it, the political nature of it, the Soros control, is now taking a month-long hiatus. They're now saying it's completely normal but really wasn't going to be happening. But I don't think they'll give up on Trump and so Roger's got a lot on that. He wants to get into the culture, wars and the transgender out-recruiting children. Now the Democrats have forged into the tip of their spear more on Hunter Biden's laptop and so much more on the political climate, Not just here but in the world, with the great Roger Stone. Roger, great to have you here from thestonezonecom. Alex, great to be back with you. Of course, when I'm at Infowars I always feel like I'm back home. Burning hell, New World Order. If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance. All right, Drew Hernandez is going to be taking over for the rest of the hour because I got to go to a bankruptcy hearing online here in about 30 minutes, but I'm going to introduce him. next segment. But Tucker Carlson: three days before, the trans devil cultists are still suppressing the manifesto, attacked and killed these children and other innocent people. Tucker said: the trans people are going to start killing us. You've got the young turds and you've got all of them out there saying attack, attack. People are killing trans. Statistically, conservatives are killing no trans people, Their lifestyle, what they've been inducted into as children. on average, they're the highest level of suicide, death, murder, killing. And it's the left that's chewing up these mainly young men that have been told they're girls and given these destructive hormones. So here's just a four-minute compilation, very small amount, of the evidence. it's so much of them saying: your children belong to us. Trans ideology claims dominion over nature itself. We can change the identity we were born with, they will tell you with wild-eyed certainty. Christians can never agree with this statement because these are powers they believe God alone possesses. That unwillingness to agree, that failure to acknowledge a trans person's dominion over nature, incites and enrages some in the trans community. People who believe they're God can't stand to be reminded that they're not. So Christianity and transgender orthodoxy are wholly incompatible theologies. They can never be reconciled. They are on a collision course with each other. One side is likely to draw blood before the other side. That's what we concluded last week. Police have released body cam footage from the end of the massacre. We're showing you just a small part of it. You can see the rest online if you want. We're not going to show it because it's too awful and sad. But what was almost as sickening to see, in a far more subtle and insidious way, was the media coverage of yesterday's tragedy. Here's Terry Moran of ABC News, for example, suggesting that Christians were murdered in Tennessee because they infringed on the rights of transgendered people Watch. Audrey Hale identified herself as a transgender person. The state of Tennessee earlier this month passed, and the governor signed, a bill that banned transgender medical care for minors, as well as a law that prohibited adult entertainment, including male and female impersonators. after a series of drag show controversies in that state, The state of Tennessee bans the sexual mutilation of children. Children get shot to death in a school. It's cause and effect. That's what ABC News is telling you. These people want to murder you, They want to kill you And they're showing it out in the open because even guys- this even happened with the press secretary of Katie Hobbs. She resigned yesterday because she came out in support of all the radical trans terrorism, of these people coming out and saying we need to kill Christians, We need to kill these people, We need to do this. All this radical rhetoric that's not covered by free speech, can't sit there and say: you want to murder people, All right, That's a direct threat to humanity. You guys understand that- I know you do. But even at the level of the press secretary of the so-called governor of Arizona resigned yesterday because she was sympathizing with the trans terrorists and their rhetoric to run around and go on the offense and hurt people that disagree with them. He's posting memes with individuals with guns saying that: oh, this is a. yeah, I totally support this, This is the, this is, this is what trans people do, and they, you don't want to come after us. I'm paraphrasing, But the point is here, ladies and gentlemen: do not be desensitized. Don't ever be afraid, And I know if you watch info wars, you're not afraid. you're not afraid of getting canceled. If you're still watching info wars, after everything Alex Jones has ever been through, you're not afraid of being canceled. And the mainstream media and the New World Order that's backing it all causes this mass instability. They need mass instability in the masses, in the population, So it gives them an excuse. This is on the book Rules for Radicals, right? They need mass instability, so the people are begging them for a savior. The people are begging for Big Brother, begging for big government, begging for the ones with the guns and the firearms to step in and put a stop to the violence, unlike martial law, right, See, but this is how these people cause this mass instability. And, by the way, let me just make myself clear, Just by the way, for the record, trans people do not exist, okay, They're not real. And let me explain to you why Some conservatives like just cannot comprehend this. It's like so mind blowing, right? If trans people have obvious gender dysphoria, mental illness, mental instability, they don't live inside of reality, They live in la la land. I don't feel comfortable in my gender. I don't feel comfortable as my sex, So I'm just going to identify as a box for the day. Welcome to the Alex Jones Show. ladies and gentlemen, I'm a box coming to you, live, Here we are. The only way we fail is not taking action. God bless you. Now, please visit Infoworkstorecom and experience these powerful products for yourself. Leading a frontal assault on the lies of the New World Order, It's Alex Jones Transmuting worldwide from the summitme studios in the United Kingdom. You are listening to Paul Joseph Watson. Well, three days after a transgender terrorist entered a Christian school in Nashville and killed three nine-year-old children as well as three adults, We now have, three days on from that absolute outrage, Transurrectionists- yesterday in Kentucky and today in Tennessee- staging their own January 6 style insurrection- invading the Capitol building in Tennessee, entering the chamber, getting into physical confrontations with police officers. Unlike the January 6 insurrectionists, they weren't invited and escorted into the building. There you see this maniacal mob tussling with cops, screaming things about trans rights. They're very upset about losing the ability to chemically castrate children in Tennessee. They're upset about drag queen shows being restricted on public property, with kids not being exposed to degenerate sexualized trash. in the United States of America, though CBS News: Hundreds protest at Tennessee Capitol for tighter gun controls after Nashville shooting. Listen to how they frame it, given those scenes of that trans rights mob that you just saw there. Hundreds of school children- Didn't see many school children in that video. Teens and parents gathered at the Tennessee Capitol on Thursday to protest for tighter gun controls Three days after a shooter opened fire at the Covenant School. Again they're framing it as: oh, it's just a sober, humble, respectful, calm protest by children and parents outside the Tennessee Capitol. Reality screaming maniacal mob of transgender activists demanding more rights: The right to chemically castrate children, give them hormone blockers, puberty blockers, hormone treatment Says that the Capitol protesters lined the hallways and chanted at the state's Republican dominated legislature. They filed in, Filed in, They burst their way in and start fighting with the police. Oh, they just orderly filed in, didn't they? They were very respectful BS To begin taking up bills. for the first time since the shooting, chants of save our children echoed noisily in the hallways Between the state, Senate and House chambers, with protesters setting up shop inside and outside the Capitol. I guess they were just setting up shop too, were they? Some silently filled the Senate chambers, gallery some, what? two of them? They're all screaming like banshees. Watch the video- It's all over Twitter right now, Including children who held signs reading I'm nine, a reference to the age of the three kids who died in Monday's attack. Again, the bodies are barely cold and they're invoking the three victims of the transgender terrorist to try to get more guns taken out of good people's hands. Why did the transgender terrorist, Miss Hale- almost misgendered Miss Hale- then? why did the transgender terrorist refuse to target the other schools that were in the manifesto, the maps that she had, The other buildings, the mall, the other targets that were on that list? Because, as the police have said, they had better security. They had more good people with guns, But these people want fewer good people with guns. They're not really offended about the monster with a gun that took those nine-year-old's lives. They're more offended about puberty blockers being withdrawn, hormone treatments being withdrawn, drag queens not being able to show their crotches around children. They certainly aren't being chaperoned by the building. The mainstream media- CBS News- is reporting that they're staging, in some cases, a silent protest as they literally scream their heads off and get into violent tussles with the police. Meanwhile, Joe Biden, whose first reaction to the horrific shooting on Monday, was to doddle around on stage like the Alzheimer patient- he is not making fun of people with Alzheimer's- very serious disease- but should the president of the free world be in that position? his first response was to come down and mumble about how he liked chocolate chip ice cream and crack jokes about it. That was bad enough. Yesterday he joked again when asked by reporters about Senator Josh Hawley's comments about the transgender terrorist attack being a hate crime. He said: well, if Hawley says it's a hate crime, then it's probably not, even though he hasn't even seen the manifesto, because no one's seen it yet. And I'm going to get onto that Again. he's joking with reporters, and he's done it again, Telegraph headline. There you see the clip from yesterday where he's asked about it by the reporters laughing and joking about it. Biden says if we protect LGBTQ plus individuals, our societies are stronger. Maybe if we protect schools full of Christian children, then our societies might be more immune to this kind of horror. But no, he didn't talk about that. He talked to world heads of state at a virtual event titled Summit for Democracy About a fair and stronger society. quote: when we advance equality and racial justice and invest in young people, protect the LGBTQ individuals, Our societies are not only fair, but they're stronger and more successful. This, of course, is after two days of the mainstream media expressing more worry and concern over misgendering people in relation to the transgender community And, in fact, in the early stages, after the shooting, misgendering the shooter herself. You saw that with USA Today, You saw it with New York Times, You saw it with BBC News, where they tried to blame the police. So the police were confused about the gender. Not really. The police came out straightaway in Nashville and said It's a woman. Only later, when it came out that it was a transgender identified individual, were the media like: Oh, we don't really know, Because they didn't want to upset the alphabet people by misgendering somebody who's just massacred children. God forbid we should disrespect the memory of that cretin. Absolutely incredible. This is interesting, though, Out of the Daily Mail. Nashville shooter was having private counseling sessions with school's head pastor before massacre where she shot his nine year old daughter because he wasn't on site. They're now speculating and the school's denying this, by the way, So it could be 50: 50. I don't know, but it's being reported This transgender terrorist was actually having counseling sessions with the Christian pastor of the school. Now, what does that suggest? that the pastor was trying to convince Audrey Hale out of following this transgender lifestyle in line with the wishes of her parents, who, of course, said that they refused to respect the pronouns of this monster. They thought that she sold all the weapons that were in fact being hidden in the home. Was this pastor involved in trying to detrans this trans identified individual And was that one of the motives for the attack? Former pastor of the Covenant School has claimed that the trans shooter, Audrey Hale, was receiving counseling sessions with the father of one of her victims. It is speculated in this report and others that that footage you saw of the killer wandering around the school was where she was actually trying to find this pastor, who was the father of Haley Scruggs, tragically, of course, killed in the shooting. But the pastor Scruggs was not in the school building And so the transgender terrorist instead, having wanted to target him, simply shot his daughter dead. However, there's a huge grain of salt in this reporting, and it is that these claims have been denied by the Covenant School itself, with a spokesperson telling Daily Mail Metro. Nashville police have been clear: No one was targeted in the shooting and Pastor Scruggs was not counseling the shooter. So again we've seen this, with the media initially coming out and saying, oh, there's no known motive, because they thought the manifesto would remain hidden. They thought they could sweep the motive under the rug. Now they're talking about the parents, disrespecting the pronouns, blaming the parents for the shooting as if it was their fault. Of course we've seen Cenk Wieger and all these other vile people on Twitter suggesting that Audrey Hale was bullied and that we should stop bullying transgender people- Again, complete victim blaming behavior- absolutely despicable. Now there's a sense that this narrative is shifting to well, what involvement did this pastor have in the life of this transgender terrorist And maybe we can blame him? Maybe he was actually being targeted. But again that's contradicted by the fact that the police found maps showing other targets- malls, other schools that had nothing to do with Pastor Scruggs. So I would suggest that, as the school is denying, this report is actually not true. She wasn't directly targeting the pastor, She was targeting the school And that's going to come out in the manifesto. after the fact. Many of you will remember James T Hodgkinson back in I think it was 2017.. Again, deliberately targeted Republican shot up a baseball, a basketball practice game- I think it was one of the two, Of course- nearly killing Congressman Steve Scalise. It took days for the mainstream media to even acknowledge that he was a far left Bernie Sanders supporter and he believed the rhetoric that basically, leftists need to start killing Republican lawmakers in order to fight back against then President Donald Trump. Whenever there's a right wing or even a tenuously connected to conservatives mass shooting carried out by an individual with conservative politics, there's an immediate rush to release all the details, all the social media history, any manifesto that's available, so they can weaponize it and use it to tarnish their political adversaries. Strange, then, in this case, that we know there's a manifesto. the police came out immediately and said this individual's transgender identity is related to the motive of the shooting. there's a manifesto, and that manifesto almost certainly contains details of the motive and why this monster did it. Now you'll notice the difference. there wasn't an immediate call to release it. there was an immediate call to cover it up, to bury it, to hide it. Trans advocates decry calls to release Nashville School Shooters Manifesto, reports ValiantNewscom. They cite, of course, this Newsweek report that left wing LGBTQ groups are calling for more focus on gun control and less focus on the transgender shooter's mysterious motives. It should not be published, said Jordan Budd, executive director of children of lesbians and gays everywhere to the outlet. The focus should be on how basically they can exploit it for gun control. PFLAG- very shady name there, an organization for LGBTQ support within families- apparently cited the risk of contagion and told Newsweek the manifesto's contents don't change the outcome of the tragedy. Every time somebody who can be tenuously connected to conservative politics carries out an outrage, they immediately call for the manifesto to be released in full. it's just a matter of when. There are some incredibly brilliant psychological minds and psychological analysts combing through her entire life, and that is the FBI behavioral analysis unit. Some people have questioned- and you can't blame them- whether the FBI is actually going to release this manifesto in full. If they've got control of it, how much of it will be redacted? to protect the LGBTQ community, as Joe Biden in his comments earlier has said, is one of the biggest priorities. after this transgender terrorist shot three children dead, Presumably once we get the manifesto in the name of protecting the LGBT community, Of course the media reports and the immediate aftermath of the shooting focused in on Tennessee restricting drag queen performances in public venues and, of course, on banning what they call gender affirming care, which is basically chemical castration of children, puberty blockers, hormone treatment for children who, without even consent of their parents- and they're doing a similar thing in schools in the UK, which I'm going to get on to say they identify as non-binary, as transgender, after in their confused embryonic minds, having been re-educated, socially engineered, indoctrinated, brainwashed with that very canon in the public schools themselves. So the media came out and said this has got something to do with Tennessee doing this, using that in a way to justify the shooting itself, which is particularly sick, but at least acknowledging that that was likely one of the motives of the shooter? will it come out in the manifesto or will it be a different narrative, which I spoke about before the break, where they're trying to make it into the direct personal targeting of this pastor and a personal grievance? because if they run with that narrative, they can then circumvent having to ask serious questions about whether this very small fraction, this trans activist movement, is becoming radicalized, is becoming violent, is becoming more dangerous, especially given now, of course, as we've seen them taking up weapons, training them, staging trans day of vengeance on April the 1st, which will still go ahead, by the way. you'd think they'd maybe look at the optics and think a transgender terrorist has just killed three infant children. should we cancel an event which is literally called the trans day of vengeance, which some supporters have posted images of themselves with firearms in support of that trans day of vengeance? is it wise, is it reasonable, is it cogent to maybe put that on ice for a week or two? no, it goes ahead anyway. these people, of course, have no common sense because in many cases they're mentally ill. back to the manifesto. revolver news reports, LGBTQ activists fighting tooth and nail to keep transgender shooters manifesto buried. they know that the FBI is going to comb through it and it's apparently going to be released. after that but say there's a catch, the FBI will pour over the document and likely redact much of it. secondly, the release date is still unknown, so they're speculating. maybe we won't see this for weeks, for months, until after the whole narrative behind the shooting and the focus on it has died down. daily skeptic reports- and I just mentioned this trans day of vengeance to go ahead in DC, despite school massacre by trans activists- that ain't gonna stop them. despite three nine-year-olds being gunned down by a transgender shooter at private christian school in Nashville, activists are still rallying the troops to protest for a trans day of vengeance, months after raising money for firearms training, but they've renamed it, so now I guess it's all okay. it's just a harmless protest, it's not a day of vengeance. transgender shooter Audrey Hale opened fire at the covenant school in Nashville uh killed three children during a rampage, obviously, but despite rising political tensions across the country, which saw a press secretary for Arizona's democrat governor- oh yeah, we had this story yesterday- post a tweet about shooting transphobes, right? so a transgender terrorist has just killed three children in cold blood in a school shooting. this person composes a tweet which is a clip from a movie, of a woman holding two guns commenting about shooting transphobes in the immediate hours after a transgender terrorist has gunned down three nine-year-old kids. that person has thought about that tweet, has hovered over the mouse button and thought: yeah, that's good, I'll send that click. these people are deranged and they're not gonna stop. we'll be back with more on this and on the attack on the activist Hosea Parker in New Zealand by the same mob of people after the break. don't go away. enrich your life, empower your body and keep us on air. please take action now. info war storecom leading a frontal assault on the lies of the new world order. it's alex jones, live from london, england. it's paul joseph watson with summit dot news. now, two days before the school shooting, there was another outrage involving this uh, much vaunted transgender community, and that took place in new zealand, where a women's rights activist who committed the crime of tweeting. a woman is an adult, human, female. that's it. that's all she did. she set up a speaking event at which women's rights activists who want female spaces protected from grown, hairy men displaying their genitals in public bathrooms and places like that. that's all she wanted: a lineup of women speakers to reinforce female spaces, women's rights, basically, old-school feminists. posy parker- that's the name she goes by. no, that's not allowed. she has to be viciously, violently attacked by this huge mob who, by the way most a lot of them- weren't even transgender identified individuals. they were just huge, six foot two, grown men, not even pretending to be women. she was mobbed, she was attacked. she was also doused with uh soup, tomato soup by this transgender activist who has now literally fled the country and has entered america, presumably because he tweeted that he was on a plane going to america. this is a literal fugitive, now fundraising on an online platform to protect himself against legal ramifications for assaulting posy parker. this headline is out of redux dot info, which is an excellent resource on this kind of insanity. new zealand trans activists charged with assault after attacking women's rights campaigner. trans activists who threw tomato juice on a women's rights campaigner during a free speech event in auckland has been charged with common assault and again, this took about two or three days for this individual to even be charged after a massive online backlash. the police allowed her to get attacked. she had a few security guards, thankfully, protecting her. she said at the time or immediately after, she thought she'd be dead if she fell down. she'd be trampled on. she'd be absolutely mobbed and attacked. eliana rubish akin, also known as eliana golberstein and eliana rubinstein, is a male who identifies as transgender and intersex- whatever that is, uses they them pronouns. march 25th, rubish kin attacked women's rights campaigner kelly j keene- that's posy parker's real name- during what was supposed to be a peaceful women's rights demonstration. again, as i explained, keene had arranged for a speaking tour of new zealand based around giving women a platform to express their thoughts on gender ideology. she was forced to cut the tour short and this was wasn't even the first incident. she went to australia. they cry out in, they lash out in pain, or they cry out in pain as they lash out and attack you. they do that every single time, like david pacman, the guy who tweeted: oh, i guess the the kids at the school who were slaughtered just didn't pray hard enough. he gets rightfully criticized for that. then he claims about anti-semitism. he claims he's getting threats. they do this outrageous behavior, in this case with this transgender activist, physically attack people and then claim that they're the victim- the cry bully syndrome every single time. videos of the incident have since circulated on social media. you've probably seen it by now. following the event, rubish akin gave an interview where he claimed that he targeted keen because her words are blood, because they're killing our people. tweeting a woman is an adult, human, female. bear in mind, not even kyle written house. people with, uh, lesser involvement in actual violence than kyle written house, despite that, of course, being completely justified given that he was under violent, deadly attack- use platforms, like you know, go fund me and different fundraising platforms for any political cause, basically not even particularly controversial causes, because they're conservative, because they write their right wing, they get banned immediately. this individual, who has been charged with assault and has fled the country as a fugitive, goes on give a little dot co, dot nz and he's raising money for security expenses and has so far raised over nine thousand dollars in just a few days, while this individual is literally a fugitive, charged with physical assault, pretending to be a victim and grifting off of the back of it, and this donation platform is facilitating an actual fugitive criminal in the raising of this money- absolutely incredible behavior. let's go quickly to this first video, though. otherwise i'm not going to get through any of them. this is about a power lifter who responded to the canadian power lifting union saying transgenders can identify as any gender by entering one of the competitions and trying to prove a point. this is called the proof is in the pudding. here it is. canadian power lifting union recently announced a progressively inclusive new rule. their trans inclusion policy said transgender power lifters would be able to choose which gender category they compete in- quote, whether or not they have undergone hormone therapy. rv silverberg, a powerlifting coach, decided to put this to the test. silverberg, now, identifying as a woman, stepped up to take part in the heroes classic powerlifting, meet women's bench press. and here's what happened. competing in the 84 kilograms plus women's category, silverberg broke the record rv set out to prove that gender self-identification policies in sport were completely unfair. Yes, I just said that. That's who has charged the 45th president of the United States with an indictment that doesn't allege crimes. It says you covered up other crimes, but does it say what the other crimes are? Absolutely dumbfounding, flabbergasting, poleaxed. And then we've got more video. White House press secretary says it's not for us to decide if killing Christian children constitutes a hate crime, But she did say last week that the attack shows that there is a suppression of our trans people. And Biden said trans are the soul of the country. That more election meddling. ABC News blurs out Trump donation number. They don't do that for Democrats. it's being reported around the country that literally no one is buying Budweiser or Bud Light. You shouldn't buy any Anheuser-Busch products ever anyway. it's a globalist company, But they advertise: we're the common man, We're the average Joe, We're red, white and blue. Yeah, maybe 20 years ago, Budweiser is a globalist company and they hired the lunatic Dylan Mulvaney, and you know, to be the woman of the year and all the rest of it. She's a woman of the year about a bunch of publications and said: this is what a woman is. Well, now Nike has piled on and is mocking women at sponsoring transgender activists, promote sports bra. So this is all just the psy-op to destroy the country. And yes, why would Nike destroy themselves? Why would Anheuser-Busch destroy themselves? Because they're all weapons systems. MSDS is a document that details the hazardous components of a product, Its characteristics, effects on human health, as well as its handling precautions. And this is the data sheet for hydrofluorosolic acid or acid-based fluoride. Health hazard highest rating for deadly, Number three, extreme danger, hazardous, And it's listed at a four. It's an oxidizer, an acid, It's explosive And it goes on and on and on: May deteriorate, Shock and heat, Violent chemical change, Unstable. So that's what Rachel Levine, the admiral, says is good for you And something that you need to drink if you're the children. So it wants to cut your children's testicles and penises and breasts off Because it's a program of sterilization and death that they make fancy and cool and fun and are right And they're suppressing what the fluoride does to you and your family, as I showed you last segment. But you can see the ratings on it right there: The highest level danger ratings listed on it for toxicity and poison. Now let's continue. What is this? This is a weapon system. when this happened last Friday or last Saturday, I said: watch, All the other big corporations will now hire the same individual and make Dylan Mulvaney the spokesperson. So now Knight came out and said: man, let's join that And let's immediately, as fast as we can, hire him to do this so that Knight can get on board and everybody else can get on board. So you're just totally overwhelmed with this lunatic colonizing women's spaces, knowing full well- obviously a comedian- that he's getting massive money to play along with the system as a mercenary. They want it as revolting and ridiculous and as mindless as possible. Knight's accused of mocking women. we're going to play the clip in a moment with audio after sponsoring transgender activists to promote sports bra, And we're live right now. I didn't send the clips to the crew but in post. when this is posted to me in that video it's actually over here in the stack. I want to add the photos and videos, Not a Kid Rock blowing up the mud light, but of Austin and H-E-B and the giant piles of the Budweiser products that nobody's buying. We'll add that in post. you're right, we stand against autocrats like you, Joe Biden, and we say no, and we say no to your war, leading a frontal assault on the lies of the new world order. it's Alex Jones cartoon produced by the CIA last year for recruitment, for information, warfare against the American people. imagine the type of people they're trying to hire, schizophrenic criminals. alright, I want to respond to Flagman and then go back to him and give him a response to my response. we live in a complex civilization where we've decided to not use force to settle our differences. now, within that so-called civilization, they hide the aggression with the poison fluoride and the fentanyl, and the transgenderism and the genital mutilations and all of it. but you first have to identify the cult and the globalist and who they are, because it's not like Operation Valkyrie. the Germans tried to kill Hitler a few years before the war ended because they knew they were losing and that Germany would be destroyed and Hitler wouldn't give up. they failed. they could have killed Hitler and ended World War 2 and saved 10 million German lives. please take action now. if you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance. alright, let's go to Drake, who has been holding patiently from the great state of Texas. Drake, thank you for calling hello. Alex, I've been listening for a few years now. I hear what you're saying about the transgender and how it's evil, but when you talk about Blair Wyatt it's kind of confusing, like do you think he looks good or something? no, I'm not being a hypocrite about that. I do not dislike gay people. I do not dislike adults that have decided to be transgender. I'm saying the system running it is going after children and is targeting them to confuse them and try to get them into that. I don't hate adults as long as they don't hurt anybody else and I've been consistent about that. I don't care if it's heterosexual or homosexual or transgender or whatever it is. stay away from children. I've been 100% consistent and Blair Wyatt has been the same and I think Blair is a very smart, nice person. that's what I said. and Blair Wyatt speaks out against the targeting of children. Blair Wyatt came on like 10 years ago when Blair first went public as a transgender person and said she was against the left and that they didn't speak for her. so I'm not judging people. that's what Blair Wyatt has decided to do with that body and that is what adults can do, like women- get breast implants, whatever. I'm not judging Blair Wyatt. they are very consistent. they say: we hate transgender, we want to stop transgender, we want to hurt transgender. no, the transgender movement. there's always been men that thought they were women. there's always been stuff like that- a very small percentage. but now they are making it the national motto, they're pushing it on the kids and it is a weapon system to hurt our children. right, but you still kind of play along with her and call him or her. so it's confusing because I'm like more like Blair Witch. well, I'll say this: look, when you have a giant fat dude, you know, in wrestling competing against women, or a dude that's two feet taller competing against women and swimming. again, Blair Wyatt is not going into women's sports. Blair Wyatt is not attacking women. Blair Wyatt is not doing any of that. and so I've said that when I've interviewed Blair Wyatt- and I think Blair Wyatt is a very nice person, okay, so that's where I'm at, that's where I've always been- and the left wants to say, oh Jones hates transgender people. and then you're like: hey, you're being a hypocrite. you say you hate transgender people but you like Blair Wyatt as a nice person. no, I never said I hated transgender people. oh yeah, not hate them. but I'm saying we can stand against them and reach out to them, but not play along and keep poses on them. Blair Wyatt said to me after the podcast that you know, you've really taught me about the chemicals and what happened to me and it's really helped me understand what happened to me. so I mean, and I'm not sure exactly what happened to Blair Wyatt, but Blair Wyatt really feels like a woman and is not a bad person, and I'm not attacking her because she feels like she's a woman. Alright, we're taking phone calls right now. I'm going to go right back to your calls. some stations don't carry the first five minutes but a lot do. that's when they carry news and so a lot of you might have missed the call. it's very reasonable and I appreciate your call. and said you're really worried about transgenderism and our children, but you've gone on Blair White. it was a very nice transgender male to female person who first came on my show as a listener ten years ago to say that they did not believe in targeting children and gun control and the whole leftist ideology attached to Blair White's decision to be what Blair White is. I said I don't hate anybody, I don't want the targeting of children. I don't want the sexualization of children by Rachel Levine. I don't want them covering up fluoride in the water for the children. there's an evil agenda that is behind pushing this to children and Caitlyn Jenner and all the rest of it. they're doing far worse. the first step behind closed doors. they're hypocrites, and so that's where I'm at. I agree we are who we really are, born as we should accept what God did. the system is trying to confuse that confuse children. but the people that have been sucked in by this- that's why it's gone from one in a thousand being transgender fifty years ago to one in ten in San Francisco with the kids- is because they're confusing them. they ask: little boys, do you like little boys or little girls? I like little boys more. little boys want to play with little boys- oh, you're gay. or little girls: you like little girls, you're a lesbian. but at the same time I catch myself sometimes driving in the car just thinking about the most horrible thoughts about my enemies, the horrible things I want to do to them, and God says that's not Christ-like. defeat them, stop them and do that, but don't get on their level, don't give them the hate back. love is more powerful, there's a stronger force, and so that's what it comes down to. I mean I've gone on Blair White's show and explained how they put chemicals in the water to confuse kids and try to target them when they're little to break them up with their families and how that's wrong. and then Blair White agrees: I'm reaching out to that whole audience. and then you read all these transgender people in the comments going: oh, I see why they don't like Alex. he's actually nice. yeah, I do think they're doing this to us. blah, blah, blah. I don't feel that way either. no, no, no, no. there's no time for that, that type of mentality and behaviour, with all the cuckery going on and the political correctness and people bending the knee to the woke mob and the totalitarian New World Order regimes on both sides in the uni-party. do not be deceived. the two party system is absolutely against you and your family. you can identify very quickly who's truly: America first, pro-humanity, pro-Christ, pro-God, that believes in the traditional values that got humanity to this point here in the future, in 2023, which, by the way, when you take a look at the radical New World Order agenda, whether it's coming from the left, whether it's coming from the right, it is all anti-Christ, demonic, satanic in origin and it's always an attack on God himself and those that are made in the image of God, which is us humanity. and when you speak about the transgender movement, let me just make a pretty obvious point to the viewers right now is that trans people just don't exist. you know, this is my view, because you know if trans people have gender dysphoria and it's a mental illness, let me just put it out there. it's just a figment in their imagination. it's an alternate reality that these people find themselves living in and, at the end of the day, they're just homosexuals or lesbians, which is against God as well. but you take a look at these woke tards like Dylan Mulvaney. alright, you got. it's quite the opposite. but what I'll say is this- and I don't know if the crew, I'm pretty sure they can: if you guys can pull up a picture of Baphomet, Baphomet with little children around him, right, the depiction of Lucifer, half beast, half man, half woman, always with little kids sitting around looking up to Baphomet. this has been a depiction of Satan for centuries. and you want to talk about the so-called trans movement? I'll just use the term for now. I don't believe trans people exist at all. and there it is right there, always with little kids sitting at the side, looking up, half beast, half man, half female, and you can argue, maybe part angel as well, with the wings on the back, because Lucifer is a fallen angel as well. what is this really? I know it's easy to make fun of Dylan Mulvaney because he's mentally ill, mentally unstable, but I think the darker and more serious issue is the state of the culture, with the total depravity right now going on, with the so-called LGBTQ movement waving that damn flag around, hijacked the rainbow, which belongs to God, by the way. it just seems like these people steal everything.