I am indebted to Janice G. Raymond for her pioneering book, The TranssexualEmpire (1994, published 1979). Her work is the foundation on whichfeminist criticism of transgenderism has been built, and continues to inspireradical feminist thought. I am grateful to all those friends who have read andcommented upon chapters of this book: Lorene Gottschalk, Lynne Harne,Kathy Chambers, Ruth Margerison. Lorene Gottschalk’s contribution wasparticularly valuable. She was much involved in the initial stages of this pro-ject and contributed to the writing of half of the chapters, and she conductedthe three interviews that have been so important to Chapters 3 and 4. I amgrateful, too, to the new wave of radical feminism both online and offline.Radical feminist bloggers such as Gallus Mag from ‘GenderTrender’ (n.d.a)and Dirt from ‘Dirt from Dirt’, among others, have provided invaluable fac-tual material, references and ideas on their blogs, without which it wouldhave been harder to write this book. Indeed, over the period that this bookhas been incubating, radical feminist bloggers strengthened and clarifi ed myanalysis. Radical feminist activists have provided venues at which I have beenable to test out my thinking, these being the two very successful radicalfeminist conferences in London – Rad Fem 2012 and Rad Fem 2013. Iowe much to these brave women. I salute the courage and tenacity of thoseradical feminists who are making it possible for radical feminists to   furthering radical feminist analysis. I intend this book as a contribution to the considerable struggle that is presently taking place between mainly male transgender activists and radical feminists over who has the right todefi ne what a woman is: women, or men who fantasise about being women.I am thankful for the support I continue to receive from the University ofMelbourne, which has provided a crucible over the last two decades in whichto develop my ideas, research and write.This book will explore the harms created by the ideology and practice oftransgenderism, a phenomenon that developed in the mid to late twentiethcentury. Transgenderism has only been an accepted disorder for which thetreatment of choice is the administration of hormones, and perhaps ampu-tation or other surgery, for a comparatively short time. Many US physicianscontested the idea of such treatments for the condition until the 1970s, andsome still do (Meyerowitz, 2002 ). In the 1990s, partly as a result of the potentialfor networking created by the Internet, a political movement of transgenderactivism was created to campaign for transgender ‘rights’. Considerable social,political and legal changes are occurring in response, and there is increasingacceptance by governments and many other organisations and actors of thelegitimacy of such rights. These changes have ramifi cations for lesbian andgay existence and the lesbian and gay community; for the health and lifechances of transgenders themselves; for the possibilities of women’s equality;for organisations, workplaces, services and the law. There is now a copiousliterature on transgenderism, on its history, treatment, theory and practice.But this literature is generally positive towards the phenomenon, seeing trans-genders as constituting an essential category of persons that has been deniedrights and needs recognition. Some of this literature makes the claim thattransgenderism is transgressive and part of a revolutionary process of socialchange, because it destabilises the ‘gender binary’.This book takes a quite diff erent approach. It argues, from a feminist per-spective, that transgenderism is but one way in which ‘gender’ hurts peopleand societies. Transgenderism depends for its very existence on the idea thatthere is an ‘essence’ of gender, a psychology and pattern of behaviour, whichis suited to persons with particular bodies and identities. This is the oppositeof the feminist view, which is that the idea of gender is the foundation ofthe political system of male domination. ‘Gender’, in traditional patriarchalthinking, ascribes skirts, high heels and a love of unpaid domestic labour tothose with female biology, and comfortable clothing, enterprise and initiative to those with male biology. In the practice of transgenderism, traditionalgender is seen to lose its sense of direction and end up in the minds and bod-ies of persons with inappropriate body parts that need to be corrected. Butwithout ‘gender’, transgenderism could not exist. From a critical, feministpoint of view, when transgender rights are inscribed into law and adopted byinstitutions, they instantiate ideas that are harmful to women’s equality andgive authority to outdated notions of essential diff erences between the sexes.Transgenderism is indeed transgressive, but of women’s rights rather than anoppressive social system.This book is necessary now because the practice of transgendering adultsand children has been normalised in Western cultures but very little critiqueexists. There is evidence of an increasing criticism of the practice both fromwithin a developing new wave of online feminism and from within the med-ical profession, but this is met with considerable resistance from transgenderactivists. Critics are labelled ‘transphobic’, subjected to Internet campaigns ofvilifi cation, and, in some cases, there are attempts by transgender activists toexpel such insubordinate persons from their jobs or threaten their reputa-tions. Nonetheless, the understanding of transgenderism is at a tipping pointand there is evidence of a desire to rethink approaches to the practice. Forinstance, a conference was organised by the Royal College of Psychiatrists’Gay and Lesbian Special Interest Group for 20 May 2011 in London, entitled‘Transgender: Time to Change’, which might have provided a platform forcritical voices. Unfortunately, it was cancelled because of pressure from trans-gender lobbyists (Green, 2011 ).There are attempts to censor all expressions of dissent towards malestreamtransgender ideology and to prohibit speaking platforms to those seen asheretics. This campaign against free speech is particularly directed against theburgeoning of an online radical feminist movement that is incisively critical oftransgenderism. This includes feminists who operate under their own namesand a far greater number who use pseudonyms, keenly aware of the severeharassment they face if their identities are revealed. These include Gallus Magfrom GenderTrender (GenderTrender, n.d.b), and Dirt from the blog, TheDirt from Dirt, Change your World, Not your Body (Dirt from Dirt, n.d.),and many other critical voices.An indication of the campaign being waged against feminist critics bytransgender activists is the way that I have been prohibited from speakingnot just on this issue, but on any issue at all. I was disinvited from a majorfeminist conference, ‘Feminism in London’ in November 2011, which, subse-quently, did not take place because of concerns about off ending transgenders.I was banned from speaking at a feminist conference in July 2012 in London,which had to take place at a secret venue, after a campaign of vilifi cation bytransgender activists (Jeff reys, 2012a ). But this suppression of debate cannot continue indefi nitely, since there is mounting interest in airing the contro-versy more publicly. Indeed, in early 2013, the issue exploded into publicview as a result of an article in the Observer newspaper in the UK by col-umnist Julie Burchill, which was critical of the harassment of her colleagueSuzanne Moore by transgender activists (Young, 2013 ). Burchill’s piece wascensored and removed from the website, only to be posted on many otherwebsites sympathetic to her critique. Transgenderism was in the public eyeand this time it was clear the practice was no longer beyond dispute. Thisbook, therefore, is timely.The idea and practices of gender have the potential to hurt many. Intransgenderism the hurt can take several forms. People who feel that their‘gender’ does not fi t their bodies may suff er psychological hurts, and theythen get physically ‘hurt’ by the medical profession that diagnoses and treatsthem. They are further hurt after treatment when they fi nd themselves mar-ginalised and excluded, and some may even consider that they have made amistake that cannot be easily rectifi ed. This book goes further than other lit-erature on the topic, by exploring the wider social and political context andimplications of the phenomenon of transgenderism. It looks at others whoare hurt too, such as the wives who fi nd their husbands now consider them-selves to be women; lesbian partners whose lesbianism is thrown into doubtwhen their girlfriends become ‘men’; and the mothers who grieve for theirlost daughters or sons. All these categories of persons who are hurt by trans-genderism are women, and this is the case whether the aspirants are male orfemale. Transgenderism hurts lesbian communities, which are fractured overthe entryism of men who transgender, and the disappearance of their mem-bers to the chemically and surgically constructed heterosexuality that trans-genderism off ers to increasing numbers of lesbians. The feminist movement,too, is harmed as transgender activists and theorists savagely criticise feminismand seek to destroy women-only spaces and services by their entryism. Thesuccess of the destabilising campaigns against feminism and the women-onlyprinciple depends upon confusion about what ‘gender’ means.Gender and women’s equalityTransgenderism cannot exist without a notion of essential ‘gender’. Feministcritics argue that the concept of ‘gender identity’ is founded upon stereo-types of gender, and, in international law, gender stereotypes are recognisedas being in contradiction to the interests of women (Hausman, 1995 ; Jeff reys, ; Raymond, 1994 ). The United Nations Convention on the Eliminationof all Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) (1979) was drawnup before the language of gender and the idea of ‘gender identity’ came todominate international law discourse and to stand in for women as a sex category. It spoke instead of ‘stereotyped roles’ and recognised these stereo-types as the basis for discrimination against women. Article 5 says that StatesParties should takeall appropriate measures [to] modify the social and cultural patterns ofconduct of men and women, with a view to achieving the eliminationof prejudice and customary and all other practices which are based onthe idea of the inferiority or the superiority of either of the sexes or onstereotyped roles for men and women.(CEDAW, 1979 : Article 5)The idea of ‘gender identity’ relies on stereotypes for its meaning and is indirect confl ict with the understanding in CEDAW that such stereotypes areprofoundly harmful to women.The term ‘gender’ itself is problematic. It was used in a sense thatwas not simply about grammar by sexologists – the scientists of sex such asJohn Money in the 1950s and 1960s – who were involved in normalisingintersex infants. They used the term to mean the behavioural characteristicsthey considered most appropriate for persons of one or other biological sex.They applied the concept of gender when deciding upon the sex categoryinto which those infants who did not have clear physical indications of onebiological sex or another should be placed (Hausman, 1995 ). Their purposewas not progressive. These were conservative men who believed that thereshould be clear diff erences between the sexes and sought to create distinctsex categories through their projects of social engineering. Unfortunately, theterm was adopted by some feminist theorists in the 1970s, and by the lates was commonly used in academic feminism to indicate the diff erencebetween biological sex and those characteristics that derived from politicsand not biology, which they called ‘gender’ (Haig, 2004 ).Before the term ‘gender’ was adopted, the term more usually used todescribe these socially constructed characteristics was ‘sex roles’. The word‘role’ connotes a social construction and was not susceptible to the degen-eration that has afflicted the term ‘gender’ and enabled it to be wielded soeff ectively by transgender activists. As the term ‘gender’ was adopted moreextensively by feminists, its meaning was transformed to mean not just thesocially constructed behaviour associated with biological sex, but the systemof male power and women’s subordination itself, which became known asthe ‘gender hierarchy’ or ‘gender order’ (Connell, 2005 ; Mackinnon, 1989 ).Gradually, older terms to describe this system, such as male domination, sexclass and sex caste went out of fashion, with the eff ect that direct identifi ca-tion of the agents responsible for the subordination of women – men – couldno longer be named. Gender, as a euphemism, disappeared men as agents in male violence against women, which is now commonly referred to as ‘genderviolence’. Increasingly, the term ‘gender’ is used, in official forms and legisla-tion, for instance, to stand in for the term ‘sex’ as if ‘gender’ itself is biological,and this usage has overwhelmed the feminist understanding of gender.Sex casteIn this book I have chosen to use the term ‘sex caste’ to describe the polit-ical system in which women are subordinated to men on the basis of theirbiology. Feminists have disagreed over whether women’s condition of sub-ordination is best referred to in terms of ‘caste’ or ‘class’. Those who use theconcept of women as a ‘sex class’, such as Kate Millett, are referencing theirexperience in left-wing politics and see the idea of‘class’ as off ering thepossibility of revolution (Millett, 1972 ). Millett did, however, use the termcaste as well, speaking of women’s ‘sexual caste system’ (Millett, 1972 : 275). Ifwomen are in a subordinate class in relation to men, as the working class is inrelation to the bourgeoisie, then women’s revolution can be conceptualisedas overthrowing the power of men in such a way that sex class ceases to havemeaning and will disappear as a meaningful category (Wittig, 1992 ). It alsoimplies, as in left theory, that women’s revolution requires the recognition bywomen of their ‘sex’ class status as the basis for political action. Nonetheless,the term sex class can be problematic because it implies that women couldmove out of their ‘class’, in the same way that individual working class peoplecould change their class position by becoming embourgeoised. The term‘caste’, on the other hand, is useful for this book because it encapsulates theway in which women are placed into a subordinate caste status for their life-time (see Burris, 1973 ). Women may change their economic class status withupward mobility, but they remain women unless they elect to transgenderand claim membership in the superior sex caste. Both of these terms can beuseful in articulating the condition of women, but the term ‘caste’ off ers aparticular advantage in relation to studying transgenderism. The very exist-ence of transgenderism on the part of women demonstrates the stickinessof caste subordination. The marks of caste remain attached to females unlessthey claim that they are really ‘men’, and only a very signifi cant social trans-formation will enable change in this respect.Postmodern and queer theorists share with transgender theorists the ideathat ‘gender’ is a moveable feast that can be moved into and out of, swappedand so forth. Gender, used in this sense, disappears the fi xedness of sex, the bio-logical basis that underlies the relegation of females to their sex caste. Femaleinfants are identifi ed by biology at birth and placed into a female sex caste,which apportions them lifelong inferior status. The preference for biologic-ally male children and the femicide of female infants, for instance, which has created a great inequality in the sex ratio in India and other countries, is basedon sex and not ‘gender’. Female foetuses are aborted and female infants arekilled because of sex, not ‘gender’ discrimination (Pande, 2006 ). Foetuses donot have ‘gender’ or ‘gender identity’, because the forces of a woman-hatingculture have not had a chance to aff ect the way they understand themselves.The inferior sex caste status of women is assigned with reference to their biol-ogy, and it is through their biology that their subordination is enforced andmaintained through rape, impregnation and forced childbearing. Women donot pass in and out of wearing ‘women’s’ clothing, as cross-dressers may do,indeed they may reject such clothing as inferiorising, but still suff er violenceand discrimination as women. Though individual women may be successful inroles more usually arrogated to men, they are likely to be treated as interlopersand receive sexual harassment, as happened to the Australian Prime MinisterJulia Gillard (Summers, 2013 ). Her caste status was continually thrown in herface by hostile male commentators, politicians and cartoonists. Women do notdecide at some time in adulthood that they would like other people to under-stand them to be women, because being a woman is not an ‘identity’. Women’sexperience does not resemble that of men who adopt the ‘gender identity’ ofbeing female or being women in any respect. The idea of ‘gender identity’disappears biology and all the experiences that those with female biology haveof being reared in a caste system based on sex. Only one book-length critiqueof transgenderism was written in second wave feminism, Janice Raymond’sdeservedly well-known tour de force, The Transsexual Empire (1994, pub-lished 1979). She usefully sums up the diff erence between feminist under-standings of women and those of men who transgender thus:We know that we are women who are born with female chromosomesand anatomy, and that whether or not we were socialized to be so-callednormal women, patriarchy has treated and will treat us like women.Transsexuals have not had this same history. No man can have the his-tory of being born and located in this culture as a woman. He can havethe history of wishing to be a woman and of acting like a woman, but thisgender experience is that of a transsexual, not of a woman. Surgery mayconfer the artifacts of outward and inward female organs but it cannotconfer the history of being born a woman in this society.(Raymond, 1994 : 114) (emphasis in original)Are women a fi gment of men’s imagination?Men have been adjudicating on what women are, and how they shouldbehave, for millennia through the institutions of social control such as religion, the medical profession, psychoanalysis, the sex industry (Millett, ). Feminists have fought to remove the defi nition of what a womanis from these masculine institutions and develop their own understand-ings. Claims to the ‘right’ to self defi ne ‘gender’, subject womanhood tomen’s power to defi ne once again. The major task of feminist theory was tobring women out from under the weight of men’s defi nitions and theories.Feminists developed what has been called ‘feminist standpoint theory’ todescribe a new form of knowledge about women, that which is formed outof women’s experience as an oppressed group and refi ned through struggleand collective process (Harding (ed.), 2004 ). The very basis of feminism isthis declaration of independence, the rejection of men’s ‘knowledge’ aboutwomen and the privileging of our own. Men’s ideas about what womenare have been formed from their ruling caste position, and have assignedwomen characteristics that would most advantage their masters, as well asjustify men’s rule over them. They do not represent ‘truth’ but have beenpromoted as if they were, with the backing of science and patriarchal viewsof biology. It is remarkable, therefore, that men’s views of what women are,in the form of transgender ideology, have gained any traction whatsoeverin any branch of feminist theory. But, as I shall explain in Chapter 2 ontransgenderism and feminism, they have, to the point where men who havetransgendered are invited as keynote speakers to conferences on women’sexperience.Beyond all else, transgenderism on the part of men can be seen as aruthless appropriation of women’s experience and existence. The men whoclaim womanhood do not have any experience of being women, and thusshould not have the right to speak as ‘women’. Indeed, these men are oftenvery conservative and hypermasculine. The American transgender helicop-ter pilot, Bob Tur, explains this point well:Well actually true transgenders do hypermasculine things. Kristin Beckthe Navy Seal is not atypical of what’s going on. There are a lot of air-line pilots, a lot of military pilots. I’ve known all kinds of pilots, I’veknown spies, I’ve done quasi-military fl ights overseas. So, um, its not, itsnot atypical. It’s a fairly standard thing. The typical transgender tends tobe 30 IQ points above average, they tend to be left handed, they tendto be fairly conservative, they’ve been married, have children. And they,you know, in some cases have hypermasculine traits.(Tur, 2013 )Tur’s interesting confessions suggest that there is nothing progressive aboutmen’s fantasies of being women, quite the reverse.The meaning of the term transgender is constantly being extended. Beforethe 1990s, the term used to refer to someone who wanted to change their‘sex’ was transsexual. In the 1990s the term transgender was commonlyadopted to refer to those persons who did not want to go so far as havingsurgery for the removal of their secondary sexual characteristics but wantedto change their ‘gender’, generally understood as appearance markers such asclothing. By the late 1990s, the term transsexualism was falling out of favour,and the term transgenderism had been adopted in the academy and in out-reach services to refer to those would previously have been considered trans-sexuals, to the new category who wished to change ‘gender’ without surgery,and even to effeminate gay men and cross-dressers. It has also transmogrifi edinto a very general term indeed, to include occasional cross-dressers or eventhose who are seen as not having a ‘gender’. The development of this term,and its fast change in meaning, has been so profound as to allow arguments bysome transactivists that homosexuals are themselves simply a subcategory oftransgenders (Whittle et al ., 2007 : 14). In the last decade the term transgenderhas been adopted into policy documents and into the law.Transgenderism has become an umbrella term for a great variety of per-sons who are uncomfortable with traditional gender roles, but who, with-out a feminist analysis that gender itself is the problem, seek to act out theirdiscomfort through adopting elements of the opposite gender stereotype.The increasing vagueness of the category has in no way impeded the swiftadoption of the term transgender, and the idea of the ‘right’ of transgendersto exercise their ‘gender expression’, within state legislatures and regionalforums such as the European Union. All the forms in which the term isused depend upon the idea of an essential gender that can be played with,or ‘transed’, but not dispensed with, and so all forms of transgenderism areequally problematic from the point of view of feminist theorists. They allgive oxygen to a concept, gender, which forms the foundation and justifi ca-tion for the subordination of women. This book will seek to keep up withall the transmogrifi cations of transgenderism, while pointing out the harmsthat issue from it.The physical transformations created by hormones and surgery do notchange the biological sex of the persons upon whom they are visited. For thisreason, in this volume, persons of the male sex who transgender are referredto as men who transgender, or male-bodied transgenders, and those of thefemale sex as women who transgender, or female-bodied transgenders, inorder to indicate their biological sex. The more common terms male-to-female (MTF) and female-to-male (FTM) are not used here because they givethe mistaken impression that sex can be changed when, in fact, it cannot. Transgenderism is not connected with intersexuality. Persons who areintersex are born with ‘a reproductive or sexual anatomy that doesn’t seemto fi t the typical defi nitions of female or male’ (ISNA, n.d.). Intersex activistsdo not campaign for sex-reassignment surgery, and are often incisively criticalof it, on the grounds that it has been traditionally employed to cut intersexinfants up to fi t one sex caste category or another, with harmful eff ects ontheir functioning (Dreger, 1998 ). Some transgender online personalities pro-claim that they are intersex to make out that they are not biologically male,but intersexuality and transgenderism are diff erent phenomena (ISNA, n.d.).Intersexuality has a biological basis, whereas this book will argue that ‘genderidentity’ is a mental condition.PronounsPronoun use is a great concern of persons who transgender. They wish otherpeople, including their wives, partners and children, to call them by theirnew, adopted pronouns. The disagreement over pronoun use is a political one.The masculine pronoun may no longer, acceptably, be used as if it were gen-eric and included women, for instance. I have chosen to use pronouns thatindicate the biological sex of the persons whose work is discussed here for anumber of reasons. The is that the biological sex of transgender personsdoes not change and use of the pronoun of origin indicates this. This is pol-itically important, since it is useful for feminists to know the biological sexof those who claim to be women and promote prejudicial versions of whatconstitutes womanhood. Also, use by men of feminine pronouns conceals themasculine privilege bestowed upon them by virtue of having been placed inand brought up in the male sex caste. If men are addressed as ‘she’, then all thisprivilege, which aff ects their speaking position and may be crucial to theirchoice to be ‘women’ in the place, is disappeared.Another reason for adherence to pronouns that indicate biology is that,as a feminist, I consider the female pronoun to be an honorifi c, a term thatconveys respect. Respect is due to women as members of a sex caste that havesurvived subordination and deserve to be addressed with honour. Men whotransgender cannot occupy such a position. This argument is used by femalepartners of men who transgender in Chapter 4 . They often fi nd it impossibleto accept that their husbands have become women, and cannot use pronounsfor them that they understand to be specifi c to their own experience aswomen. As this book will argue, the perspectives of wives and female part-ners are important and should be respected. Also, sticking to the pronouns oforigin avoids the difficulty of adjudicating on which men should be referredto as female, those who simply occasionally cross-dress, or those who takehormones, or those who undertake sex-reassignment surgery. Creating such distinctions is an odious task, and since they all retain male biology it is morestraightforward to retain pronouns that indicate their sex. Also, persons whoregret transgendering may decide upon a return to their pronouns of origin,or they may in some cases go back and forth a number of times with complexchanges of pronoun at each turn. Use of the pronouns of origin avoids theneed for potentially numerous changes over time.The two opening chapters of the book show how the idea of transgender-ism developed and was able to gain traction from the mid-twentieth centuryonwards. Chapter 1 examines the construction of transgenderism by medicalspecialisms such as endocrinology, surgery and psychology. Chapter 2 ana-lyses the factors that have enabled swathes of the feminist and lesbian andgay movements to support transgender rights, such as the development ofqueer and postmodern theory, which promoted the idea that there was reallyno such thing as ‘woman’ and that playing with and switching ‘gender’ wasa transgressive practice. The third chapter ‘Doing transgender: really hurting’examines the most immediately harmful impact of the construction of trans-genderism. It will analyse the literature on the psychological and physicaleff ects of transgender surgery and long-term hormone use on transgendersthemselves. It will describe the harmful practices involved in transgenderpractice from breast binding to genital surgery, and repeated facial surgeries,and who profi ts from them.The following chapters examine the social, political and legal eff ects ofthe construction of the phenomenon. Two chapters look at the harms to thewives, girlfriends and lesbian partners of transgenders, whose lives are sub-stantially aff ected when their partners transition. Increasingly, women whosehusbands have transgendered are speaking out and engaging in resistance. Amajority of men who transgender (Lawrence, 2004 ) have histories of cross-dressing for sexual excitement, and these men are frequently married andhave children before they make the decision to go further. The wives suff erfrom having their identities challenged by husbands who claim to be lesbiansand may require their female partners to identify as lesbians too. Similarly,the lesbian partners of women who transgender have to redefi ne themselvesas heterosexual women if they wish to remain in relationships with womenwho now see themselves as heterosexual men. In both cases, non-trans part-ners fi nd themselves taking on considerable amounts of unpaid labour tosupport their trans partners, such as the need to be more feminine to help alesbian partner feel more masculine. Partners have to provide unpaid nursingservices, perform injections, arrange appointments, take their partners shop-ping, save up and pay for the surgeries. They have to manage exposure, or the need to, as they put it, remain in the closet about their partners’ practice. Theyreceive little support or acknowledgement for the psychological harm theyendure, which some psychologists are now likening to post-traumatic stress.Another chapter details a very worrying eff ect of transgender activism andthe lobbying of the medical profession, the transgendering of children.The fi nal two chapters examine the practical eff ects of the campaign fortransgender rights for all women, including entry of men who transgenderinto women’s toilets and prisons, and into women’s spaces such as domesticviolence refuges. Chapter 7, entitled ‘A clash of rights’ examines the way in which the demand for recognition in law of the ‘right’ to gender and to ‘gender expression’ constitutes a clash with the rights of women. This chapter willexplore the ways in which the law is being changed in Western countries toaccommodate ‘gender rights’ and the implications of these changes. One ofthe primary aims of transgender activist groups is to enable men who trans-gender to access ‘gendered spaces’ such as women’s festivals, women’s refuges,sexual violence services, women’s sheltered housing, toilets and prisons. Thesespaces have been set up to service the interests of women as a subordin-ate group, to allow for social and political organisation separate from malecontrol, for privacy and security from men’s violence. The determination toenter these spaces by men who consider themselves transgender has led toconsiderable stress within women’s communities. In some cases this has ledto the suspension of women’s festivals or abandonment of attempts to createwomen’s centres, in ways that are very problematic for the communities ofwomen that they were intended to serve.There is very little critical literature about transgenderism that could formthe foundation for this book. Since Janice Raymond’s groundbreaking TheTranssexual Empire in 1979, there has been an almost complete absence offeminist critical work, amid an avalanche of research and writing that takesa positive, if not celebratory, approach to the topic. For this reason it hasbeen necessary to read the celebratory or supportive literature that does exist‘against the grain’, that is to extract the copious evidence of the harm oftransgenderism that is plain even in that which purports to promote the prac-tice. As well as reading against the grain, I have used analogies in two chapters,and three key interviews carried out by Lorene Gottschalk, in order to revealwhat the academic and popular literature does not.In two chapters I have used analogies to show similarities between trans-genderism and either homosexuality or eugenics, with the objective of dem-onstrating the harms amid a desert of any form of criticism. For the fi rstchapter on the historical and sexological construction of transgenderism, I found it very helpful to make an analogy with the construction of homo-sexuality as a category. In the absence of critical approaches to the construc-tion of transgenderism in academic or popular literature, this off ered a usefulway in, especially since the two practices are very connected in obvious ways.Similarly, I used an analogy in the chapter on the transgendering of chil-dren, likening it to the practice of sexual surgeries that were carried out bythose inspired by the ideas of eugenics, in order to highlight the harm in theabsence of any critical literature.I had to develop my criticism of transgender theory without any help-ful pointers from other critical literature because published material of thiskind does not exist. But the growing critical commentary by online radicalfeminists has been very useful in this respect. I am grateful to my sisters bothfor the factual information they provide on websites and blogs, and for theirtheoretical contributions. It is about time that academic feminism caught upwith the bloggers of the new wave of radical feminism and produced morecritical writing and research.For Chapter 3, which deals with the harms of transgenderism to transgen-ders themselves, two interviews were conducted. There is very little criticalliterature about the process of transgendering from those who have gonethrough it, because the problem of transgender regret, in which men andwomen speak and write about de-transitioning back to their original sexbecause of their profound dissatisfaction, has only recently been moving intothe public domain. Two interviews were conducted for this book with per-sons who have de-transitioned – a man, Walt Heyer, and a woman, HeathRussell.Another interview was also conducted to provide fi rst-hand evidence ofthe harms of men’s practice of transgenderism to their wives. Collections ofthe accounts of their experience by wives and mothers of transgenders, andindividual biographies by women whose husbands and male partners havetransgendered, though not intended to be critical of the practice nonethelesscontain a great deal of material that demonstrates the ways in which it hurtsthem severely. I have used this material here. There is one biography of a wifewho is unequivocally critical and this has been very useful (Benvenuto, 2012 ).The interview with the female partner of a man who has transgendered washelpful in gaining a picture of her experience from someone with a criticaleye and a developed critique of the phenomenon. All three interviewees usedin this book were sourced through the online networks that are beginning toform of those critical of the practice. They have been a vital resource in theabsence of critical literature.There is beginning to be interesting research carried out on women whotransgender and their partners by feminist academics, which has been usefulto Chapter 5 of this book (Brown, 2007 , 2009 , 2010 ; Pfeff er, 2008 , 2010 ). This work does not state that it takes a critical approach and, indeed, evinces nonegative views regarding the practice of transgenderism itself, but does off ermost useful information towards understanding the harmful impact of thetransgendering of lesbians on their female partners. It may be that this issue isof concern to feminist and lesbian feminist academics because it is happeningin their communities and is close to home.In relation to the law on transgender rights, I discovered no critical litera-ture and no literature that off ered caveats as to the potential clash with wom-en’s rights. In this area much work needs to be done. There is also no literatureon the impact of transgender inclusion in women’s services and spaces, apartfrom that of Lorene Gottschalk, which is used in Chapter 8 . There is a need for a great deal more research in these areas. To supplement the scanty criticalliterature that exists on several of the themes in the book, I have had recourseto the websites and blogs of transgender activists themselves, which have beena rich source for showing the rapid development of the transgender rightsmovement and some of its more bizarre outer reaches.The importance of social constructionTo place all of these issues in context, it is necessary to examine how thephenomenon of transgenderism was constructed, historically and politically.This is the task of Chapter 1 . I am very aware that new generations of fem-inist, lesbian and gay activists and thinkers may fi nd the idea of social con-struction difficult to accept. The idea that homosexuality and transgenderismare innate has become quite dominant today, whereas at the time of secondwave feminism, the understanding that gender and sexuality were sociallyconstructed was a commonplace. This book is premised on the understandingthat transgenderism is a social construct, and for this reason I have chosen todeal with the issue of social construction in some detail.This book argues that transgenderism is a social construction of the mid tolate twentieth century. The concept of ‘transgenderism’ was, as the anthro-pologist David Valentine puts it, ‘institutionalised’ in the 1990s (Valentine, ). Since that time, a new transgender history has been created to supportthe ideas and practices of transgender activists. This new history states thatthere have always been people who were essentially ‘transgenders’, through-out history (Prosser, 1998 ; Stryker, 2008 ). Transgender persons, these activ-ists say, were aided in the twentieth century by the development of medicalspecialisms that enabled them to ‘come out’ of the transgender closet andrealise their need to change sex. This chapter will contest this version of his-tory, a history that only makes sense if transgenderism is understood to bebased upon an essential quality, that which some sexologists call the ‘femin-ine essence’ idea (Dreger, 2008). If that premise is rejected, it is necessary toexplain how the phenomenon of transgenderism has come about, and thischapter will attempt this task. I will argue that, far from being a constant inhistory and across cultures, transgenderism is a quite recent construction. Thischapter will focus on men who transgender because the ideology and prac-tices of transgenderism were invented by men. While women formed a smallminority of those seeking to transgender before the 1990s, they have becomean increasing proportion since that time, and have sought to slot themselvesinto a set of ideas constructed by male scientists of sex, and the men whowere the main demanders of sex reassignment (Jeff reys, 2003 ). The diff er-ences between men and women’s transgender behaviour will be consideredin detail in a later chapter.The term transsexual was coined in the 1950s to describe those personswho wished to change their sex, and popularised by the endocrinologistHarry Benjamin in his book, The Transsexual Phenomenon (1966). The termtransgender was coined by the male – and according to his protestations, het-erosexual – cross-dresser Virginia Prince, who sought to distinguish himselffrom those identifi ed as transsexuals, and to create a more acceptable face fora practice previously understood as a ‘paraphilia’ – a form of sexual fetishism(Prince, 2005b ). Prince’s adoption of the term was part of what I will callhere the ‘move to gender’, in which both cross-dressing and transsexual-ism came to be understood as expressions of an internal or essential gender,rather than simply being hobbies carried out for sexual excitement. The term‘transgender’ was then normalised through the queer politics of the 1990s,when it was adopted to convey a wide meaning encompassing all those whowere seen as engaging in behaviour most usually allotted to the oppositesex, from butch lesbians to cross-dressing, gay, prostituted men. Presently, theterm transgender is used in common parlance to refer to those who wouldonce have been called ‘transsexual’, a word that is no longer much in use. Thischapter will seek to explain why this most important change in terminologyhas taken place. The term transgender is used in this book in the way it ismost commonly used in the present, to refer to those who consider them-selves to have a ‘gender identity’ that diff ers from what, in male-supremacistsocieties, is associated with their biological sex.The construction of the homosexualThe idea that transgenderism is socially constructed will be controversial. Intransgender ideology, persons who transgender are seen as being in possessionof an ‘essence’ – consisting of clothing or habits – of the ‘gender’ more usuallyassociated with the opposite sex. This essence is understood to be the resulteither of an accident of biology, or as the product of some other mysteriousand not usually identifi able process, and therefore ‘natural’. For instance, in herbook Second Skins , Jay Prosser specifi cally rejects the constructionist approach,arguing that transgender persons existed prior to and outside the forces of con-struction that I shall outline here (Prosser, 1998 ). Accusations of ‘transphobia’and ‘transmisogyny’ are regularly directed at anyone who questions the essen-tialist discourse that such transgender activists subscribe to. But, interestingly,similar accusations of ‘homophobia’ were not, and are not, directed at thoselesbian and gay historians and researchers who argue that the ‘homosexual’ is asocial construction. The idea that the homosexual is not someone innately des-tined to be sexually attracted to their own sex is also controversial in large partsof the gay community, but has not led to such vitriol and invective. The inven-tion of the homosexual is instructive in demonstrating how the ‘transgender’also came to exist, because the idea that there is such an entity as a transgenderperson follows the script for the construction of the concept of the ‘homosex-ual’ by male sexologists, or scientists of sex, in the nineteenth century. The construction of transgenderismin the late twentieth century resem-bles, in important respects, the construction of the homosexual. The 1960sand 1970s were the glory days of social constructionism in the social sciences.Lesbian and gay theorists and historians, educated in the values of those times,argued that the idea of the homosexual, as a particular kind of person whowas destined by a congenital abnormality to be exclusively attracted to othersof the same sex, was in fact a social construction (Mackintosh, 1968 ; Weeks, ). The social constructionist approach was not without its critics in les-bian and gay academia. There were some who argued that the constructionof homosexuality owed something to biology as well as to culture (Dynes, ). Some of the constructionists themselves recognised that individ-ual homosexuals did not experience their identities as socially constructed,so there must be some recognition in social constructionist theory of thecogency of personal experience (Epstein, 1992 ). But for most lesbian andgay academics it was well understood that history, culture and politics con-structed the homosexual.There are disagreements as to when this construction primarily tookplace: in the late seventeenth century, when homosexual men gathered inMolly houses and clubs in London, as Mary Mackintosh ( 1968 ) argued; orin the nineteenth century, as Michel Foucault ( 1978 ) argued. However, itis clear that it was in the nineteenth century that signifi cant social institu-tions became involved in the construction of homosexuals as a distinct cat-egory of persons. The homosexual was constructed, in this understanding,from two main sources, the law and medicine, both of which, I will arguehere, have been fundamentally important to the construction of trans-genderism too. Lesbian and gay scholars explain that in the early part ofthe nineteenth century sexual behaviour was still regulated by the churchcourts (Weeks, 1977 ). There was no concept of the homosexual as such,but particular sexual practices were seen to be unacceptable, notably, inthis case, sodomy. As church courts went into desuetude, the criminal lawtook over as a regulator of correct sexual practice. Thus, in the late nine-teenth century in the UK, the Criminal Law Amendment Act of 1885 waspromulgated, which specifi cally made homosexual male sexual behaviourillegal. Under this legislation, Oscar Wilde was prosecuted in the 1890s,and his trial was widely publicised. All of this helped to crystallise the ideaof the homosexual. In the same period the science of sexology took overfrom religion to provide prescriptions of acceptable and unacceptable sex-ual behaviour.The detailed articulation within sociology of the idea that homo-sexuality was not a ‘condition’ but a ‘social role’ was by the lesbian sociolo-gist Mary Mackintosh in her path-breaking article, ‘The Homosexual Role’( 1968 ). She applied understandings from labelling theory to homosexuality,and argued that conceptualising the homosexual as a certain kind of per-son who suff ered from a condition operated as a form of social control,which ‘helps to provide a clear-cut, publicised, and recognizable thresholdbetween permissible and impermissible behaviour’ (Mackintosh, 1968 : 183).Mackintosh explained that, in relation to homosexuality, ‘[t]he creation of aspecialized, despised and punished role of homosexuality keeps the bulk ofsociety pure’ (Mackintosh, 1968 : 184). She says that psychologists and psychi-atrists take part in the labelling process in relation to homosexuality and thusin the ‘mechanisms of social control’. This way of seeing homosexuality isuseful for understanding transgenderism too. The creation of the transgenderrole can be seen as a way of separating off unacceptable gender behaviour,which might threaten the system of male domination and female subordin-ation, from correct gender behaviour, which is seen as suitable for persons ofa particular biological sex. In the case of homosexuality, the eff ect is to shoreup the idea of exclusive and natural heterosexuality; and, in the case of trans-genderism, the naturalness of sex roles.Mackintosh points out another aspect of the homosexual role that isrelevant to the ‘role’ of the transgender, which is that ‘homosexuals them-selves welcome and support the notion that homosexuality is a condition’(Mackintosh, 1968 : 184). This is because it removes the possibility of ‘driftingback into normality’ and ‘removes the element of anxious choice’. Thus thehomosexual, and perhaps the transgendered person today, can see themselvesas acting in a way that is legitimate for them, and they can continue to behavein that way without ‘rejecting the norms of the society’. Michel Foucaultproduced his own version of the social constructionist analysis in The Historyof Sexuality: Volume 1 , asserting that, in the nineteenth century, the homosex-ual ‘became a personage, a past, a case history, and a childhood, in addition tobeing a type of life, a life form, and a morphology’ (Foucault, 1978 : 43). Whenthis book was translated into English in 1978, his ideas created a new wave ofgay, social constructionist history and scholarship.There was no outburst from other gay men and lesbians in the 1960sand 1970s that such social constructionist accounts of homosexuality were‘homophobic’, but similar arguments about transgenderism today areattacked as ‘transphobic’. Within the social sciences they were well accepted,and Mackintosh’s analysis is now regarded as a classic in the fi eld (see Stein,). However, in relation to transgenderism over the last two decades, dur-ing which time the construction of this practice has been at its peak – withcertain notable exceptions (Gottschalk, 2003 ; Hausman, 1995 ; Jeff reys, 2006 , ) – there has been no such social constructionist analysis. This, in itself,presents a puzzle. Similarities between the construction of homosexualityand One important reason why the social construction of homosexuality isinstructive in understanding this process in relation to transgenderism is thatthe sexologists who were involved in creating the idea of the homosexual as aparticular type of person in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuriesdid not clearly distinguish homosexuality from what would later be under-stood as transvestism, transsexualism or transgenderism. A prime similarityin the sexological construction between the homosexual of the nineteenthcentury and the transgender person of today is that they are both understoodas biologically determined to act in the way that they do. Henry HavelockEllis’s Sexual Inversion ( 1927 , published 1897) is a good example of this.Ellis, whose work included detailed consideration of the work and conclu-sions of the many sexologists and psychoanalysts who preceded him, statedthat homosexuality, or sexual inversion was a ‘congenital abnormality’ (Ellis, : 318). He considered that the abnormality arose as a result of the ‘latentorganic bisexuality’ of each sex (Ellis, 1927 : 310). Ellis included in this under-standing cross-dressing by men, which he called Eonism, after the ChevalierD’Eon. In his opinion, Eonism, or transvestism, was separate but under thesame umbrella and created by the same biology. The invention of the term‘transvestite’ to describe a practice diff erent from homosexuality is attributedto the sexologist Magnus Hirschfeld, in a publication in 1910 (Blanchard, ).The other signifi cant similarity is that both the homosexual of sexologicaldiscourse and the ‘transgender’ person of today are seen as biologically des-tined to adopt the behaviour culturally associated, at a particular time in his-tory, with the opposite sex. The ‘inverted person’, Ellis explains, had ‘subtleapproximations to the opposite sex … both on the physical and the psychicside’ (Ellis, 1927 : 310). Another similarity is that there is little evidence tosupport the belief in biological determinism in either case. With no scientifi cevidence to support his belief, Ellis simply made an assertion about the exist-ence of male or female ‘germs’: ‘at conception the organism is provided withabout 50 per cent of male germs and about 50 per cent of female germs, andthat, as development proceeds, either the male or the female germs assumethe upper hand, until in the maturely developed individual only a few abortedgerms of the opposite sex are left’ (Ellis, 1927 : 311). In the homosexual, heconsidered, something goes wrong with the process ‘on account of somepeculiarity in the number or character of either the original male germsor female germs’ with the result ‘being a person who is more fi tted for theexercise of the inverted than of the normal sexual impulse’ (Ellis, 1927 : 310).This person may show no physical signs of inversion, but the congenitalabnormality may be evident in behaviour. Such behaviour may include, inEllis’s view, being left-handed, having a high feminine voice, feminine hand-writing or, in women, masculine handwriting. Many of the male cases herecounts showed the inability to whistle or, in female cases, the ability to‘whistle admirably’ (Ellis, 1927 : 291). Ellis argued that ‘inverted women’ alsoexpressed behaviours more usually associated with the opposite sex, that isthey ‘frequently, though not always, convey an impression of mannishness orboyishness’ (Ellis, 1927 : 251).Historically, those who loved and engaged in sexual relationships withpersons of the same sex were likely to engage also in cross-dressing and cross-gendered behaviour, camp, drag and effeminacy in relation to male homo-sexuals, and butchness and masculinity for lesbians. Mary Mackintosh quotesa description from 1729 of the way that homosexual men behaved in Mollyhouses where ‘members of the clubs adopt(ed) all the small vanities naturalto the feminine sex to such an extent that they try to speak, walk, chatter,shriek and scold as women do, aping them as well in other aspects’ (quotedin Mackintosh, 1968 : 188). The expression of behaviour seen as ‘belonging’to the other sex was an ordinary, if not the major, form in which homosexu-ality was practised. For this reason, lesbian and gay historians have routinelyincluded those exhibiting this behaviour in gay history. As John D’Emilioput it in his 1983 history of ‘sexual communities’ in the United States from–1970: ‘During the two decades of the twentieth century, malehomosexual transvestites and their ordinary-looking comrades made theirliaisons in saloons and clubs scattered through the least respectable parts oftown’ (D’Emilio, 1998 , published 1983: 12). His book was publishedbefore transgender activists and academics made a land grab for effeminategay men and butch lesbians to be included in transgender as opposed to ‘gay’history. D’Emilio characterised drag balls as being a part of gay history too,though they would likely be seen as expressions of ‘transgenderism’ today(D’Emilio, 1998 : 12).In the work of transgender activists and theorists today, those engaged insame-sex relationships in previous historical periods, and who cross-dressed,are separated out from the category homosexual and placed in the category‘transgender’. Jay Prosser, for instance, identifi es the character Stephen, inthe novel The Well of Loneliness , as an archetypal transgender (Prosser, 1998 ),though she has been characterised as a lesbian by lesbian historians (Doan, ; Newton, 1984 ). A more recent person to have been ‘transnapped’ byProsser and other transgender activists is Brandon Teena, the young womanwho dressed sometimes in male attire and was murdered in Nebraska in. Prosser says that it was quite wrong for the media to identify heras either female or as a lesbian, and shares the outrage of the transactiv-ist group Transsexual Menace, which formed in reaction to this perceived ‘queering’ of transgender experience. The anthropologist, David Valentine,on the other hand, says that ‘the unquestioned inclusion of people like …Brandon Teena into the encompassing category of “transgender” produces arepresentational colonisation of those lives’ (Valentine, 2007 : 229). CarolynGage, the US lesbian feminist playwright, has written eloquently about herconcerns at the transnapping of Brandon (Gage, 2010 ). She explains thatcrucial information is missing from the movie Boys Don’t Cry – made aboutBrandon – and from the writings by transgender activists that heroise her.The information includes the facts of her severe sexual abuse for years inher female childhood by a male relative. Gage draws similarities betweenBrandon’s mental health problems, her eating disorder and her identifi ca-tion with a male abuser with the experiences of other girls sexually abusedin similar ways. All of this makes her more typical of a young female abusesurvivor, she says, than of a man.I will argue that the category ‘transgender’ was created by forces of malepower, i.e. that it was created not just socially but politically. David Valentinesays that the task of his research on the development of transgenderism wasto investigate the ‘set of power relations whereby’ new categorisations arecreated and people are forced to adapt to ‘the political, social, cultural, andeconomic processes which underlie such power relations; and what eff ectssuch requirements have’ (Valentine, 2007 : 243). I will seek to identify theforces of male power that constructed transgenderism as a category separatefrom homosexuality in the twentieth century.Medicine creates transgenderismTransgenderism, when understood as the possibility of physically changingsex, only became thinkable as the result of developments in medicine in thetwentieth century. In her social constructionist account of the emergence oftransgenderism, Bernice Hausman explains that this association has not beenwell understood, asthese links between medical technology, medical practice, and theadvent of ‘sex change’ in the twentieth century have been ignoredby most scholars who study the subject, who more usually under-stand transsexualism as representative of a transhistorical desire of somehuman subjects to be the other sex.(Hausman, 1995 : 2)Endocrinology was the medical specialism that played the most signifi cantrole, and the two most infl uential doctors in advocacy for sex changes inthe mid-century were the endocrinologists Harry Benjamin and ChristianHamburger. Bernice Hausman argues that it was the ‘public disseminationof scientifi c knowledge of the human endocrine system’ that enabled ‘cer-tain human subjects’ to ‘understand themselves as members of the “other”sex’ (Hausman, 1995 : 26). Endocrinology, she explains, ‘provided medicinewith the tools to enforce sexual dimorphism – not only to examine anddescribe it’ (Hausman, 1995 : 38). Endocrinologists developed expertisewith hormones, which were originally, in the few decades of the twen-tieth century, introduced into the bodies of men who wanted to improvetheir virility by the insertion of goat testes. Later, artifi cial hormones thatmimicked the natural hormones produced by the human body provedmore efficacious. These hormones were used on intersex patients whomthe sexologists considered should be made to resemble more closely thesex category into which the doctors had placed them at birth. They werethen used on patients who wanted to change sex. Another medical spe-cialism needed to be at a particular stage of development to enable theplastic surgery to be performed – and this was anaesthesia (Stryker, 2008 ).The third medical specialism that enabled transgenderism was plastic sur-gery itself.The development of these medical specialisms was so important to theconstruction of transgenderism that the historian of sexuality, Vern Bullough,comments that he ‘once presented a paper’, in 1973, suggesting that transsexu-alism might be ‘iatrogenic’, that is a health problem created by medicine itself.It might exist, he says, ‘simply because surgeons could now do sex changesnot possible before’ (Bullough, 2006 : 4). Hausman explains that when therewas public knowledge about medical advances and technological capabil-ities, individuals could then name themselves as ‘the appropriate subjects ofparticular medical interventions, and thereby participate in the constructionof themselves as patients’ (Hausman, 1995 : 23). These medical developmentsenabled the construction of the idea of ‘gender identity’.The demandersIt would be wrong, Hausman argues, to see the patients who sought sexchanges as the passive victims of the treatments; rather ‘transsexual sub-jects’ played a defi ning role in the construction of transgenderism, through‘demanding’ surgery and drugs that they considered might help them in theiraspirations (Hausman, 1995 ). She says that it is ‘important’ to ‘underscore theagency of transsexual subjects insofar as they forced the medical professionto respond to their demands’ (Hausman, 1995 : 110). Hausman sees the alli-ance of transgenders with doctors as the defi ning element in the construc-tion of transgenderism. In 1980 it had led to the inclusion in the Diagnosticand Statistical Manual of gender identity disorder, which paved the way for treatment (ibid.). It recognised their desires as a form of mental illness causedby being possessed of an anomalous, but essential, ‘gender’.The identity of transgenders, therefore, depended on the medical pro-fession, and it was their demand for surgery that distinguished them fromthe other categories of sexual deviance that sexologists were involved indiagnosing and regulating, such as homosexuality. Whereas homosexualityis simply a form of behaviour that anyone can adopt, for the vast majorityof its acolytes, transgenderism represents a pilgrimage towards a goal thatcan only be realised through doctors because transsexuals ‘needed the serv-ices of professional physicians to achieve their goals’ (ibid.). As the historianof sexuality, Vern Bullough, points out, these medical developments ‘forcedmedicine and transsexuals to have a close alliance in the 1960s and 70s’ atthe same time as ‘gays, lesbians, bisexuals, transvestites, and later even inter-sex individuals’ were seeking to extricate themselves from medical control(Bullough, 2006 : 4).The demanders were overwhelmingly male, though there was alwaysa sprinkling of women among those demanding sex change, includingReed Erikson, a rich American woman who was able, through the EriksonFoundation, to fund and infl uence sexological research on transgender-ism (Meyerowitz, 2002 ). Before the most recent expansion of the category,the sexologists estimated there to be three men demanding surgery to onewoman. This ratio remains largely in place, with applicants for the UK GenderRecognition Certifi cate under the 2004 Gender Recognition Act being inprecisely the same ratio (Ministry of Justice, 2012 ). The male demanders fellinto two categories: homosexual men who felt unable to love men whileremaining in a male body; and men who were overwhelmingly heterosexual,and transgendered as a climax to their interest in cross-dressing (Blanchard, ).A wave of publicity that alerted men to the possibilities open to themoccurred in relation to the sex change of Christine Jorgensen, who falls intothe category. The historian of transgenderism, Joanne Meyerowitz, states‘In the 1950s Jorgensen made sex change a household term’ (Meyerowitz, : 51). Jorgensen’s case generated huge media interest in the UnitedStates. In his Transgender History , the transgender activist Susan Stryker saysthat ‘Jorgensen’s fame was a watershed event in transgender history’ (Stryker, : 49). Jorgensen was homosexual, and said in his memoirs that his ‘emo-tions were either those of a woman or a homosexual’ (Meyerowitz, 2008:). His preference was to consider himself a woman, perhaps because heconsidered homosexuality immoral: ‘it was a thing deeply alien to my reli-gious attitudes’ (quoted in Meyerowitz, 2008: 57). In a letter to a psychiatristin 1950/1951, Jorgensen described himself as a ‘homosexual’ with a ‘largeamount of femininity’ (quoted in Meyerowitz, 2008: 59). Within a few yearsboth Jorgensen and the doctors who treated him would emphasise the diff e-rence between his condition and that of homosexuality, and stress that hisproblem was ‘glandular’ (Meyerowitz, 2008: 61). But early in his career, theconcept of transgenderism had not been constructed with which Jorgensencould identify. Meyerowitz explains that it was Jorgensen’s endocrinologistwho told him that he was not homosexual but had a condition called ‘trans-vestism’, which was ‘deep-rooted in all the cells’ of his body (Meyerowitz,: 66).Opposition to transsexual surgery from psychiatristsThe idea of transsexualism as a condition that required treatment by hor-mones and surgery was not well accepted in these early years. Indeed,as Bullough points out, when Christine Jorgensen went public with hisexperience in the 1950s, a ‘turf war’ broke out in the medical professionabout the correct treatment for men like him. The turf war was betweenthose who dealt with the mind – and considered the fantasy of being awoman to be best treated by psychotherapy and surgery to be a ‘mutila-tion’; and endocrinologists and surgeons – who considered that the besttreatment was physical, in the alteration of the body (Bullough, 2006 : 7).In a 1968 paper, the psychiatrist Donald Hayes Russell voiced his oppos-ition to what he called ‘sex conversion’. He referred to ‘trans-sexualism’ as a‘newly described abnormality’, saying that ‘[t]raditionally, homosexuals andtransvestites are known for their proclivities to act like their opposite sex.Diff ering from these conditions is the relatively newly described abnor-mality – that of “trans-sexualism”’ (Russell, 1968 : 355). He weighed intothe controversy by saying that the condition ‘is generally considered to bepsychiatric, having its roots in early emotional development’ but that ‘somefew observers’, erroneously, ‘entertain the notion of some constitutionalmystique’ (ibid.).Today the ‘feminine essence’ theory is much more pervasive. But in thes this idea had not taken hold, and Russell considered those seekingsex change to be delusional, with the transsexual hoping to ‘really be trans-formed – through medical science – into something that he is not’ (ibid.).Russell explained that there were extremely serious ethical issues involved incarrying out surgery on aspirants, because[p]hysicians generally consider it unethical to destroy or alter tissueexcept in the presence of disease or deformity. The interference witha person’s natural procreative function entails defi nite moral tenets, bywhich not only physicians but also the general public are infl uenced.(Russell, 1968 : 356) He identifi ed transsexual surgery as ‘harm’ and says ‘[t]he administration ofphysical harm as treatment for mental or behavioral problems – as corpor-eal punishment, lobotomy for unmanageable psychotics and sterilization ofcriminals – is abhorrent in our society’ (ibid.). Moreover, he considered, phy-sicians should be careful because they could be sued for malpractice. Little didhe know at that time that these scruples would be so overwhelmingly over-turned in the next few decades. Before long, the explanation of the causesand appropriate treatment for transgenderism had been eff ectively taken overby the patients themselves to suit their interests, and criticism of their schemahad come to be seen as unacceptable hate speech.Paul McHugh, another psychiatrist opposed to sex reassignment, wasresponsible for putting an end to sex-change operations at Johns HopkinsUniversity in 1979. He explained his reasoning in an article in 1992 enti-tled ‘Psychiatric Misadventures’, one of which was accepting that thosewith troubles about ‘gender’ should have hormonal and surgical treatment(McHugh, 1992 ). He said he saw men who felt they were in the ‘wrongbody’, ‘not uncommonly’. He recommended that the patient’s claim that hisfeeling is lifelong should be checked by speaking with those who knew himas a child, because it might not be accurate. Another problem was, he argued,that the ‘feeling like a woman’ was often based simply on sex stereotypes,‘something that woman physicians note immediately is a male caricature ofwomen’s attitudes and interests’(McHugh, 1992 ; 502). He expressed his frus-tration by comparing the recommendation of surgery for transgenders withinterventions such as liposuction for those suff ering the delusion that they areobese. ‘We don’t do liposuction on anorexics. Why amputate the genitals ofthese poor men?’ (McHugh, 1992 : 503). He also compared it with lobotomy,‘the most radical therapy ever encouraged by twentieth-century psychiatrists’and said that neither treatment resulted from ‘critical reasoning or thought-ful assessments’ (ibid.). He reiterated his opposition in 2004 saying, ‘I havewitnessed a great deal of damage from sex-reassignment … We have wastedscientifi c and technical resources and damaged our professional credibilityby collaborating with madness rather than trying to study, cure, and ultim-ately prevent it’ (McHugh, 2004 : 38). This kind of forthright opposition israrely voiced in the twenty-century, when transgenderism has become,as McHugh describes it, ‘fashionable’ (McHugh, 1992 ).Transgenderism and cross-dressingApart from unhappy homosexuals such as Christine Jorgenson, the othermajor category of demanders derives from male, ostensibly heterosexual,cross-dressers. Although cross-dressing is a fairly common pursuit of het-erosexual men, most do not seek to change their sex but dress at home,occasionally venturing out in public ‘dressed’; or in some cases, seeking to livefull-time as women but eschewing surgery or hormones (Woodhouse, 1989 ).It is, however, from this constituency of men that the term ‘transgender’ arose,and although there is much fuss about the boundary between cross-dressersand those who choose to transition, the diff erence seems neither clear norfi xed. The historian of sexuality, Vern Bullough, like many other researchers oftransgenderism, considers that there is little diff erence between cross-dressingand transsexualism; some cross-dressers simply go further than others and endup either living permanently as a woman, or elect to have surgery (Bullough, ). A social movement of male cross-dressers developed in the 1960s ands, which formed another conduit in the construction of transgenderism.The movement was spearheaded by Virginia Prince, to whom the use ofthe term ‘transgender’ is attributed. Prince created the journal Transvestia , formen interested in cross-dressing as women, in 1960. Vern L. Bullough saysthat the term was ‘used by Virginia Prince to describe those individualswho, like her, elected to change “gender” and not “sex”’ (Bullough, 2006 ).The pool of interested men, cross-dressers, from whom the increasingnumbers of those seeking to change sex are drawn, is quite considerable. Inan article that points out the connections between cross-dressing and trans-genderism, transgender psychologist Anne Lawrence gives fi gures from a sur-vey to indicate the ubiquity of cross-dressing interests in men. This showedthat 2.8 per cent of men reported having experienced sexual arousal in asso-ciation with cross-dressing (Lawrence, 2007 : 507). Other studies, he says,found a rate of 2 or 3 per cent. The interest of publicly heterosexual men incross-dressing in garments more usually associated with women has a longhistorical pedigree. Cross-dressing is understood by sexologists as a sexualinterest of heterosexual men and they are agreed that there is no analo-gous practice for women, heterosexual or lesbian, as women are usually notafflicted by unusual paraphilias (Bailey, 2007 ). Cross-dressing is engaged in bygroups of men for fun, as well as being practised secretly at home. MarjorieGarber, in her examination of this practice in the United States, points outthat it has been commonly engaged in by privileged, upper class men incolleges and universities, which gives an indication of its respectability. Sheexplains that dressing up as women, even to the extent of using prosthesesto imitate female body parts, takes place in all male bastions of the Americanupper class, such as the Tavern Club in Boston and the Bohemian Club inSan Francisco, where, she explains that ‘[f]ar from undercutting the power ofthe ruling elite, male cross-dressing rituals here seem often to serve as con-fi rmation and expressions of it’ (Garber, 1997 : 66).Virginia Prince, who has been described as the ‘pioneer’ of transgender-ism, played an important role in the development of cross-dressing from ahobby into a movement (Ekins, 2005 ). He had a PhD in pharmacy and lived as a woman for part of his life, after two marriages. He did not, however,consider himself a transsexual and did not have sex-change surgery. TheInternational Journal of Transgenderism dedicated an issue to him – at ninety-two years old – in 2005, to celebrate the importance of his work in creat-ing the fi eld. Prince had the classic history of a cross-dresser, which todaywould be likely to lead to a diagnosis of gender identity disorder and makehim a candidate for surgery. He began cross-dressing at the age of twelve,using his mother’s clothes, and as a teenager sometimes ‘dressed’ in public,seeking to pass himself off as a girl. He sought out the advice and supportof psychiatrists about his interest, and in 1960 he published the issue ofhis magazine for cross-dressers, Transvestia , which stated that it was directedto ‘sexually normal’ – that is heterosexual – cross-dressers. He formed atransvestite support group from subscribers to the magazine, Hose and Heels ,in Los Angeles in 1961, to which homosexuals and transsexuals were notadmitted. The group became national and was renamed Foundation for FullPersonality Expression (FPE). It gained subscribers from outside the UnitedStates, and in 1965 a European regional group of FPE called the BeaumontSociety was formed in London. Prince also published transvestite fi ction,some written by himself, and sold aids such as artifi cial breasts. After hissecond marriage ended he began to, as he puts it, ‘personate’ women inpublic, had electrolysis to remove his beard and gained breasts as a result ofhormone treatment, but he retained his penis. Prince became the spokesmanfor the transvestite community and claimed to have coined the terms ‘trans-genderism’ and ‘transgenderist’ to describe men such as himself who ‘havebreasts and live full-time as a woman but who have no intention of havinggenital surgery’ (quoted in Ekins, 2005 : 9). Prince considered the develop-ment of transgender surgery, and its wide dissemination and promotion, tobe problematic because he thought it caused susceptible transvestites to beseduced into taking that route; an insight that was prophetic.In 1978 Prince wrote an article for his journal Transvestia , which pres-ages the ways in which queer and transgender theorists were to write abouttransgenderism twenty years later. He explained the usefulness of the suffix‘trans’, and that a ‘transcendent is a person who climbs over and goes beyondsome sort of limitation or barrier’ (Prince, 2005b , published 1978 : 39).Transgenders, he claimed, have to climb over the barrier of gender, and quotesthe sexologist John Money on the defi nition of gender as ‘[a]ll those thingsthat a person says or does to disclose himself or herself as having the statusof boy or man, girl or woman respectively’ (Prince, 2005b : 40). Interestingly,Prince considers that gender isn’t ‘biological, it’s cultural’ (Prince, 2005b 41),and his understanding of what femininity consists of comes from the cul-ture of the 1950s, ‘a world of silk and satin, of lace, and perfume, of grace,beauty and adornment and, ideally, of virtue’ ( 2005 a, 23). Prince’s work isan indication of a move to understand cross-dressing and transsexualism interms of ‘gender’ that was under way. This culminated in the inclusion in theUS Diagnostic and Statistical Manual , the bible of mental health professionals,of the diagnoses of ‘gender identity disorder’ and ‘gender identity disorder inchildhood’, which form the foundations for treatment of this mental healthproblem by hormones and surgery. Gender identity disorder becomes thenew language for what was previously called ‘transsexualism’ (Zucker andSpitzer, 2005 ). In the new 2013 edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual ,the nomenclature was changed again, and gender identity disorder became‘gender dysphoria’, resulting from the arguments of transgender activists thattheir problems with gender did not constitute a disorder, a term that has con-notations of poor mental health.The move to genderThe construction of the idea of ‘gender’ was necessary in order to justifyand explain sex-change treatment. The taking up of this new idea led to animportant staging post in the history of this practice, when, in the 1990s, theterm ‘transgender’ began to crowd out the term ‘transsexualism’ from com-mon understandings. The move to the language and idea of gender in con-ceptualising cross-dressing and transsexualism began with the sexologists ofthe 1950s and 1960s. During this time, the doctors who off ered transgendertreatments created a notion of gender – which previously had only a gram-matical meaning – as the ideological foundation for their practice. Hausmanexplains that sex-change surgery was predicated upon the notion of gender:‘the idea of an identity prior to and within the body that theoretically shoulddictate the physical appearance of the subject’ (Hausman, 1995 : 70). The ideaof gender was developed by the sexologists, John Money and others, in thes and understood as ‘the social performance indicative of an internalsexed identity’ (Hausman, 1995 : 7). It arose from their work using surgery andhormones in the treatment of intersex children, and was used to determinewhich children should be treated and in what ways. As Hausman observes,there was a heterosexist bias from the beginning in the medical constructionof intersexuality and transsexualism, because the physicians were concernedto construct appropriately gendered persons who would act out in accept-ably heterosexual ways. Through the study of the history of transsexualism,Hausman argues that the ‘production of the concept of gender in Westernculture’ can be analysed (Hausman, 1995 : 11). All of the medical ‘interven-tions’, as Hausman refers to them, depended upon ‘the construction of arhetorical system that posits a prior gendered self necessary to justify surgicalinterventions’ (Hausman, 1995 : 71). She calls the doctors the ‘gender man-agers’, and stresses that opposition to homosexuality fuelled their work and justifi ed the sterilisation that was a component part of the treatment, as theyconsidered that it was ‘more important that the patient is not homosexualthan that the patient is fertile’ (Hausman, 1995 : 74).The development by the sexologists of the idea of gender was to makepossible a considerable linguistic and ideological move for the men who wereseeking to change sex. As an increasing number of sexologists, psychologistsand philosophers of science are now pointing out, the idea of gender ena-bled the demanders to wrap their practice and desires in a new framework,which they then sought to justify as essential or even biologically determined(Bailey, 2007 ; Blanchard, 2005 ; Dreger, 2008; 2011 ; Ekins and King, 2010 ).The idea of gender off ered a way out of the difficult situation in which suchmen would otherwise be seen as sexually motivated by a ‘paraphilia’ to cross-dress or change sex. The association with sexuality created problems for theiraccess to treatment, and to the seriousness with which they were regarded inthe public world. The idea of a ‘gender’ mistake, in which they mysteriouslyincorporated a ‘feminine essence’, washed them clean of sleaze and enabledthem to constitute themselves as a confi dent rights-bearing minority whowere just born diff erent. The move from sex to gender was accomplishedwith the increasing acceptance of a new language – transsexualism becametransgenderism.Cross-dressing and transgenderism as paraphiliasThe biographies of cross-dressers and the descriptions of their excite-ments and interests are very similar to those provided by those who goon to access surgery and hormones. Cross-dressing is rather clearly a sex-ual interest, but spokespersons for cross-dressers, and most of those whogo on to transition, reject the idea that their practice is related to sexualexcitement. Prince specifi cally rejected the notion that cross-dressing wasdriven by a pursuit of sexual satisfaction; rather he said it was based upon‘gender’ and allowed men to express their full personality including their‘love of the feminine’ (Ekins, 2005 : 11). This claim, the sociologist RichardEkins argues, was to gain acceptance from family, friends and society. Thereis an increasingly vocal opposition to the idea that the desire to change sexis based upon gender, rather than being a sexual interest, among some ofthose most involved in theorising transgenderism. This group of profession-als, which includes the psychologist Professor Michael Bailey ( 2003 ), thephilosopher of science Alice Dreger (2008), the transgender psychotherapistAnne Lawrence ( 2004 ), and the sociologists Richard Ekins and Dave King( 2010 ), favour the understanding of transgenderism developed by the sex-ologist Ray Blanchard ( 2005 ). Blanchard argues that there are two types oftranssexual: those who love men and are basically homosexual; and thosewho are sexually attracted to the idea of themselves as women, whom hecalls autogynephiles. Autogynephilia, he says, constitutes ‘a male’s propensityto be attracted to the thought or image of himself as a woman’ (Blanchard, : 235). Critics have responded that these two categories do not accountfor all transsexuals, and that many do not easily fi t the criteria for one orthe other, but the supporters say that the schema of there being two suchtypes is overwhelmingly correct, and fi ts the evidence. They reject the ideathat transsexuals have a biological condition in which their ‘gender’ has beenwrongly allocated: ‘It is unfortunate that the public face of MTF transsexu-alism is so diff erent from reality’ (Bailey and Triea, 2007 : 531). Blanchard,Bailey and their colleagues consider that non-homosexual transsexualism,autogynephilia, is a sexual interest, or paraphilia.The sociologist, Ekins, who has made cross-dressing and transgenderismthe subjects of his research and his life’s work, describes the erotic interestsof what he calls ‘male femalers’. He makes no real distinction between cross-dressers and men who go further in their practice and seek to change sex,and they are all, in his view, male femalers. Ekins explains that, for the malefemaler,the desire, or excitement, is aroused … by his own femaling, and/orthrough the awareness of others of his own erotic femaling … Thefemaler [may experience] intense orgasm following a dressing sequence,while at the other end, the femaler might fi nd himself mildly enjoyingthe sensual feel of his bra strap against his shoulder as he makes theminor movements necessary to eat a meal or drink a cup of coff ee.(Ekins, 1997 : 56)This example usefully demonstrates the diff erence between the cross-dresser’sfantasy of what it is to be a woman and what women actually feel, as there isan absence of accounts by women of feeling sexually aroused by the feel oftheir bra straps. But his characterisation of the practice also off ers an insightinto the importance attached by some men who transgender or cross-dressto appearing in public, to women in toilets, for instance, and seeking a reac-tion from them. Bailey and Triea argue that this is a common aspect of auto-gynephilia, describing it as ‘the erotic fantasy of being admired, in the femalepersona, by another person’ (Bailey and Triea, 2007 : 523). Ray Blanchardexplains that a signal diff erence between autogynephiles and homosexuals –to whom they are often compared – is that homosexuals do not seek a reac-tion from passers-by for their sexual satisfaction, whereas the heterosexualmen who progress from cross-dressing to transgenderism act as if they arein a perpetual ‘movie’ into which other persons, such as wives, are inducted,however unwillingly, to play the part of audience (Cameron, 2013 ). The concept of autogynephilia is useful in explaining how men’s sexualinterest in that which, in their minds, appertains to femininity, can go furtherthan cross-dressing to incorporate inscribing womanhood on their bodies byphysical means. Bailey and Triea explain that ‘one common manifestation ofautogynephilia is fetishistic cross-dressing’, but some may not cross-dress butrather ‘fetishise about being a nude woman by focussing on desired anatom-ical features’, and some ‘experience erotic arousal at the idea of becoming awoman, and this arousal motivates them to become women’ (Bailey and Triea, : 523). They explain that not all autogynephilic males choose to becometranssexuals, and their ‘interests run a gamut from cross-dressing to engagingin stereotypic female activities (e.g. knitting alongside other women) to pos-sessing female breasts and genitals’ (ibid.). There is no ‘obvious’ diff erence,they argue, between those non-homosexual cross-dressers who will go on totransgender and those who will not. Bailey and Triea have no truck with thenotion of a ‘feminine essence’ or innate gender.Though an increasing number of sexologists are saying that cross-dress-ing and autogynephile transsexualism are based on a sexual orientation, orparaphilia, rather than misplaced gender, they seldom venture to explainexactly what the sexual excitement is based upon. Bailey and Triea implythat this sexual interest is a form of masochism, pointing out that ‘[o]fmen who die practising the dangerous masochistic activity of autoeroticasphyxia, approximately 24% are cross-dressed’ (Bailey and Triea, :). I have argued elsewhere that the fact that the excitement is masochis-tic is clear in the pornography of cross-dressers, and in the statements ofcross-dressers themselves (Jeff reys, 2005 ). The excitement that the idea ofbeing a woman, and the excitement that the accoutrements of womanhoodhold when placed upon a man, result from the fact that womanhood rep-resents a subordinate position. When a man is forcibly cross-dressed, or ableto imagine himself as a woman, he experiences the delicious excitement ofbeing unmanned, deprived of the superior status of manhood and demotedto the subordinate status of womanhood. It is an excitement derived fromthe hierarchy of gender, the caste system of male dominance and wom-en’s subordination, and would not be imaginable outside that framework.Women’s clothing is not sought out because it is prettier or more delightful,but because of its symbolic meaning. This understanding of men’s practiceof cross-dressing, and the transsexual impulses that can result, is not likelyto meet with the approval of women, for whom being feminine is an oftenarduous and burdensome aspect of their lowly status rather than a sourceof orgasm. Perhaps for this reason, the feminine essence theory, the ideaof a misplaced ‘gender’, is much more acceptable than the eroticising ofwomen’s subordination by men. Bailey and Triea off er an explanation forthe enthusiasm for the feminine essence theory among many men whotransgender, saying that those who promote this idea may consider theyare more likely to be accepted for treatment if they are not seen as sexu-ally deviant. They may fi nd the idea ‘intrinsically appealing’ even if it is‘implausible’ (Bailey and Triea, 2007 : 528).Blanchard and his supporters argue that there is plentiful evidence ofthe existence of autogynephilia whereas there is none for feminine essence(Blanchard, 2005 ). It lies in the narratives that Blanchard has heard fromhis many patients, and from the fi fty-nine narratives that transgender psy-chotherapist, Anne Lawrence, has collected. Blanchard off ers some examplesfrom Lawrence’s collection to show how autogynephilia manifests itself. Onenarrative describes the author’s sexual excitement at being taken for a woman:‘In the early days I would become aroused whenever anyone, a sales clerk,a casual stranger, would address me as “Ma’am” or perform some courtesysuch as holding a door for me’ (Blanchard, 2005 : 440). Another explains thatboth before and after sex-reassignment surgery (SRS) he liked to pretend tomenstruate: ‘it was and still is sexually exciting for me to have female body“functions.” Before my SRS, I would pretend to menstruate by urinating insanitary pads. I particularly enjoyed wearing the old fashioned belted pad withlong tabs’ (Blanchard, 2005 : 440). Blanchard uses one quote from a narrativeto explain why autogynephiles might seek out sexual encounters with men.While not seeing themselves as homosexual, such incidents may serve to gainrecognition of the womanhood of the transgender: ‘I felt I was confi rmingmy womanhood by being a passive partner … I have never been interestedin sex with a man when I was presenting as a man, myself ’ (Blanchard, 2005 :). The motivations of ostensibly heterosexual men who transgender arefairly well explained by these sexologists as arising from masochism, and thedesire to obfuscate the sexual nature of cross-dressing and transgenderism wasone of the forces constructing transgenderism in the late twentieth century.Importantly, Bailey and Triea argue that the sort of attacks on their repu-tation received by any person who publicly challenges the feminine essenceidea serves to prevent any alternative being voiced. Two prominent propo-nents of the theory, transgender activists Lyn Conway and Andrea James,called the 2003 book, in which Bailey was critical, The Man who would beQueen ,‘Nazi propaganda’ (Bailey and Triea, 2007 : 528). Bailey was subjectedto a campaign of vilifi cation, which included placing photographs of hischildren on a website with insulting captions (Dreger, 2008). He says thatmany untrue accusations were made against him, and these were ‘precisely anattempt to punish the author for writing approvingly about Blanchard’s ideas,and to intimidate others from doing so’ (Bailey and Triea, 2007 : 529). Baileyand Triea argue that advocates for the feminine essence narrative, and againstBlanchard’s theory, are non-homosexual transsexuals who ‘incorrectly denytheir autogynephilia’ (Bailey and Triea, 2007 : 529). These men are supported in their mistaken ideas by many ‘gender physicians’ who may be unwillingto disbelieve or displease their patients, and who are more comfortable withfacilitating sex reassignment for ‘reasons related to gender than eroticism’.Transgenderism and homosexualityAnother force in the construction of transgenderism, according to DavidValentine, is the conservatism of a gay male politics concerned to reject andsideline effeminacy. Whatever the balance of forces that constructed trans-genderism in the late twentieth century, one puzzling element is the lack ofcriticism by male gay scholars, particularly since hatred of homosexuality soclearly played a role, and one group of those who aspire to transgender aremen who love men. As we have seen, the doctors who were involved in con-structing transgenderism, and the demanders themselves, were determinedto avoid any association of cross-gender practices with homosexuality. Theabsence of any critique of transgenderism from within the male gay commu-nity is sufficiently conspicuous as to need explanation, and David Valentineseeks to off er one (Valentine, 2007 ). He argues that the lack of protest by gaymen points to the useful function that transgenderism performs for a newbreed of conservative gay men post gay liberation. These conservative gaymen assert their concordance with normative masculinity and seek to denyand exclude effeminate gay men by casting them into the category of ‘trans-gender’. This ploy protected the normality of the gay man and helped in hiscampaign to be accepted legislatively and socially as just another jock.He argues that effeminacy was separated off from homosexuality andplaced in a special category of its own as a result of a range of impulses, oneof which was the normalisation of male homosexuality by those he calls‘accommodationist’ activists after gay liberation. At the time of gay liber-ation there was a radical critique of what were called ‘sex roles’ emanatingfrom the infl uence of the feminist movement that was contemporaneous.At the height of the gay liberation movement there was a rejection of bothmasculine and feminine role playing, as symptoms of a harmful patriarchalsystem that oppressed homosexuals (Jeff reys, 2003 ). Gay male theorists arguedthat gay men should not be sissies or butches because these roles were animitation of that which they identifi ed as the oppressive rules of patriarchy.The behaviours of masculinity and femininity in general were understood asbackward, and they should, it was argued, be jettisoned.Gay liberationists and feminists in the 1970s provided explanations asto why male homosexuality was associated with femininity and lesbianismwith masculinity not only in medicine, but also by homosexuals themselves.They argued that in male-supremacist societies, heterosexuality was enforcedthrough the excoriation of same-sex sexual behaviour. Masculinity was, andis, so strongly correlated with male, aggressive penis-in-vagina sex, that devi-ation from this norm, to the extent of engaging sexually with the same sex,was seen as unmanly and therefore a representation of femininity. In the sameway, women who made love to women were seen as unwomanly because thiswas a masculine role and lesbians were seen as embodying a form of masculin-ity. These messages were sufficiently strong enough to infl uence the way thatthose who loved the same sex thought about themselves. There is a wealth ofmaterial to suggest that these messages were thoroughly imbibed (Gottschalkand Newton, 2003 ). In 1950s lesbian culture, for instance, lesbians were likelyto adopt male names, bind their breasts to hide them, and even evince theirdesire for penises (Jeff reys, 1989 ). But there is no suggestion that these womensaw themselves as ‘really’ being men; rather, they wished to enact a male roletowards those they loved.As the radical edge of gay liberation was worn down, and a much more con-servative era of neo-liberal consumerism dawned in the 1980s, this political cri-tique of ‘sex roles’ was abandoned. In its place there developed among gay mena cult of masculinity, in which effeminacy was eschewed and a new camped-upextreme masculinity was adopted and venerated, represented in sadomasochism,in cowboys and construction workers and all the types of the gay pop groupVillage People. Gay sociologist, Martin Levine, is one of the male gay writersto have criticised this burgeoning masculinity – he called this the ‘butch shift’(Levine, 1998 ). This shift is understandable as a reaction against the associationof homosexuality with effeminacy and representative of a new self-confi dence,but it created problems for gay men’s health and lives through the promotionof a masculinist and aggressive sexual culture involving large numbers of sexualpartners and harmful practices such as fi stfucking and anal sex without condoms(Jeff reys, 2003 ). Feminist critics have argued that male gay masculinity was anobstacle in the way of the need to abolish ‘gender roles’, create an egalitariansexuality, and challenge pornography and the sex industry.Valentine explains that as a result of all this, transgenderism was ‘institu-tionalised’ in the 1990s ‘in a vast range of contexts, from grassroots activ-ism, social service provision, and individual identifi cation, to journalisticaccounts’ such that ‘transgender identifi cation’ was understood ‘to be expli-citly and fundamentally diff erent in origin and being from homosexualidentifi cation’ (Valentine, 2007 : 4). The patriarchal state invested heavily inthe concept with funding to social service agencies and centres designedto cater to the ‘transgender’ community. The concept was developed in theacademy, with transgender studies and transgender publishing. Despite thesedevelopments, Valentine argues that when he did his research in the lates in New York, he found, much to his surprise, that there was no trans-gender community. He carried out his research while employed as a safesex educator for the transgender community and found that the majority of those to whom he was directed for outreach work either did not knowthe term transgender or did not relate to it. Even those who lived full-timein clothing usually associated with women, and those who had had surgeryto remove parts of their bodies saw themselves as gay men. Valentine argues,persuasively, that most of the varieties of behaviour now commonly placedby scholars and social workers under a transgender umbrella, such as dragartists, feminine gay men and butch lesbians, have historically, and in thepresent, been understood by themselves and others as ‘gay’. How, he asks,did the category ‘transgender’ get created and what are the implicationsof its construction? ‘What is the reason for the incredibly rapid dissemin-ation of “transgender” in the United States since the early 1990s which hascemented the distinction between gender variance and sexual orientation?’(Valentine, 2007 : 6). The sidelining of effeminate gay men, he argues, is aresult of the separation of ‘gender’ and ‘sexuality’ that has taken place in theacademy and in gay communities and has ‘eff ectively required the birth of anew category – transgender – for those who are not identifi ed primarily interms of “sexuality”’ (Valentine, 2007 : 236). Another element in the creationof the idea of ‘gender identity’ as separate from sexuality is that ‘gender’ isconceptualised as a form of ‘social diff erence’ rather than, from a feministperspective, ‘a site of power relations’ (ibid.).TransableismAnother force in the construction of transgenderism is the way in whichthe development of the Internet has enabled groups of mainly men to createonline communities around their sexual proclivities. This happened in relationto cross-dressing and transgenderism, but also in relation to another practicethat has some close connections with transgenderism – ‘transableism’. Theexample of transableism shows how an ‘identity’ can be built online, but alsoshows the problems of this kind of identity politics, in which categories ofpersons who suff er disadvantage – in this case persons with disabilities – canbe the subject of appropriation and imitation for sexual excitement using thejustifi cation that an identity, however peculiar, should be respected. In thispractice, which was originally labelled ‘apotemnophilia’ (Money et al ., 1977 ),now more usually called Body Integrity Identity Disorder (BIID), aspirantsseek amputation of one or more limbs (First, 2004 ; First and Fisher, 2012 ).The aspirants have been busy online creating identities and campaigning foramputation by medical professionals (Davis, 2011 ). They have their own ter-minology for their interest, transableism, which references transgenderism, inorder to make themselves look more respectable. These transableists includeboth those who seek satisfaction from amputation and those who seek disabil-ity in other forms, such as paraplegia, deafness or blindness. In recent writingsby sexological experts, gender identity disorder and BIID are seen as funda-mentally similar, particularly in relation to the sexual satisfactions involved.Michael First, for instance, editor of the US Diagnostic and Statistical Manual ,who has been advocating for BIID to be added to the Diagnostic and StatisticalManual so that those seeking amputation can access treatment, argues thattransableists in general should be placed in the manual under a heading ofidentity disorder that includes only two categories, gender identity disorderand BIID (First and Fisher, 2012 ). First explains that, because of the similar-ities, he uses the diagnostic criteria for gender identity disorder as the modelfor the twelve criteria he off ers for a diagnosis of BIID. Voluntary limb ampu-tation has achieved a surprising degree of normalisation through Internetnetworking and campaigning, and this off ers insights into the way in whichtransgenderism has fl ourished as a practice and a movement.The critical scholarship on transgenderism has scarcely begun, and this bookseeks to encourage its development. The theme this chapter has explored, ofhow the concept came to exist, is an important place to begin. Much morecritical research on the construction of transgenderism is needed, but thiswork cannot take place while this practice is seen as an essential phenom-enon that is beyond question. The assertion that an essence of gender is theexplanation for transgenderism prevents any exploration of the history andconstruction of this practice. Such investigative scholarship is represented as‘transphobic’ and met with resistance. The idea that ‘gender’ is quite separatefrom ‘sexuality’ and has a logic and essence of its own is commonly stated inqueer and transgender theory, and this eff ectively prevents the history of theentanglement of hatred of homosexuality in the construction of transgender-ism from being voiced or analysed. The lessons that critical lesbian and gay,and feminist scholarship contribute to the understanding of transgenderismare that its construction serves the political agenda of shoring up hetero-sexuality and maintaining a correctly gendered citizenry. Janice Raymondexpressed this succinctly in The Transsexual Empire . ‘What we have here is avery sophisticated form of behavior control and modifi cation, on both theindividual and the social level’ (Raymond, 1979 : 131).Another force in the construction of transgenderism was queer theory inthe academy, which destabilised academic feminism and led to claims thatthere was really no such thing as a ‘woman’, so, of course, men who trans-gender could be women too. The weakening of feminist theory by the adventof queer politics undermined the criticism of transgenderism by those per-sons most aff ected by the phenomenon – women and feminists. The impactof queer politics will be considered in the next chapter.TRANSGENDERISMAND FEMINISMTransgender theory and practice contradict the very basis of feminism,since feminism is a political movement based on the experience of personswho are women, born female and raised in the female sex caste. In the lastdecade there has been a considerable campaign, mainly by some men whoconsider themselves transgender, to establish that they are feminists, andthat their practice is not only compatible with feminism, but exemplary ofits proper aims. This campaign has had some success in being accepted byparts of the feminist movement and academic feminism, because it reso-nates with the queer and poststructuralist theory that has overwhelmedfeminist understandings of ‘gender’. This acceptance made the idea thatmen can be both women and lesbians, and that some women who trans-gender who were previously lesbians are really ‘men’, seem reasonable.This chapter will examine the way that feminists have theorised trans-genderism, the impact of queer theory, and the development of trans-gender theory and transgender feminism. It will consider, also, the way inwhich transgender activism has sought to silence the feminists who chal-lenge transgenderism.At the height of second wave feminism in the 1970s, transgenderism wasa much less common practice. Nonetheless, there was a quite general polit-ical rejection of the practice by feminists on the grounds that transgenderism,called transsexualism at that time, replicated the sex role stereotypes, nowcalled ‘gender’, that were seen as the building blocks of the subordination ofwomen (Morgan, 1978 ; Raymond, 1994 ).Such ‘stereotyped roles’ are, according to feminist critics of the practice,the very foundation and sine qua non of transgenderism. The transgender-ism that feminists did come in contact with in the 1970s consisted of a fewindividual males seeking to ‘personate’ women, as the infl uential theorist ofcross-dressing in the 1960s and 1970s, Virginia Prince ( 2005 b), called hispractice. Before the 1990s, the organised transgender activist movement thatwas facilitated by the Internet did not exist. At that time, the phenomenon ofwomen seeking to ‘personate’ men was much less common, and not visiblein lesbian communities.Forty years ago radical feminist thinkers and activists were very clear intheir view that persons who were born biologically male and raised as males,but sought recognition as women in the women’s liberation movement, wereengaged in a form of colonialism and should be ejected. Males were under-stood to be members of the oppressive sex caste that benefi ted from women’ssubordination. Robin Morgan explained this clearly in her speech to theWest Coast Lesbian Conference in Los Angeles in 1973 (Morgan, 1978 ). Shechanged her speech to include the issue of transgenderism in response tothe problematic presence of a cross-dressing man, whose attendance causedgrievous damage to the conference:[A]ll hell broke loose that very night, caused by the gate-crash-ing presence of a male transvestite who insisted that he was (1) aninvited participant, (2) really a woman, and (3) at heart a lesbian. (It is,one must grant, an ingenious new male approach for trying to seducewomen.) The conference promptly split over the man. More than halfthe women there Friday evening demanded he be forced to leave anall-woman conference; others … defended him as their ‘sister’. Somewomen left the conference for good.(Morgan, 1978 : 171)Feminists at the time objected to what she calls ‘the obscenity of male trans-vestism’ because they saw it as an insulting practice in which men caricaturedstereotypes of women for their own amusement or pleasure. They comparedit to other ways in which members of dominant groups mocked those theyconsidered their inferiors, as happened in the black and white minstrel showsof the period when white men performed in blackface. As Morgan put it, ‘ Weknow what’s at work when whites wear blackface; the same thing is at work when menwear drag’ (Morgan, 1978 : 180) (italics in the original).Morgan says that the transvestites, as she called them, were ‘men whodeliberately reemphasize gender roles, and who parody female oppressionand suff ering’ and is fi rm about rejecting their entryism:No, I will not call a male ‘she’; thirty-two years of suff ering in this andro-centric society, and of surviving, have earned me the title ‘woman’; onewalk down the street by a male transvestite, fi ve minutes of his beinghassled (which he may enjoy), and then he dares, he dares to think heunderstands our pain? No, in our mothers’ names and in our own, wemust not call him sister.(Morgan, 1978 , 180) (emphasis in original) The particular ‘transvestite’ at the 1973 conference had a history of demand-ing entry to women’s spaces despite the destruction and division that thisclearly caused. He had already, she explained, ‘four years ago tried to pres-sure a San Francisco lesbian into letting him rape her’ and had done greatdamage to the lesbian group Daughters of Bilitis by his entryism into thatorganisation. He had threatened the conference organisers with legal actionif they sought to exclude him; ‘when personally begged by women notto attend this conference, [he] replied that if he were kept out he wouldbring federal suit against the women on the charges of “discrimination andcriminal conspiracy to discriminate”’ (ibid.). Morgan accuses the trans-vestite of narcissism, of wanting to be the centre of attention and to usethe conference to ‘boost his opportunistic career’ (ibid.). ‘Transvestites’, sheargued, should form their own organisations and pursue their own interestsrather than trying to barge into women’s activism and spaces. They should‘band together and organize against that oppression, instead of leechingoff women who have spent their entire lives as women in women’s bodies’(Morgan, 1978 : 181).In the UK, the feminist response to transsexuals seeking to enter thewomen’s movement was similar. In a 1979 paper for the Leeds Radical/Revolutionary Feminist conference, Lal Coveney explained why transsexualswere not women:It needs to be stated loud and clear that being a woman is a long-termexperience, and one that isn’t summed up by a collection of femalegenitalia with some clothes draped over them. It takes years of constantpressure and lots of practice to achieve the accepted standards of fem-ininity – we learnt the tricks (in order to survive) so presumably mencan too. But the state of mind, the process of becoming – we didn’thave any choice about that.(Coveney, 1979 )The paper ends, ‘operations don’t change the lining of your head’. In theLondon Women’s Liberation Newsletter for 1979, the sentiments towards theentryism of transsexuals were overwhelmingly in the negative for all thesereasons.The only full book-length feminist critique of the practice of transgender-ism in this period was Janice G. Raymond’s The Transsexual Empire ( 1994 ,published 1979). Raymond, a radical feminist theorist and professor ofthe Philosophy of Science, provided an incisive, feminist, political analysis ofthe problem: ‘My main conclusion is that transsexualism is basically a socialproblem whose cause cannot be explained except in relation to the sex rolesand identities that a patriarchal society generates’ (Raymond, 1994 : 79). Sheargued that transsexualism was a product of medicine as an industry, ratherthan a transhistorical and essential aspect of humanness, or a fl aw in biologicaldevelopment that needs to be repaired by the kindly attentions of surgeons.Her work was a development of the sociological critique of medicine, whichowes its origin to the work of Talcott Parsons ( 1951 ). Parsons argued thatmedicine was a social institution that regulated social deviance through theprovision of medical diagnoses for nonconforming behaviour. Medicine was,in this understanding, engaged in social control. Another form of argumentin this approach was the Marxist one of seeing medicine as a source andmechanism for extracting profi ts in capitalism and part of the medical-indus-trial complex (Riska, 2003 ). Both of these approaches have been employedby transcritical feminists in their critique of transgenderism.These ideas lay behind the anti-psychiatry movement of the 1960s ands, which focused on challenging the proliferation of psychiatric diag-noses and drug therapies to control forms of behaviour that should, theyconsidered, be seen as politically and socially constructed rather than mad.In this view, the problematic behaviours should be seen either as social pro-test, or as the products of the inequalities and injustices of a classist, racist andsexist capitalist status quo (Illich, 1975 ; Szasz, 1960 ). It was not just radicalfeminist theorists like Raymond who were critical of transgenderism in thes and 1980s. Social constructionist sociologists were too. Dwight Billingsand Thomas Urban carried out research in this more critical period, usingobservation and interviews in a ‘gender’ clinic (Billings and Urban, 1982 ). Ascritical sociologists of the time, they engaged in a thoroughgoing critique ofthe medical practice of transgenderism. They argued that physicians createdand promoted sex-change surgery, which would heal ‘neither the body northe mind, but perform a moral function instead’ and that the surgery ‘priva-tizes and depoliticizes individual experience of gender-role distress’, whichis a symptom of social change and challenge to the political construction ofgender roles (Billings and Urban, 1982 : 266). They conclude, powerfully, that‘[b]y substituting medical terminology for political discourse, the medicalprofession has indirectly tamed and transformed a potential wildcat strike atthe gender factory’ (Billings and Urban, 1982 : 282).Feminist critiques of medicine and psychiatry developed these radical pol-itical ideas, but their work in relation to transgenderism, which would haveseemed unremarkable at the time among those who saw themselves as pro-gressive thinkers about medicine, is excoriated today by transgender activistsas ‘hate’ speech and vilifi cation, and results in campaigns of defamation andharassment against any women who are critical (Jeff reys, 2012a ). The feministswho were critical of the practice of transgenderism in the 1970s tended to besome of the biggest names in radical feminist theory of the time, whose ana-lyses of sexual politics provided the foundations of feminist theory in general, such as Mary Daly, Janice Raymond, Robin Morgan. They are subjectedto strong critiques in the literature of transgender activists today (Serano, ; Stryker, 2008 ). The burgeoning fi eld of transgender studies and the‘transgender feminism’, which is now increasingly taught in women’s studiesprogrammes, pays considerable attention to debunking the arguments andactions of these most infl uential second wave feminist theorists in relationto the practice. The project of transgender activists is to replace this radicalfeminist theory, which seeks the abolition of sex role stereotypes, now calledgender, with a version of ‘feminism’ more compatible with their interests.The feminist critique of transgenderism was sidelined, in common with allforms of radical feminist theory and practice during the 1990s, when queertheory swept aside feminism and lesbian feminism and formed a sure founda-tion for the burgeoning of transgender ideology and practice. To understandhow the feminist critique of transgenderism was replaced by a politics thatprovides support for the practice, it is necessary to examine the developmentand ideas of queer theory, particularly in relation to gender.‘Gender’ in feminist theoryQueer theory and politics inherited the term ‘gender’ from its usage by fem-inist theorists. The term ‘gender’ was not widely adopted by feminist theo-rists until the late 1970s or early 1980s (Haig, 2004 ). In David Haig’s usefulstudy of the adoption of the term through analysis of titles in feminist writ-ings in journals and books, he shows that those feminists who used it in thes clearly identifi ed its origins in the work of sexologists such as JohnMoney and Robert Stoller. Sexologists developed this term – from a usagethat was purely grammatical, referring to the gender of words – to apply tosex-appropriate behaviour, and used it to facilitate their attempts to placeintersex children in categories they considered suitable. It does not originatein feminism, but was adopted by feminists for its usefulness in delineatingthe process of social construction of women’s subordinate role. Feministtheorists developed the usage of the term to describe the whole system inwhich women were subordinated, as in the expression ‘gender hierarchy’.Unfortunately, the feminist usage has been buried in waves of confusionand obfuscation and in non-feminist contexts there is a confl ation of ‘sex’and ‘gender’ in everything from college application forms to the ideologyof transgenderism. As Haig comments, ‘gender has come to be adopted asa simple synonym, perhaps a euphemism, for sex by many writers who areunfamiliar with the term’s recent history’ (Haig, 2004 : 95). The term hasbecome so politically ambiguous that it is likely a new language will have tobe created by feminists as they seek to dismantle the mess that its usage hascreated. One aspect of that mess is the way in which queer theory was ableto deploy the term ‘gender’ so that a very conservative form of behaviour,male, heterosexual cross-dressing, came to appear transgressive.The queer assault on feminismThe term ‘queer’ was adopted to describe a type of politics that developed inthe early 1990s out of AIDS activism. Male gay activists who came out ontothe streets to protest the wave of anti-gay hatred that accompanied the AIDSepidemic used the term ‘queer’ to diff erentiate themselves from what theysaw as an older generation of men who used the term ‘gay’ and who wereaccommodationist and not sufficiently confrontational for the moment ofemergency that the new activists saw themselves to be confronting (Jeff reys, ). The term queer did not emerge from lesbian feminist politics and wasin clear opposition to them from the beginning. The new term was a bigstep back for lesbians and feminists, as it had taken two decades of struggleto reach the point where there was a recognition that lesbians needed to beseparately acknowledged in the titles of conferences, books and campaigns.Generic terms such as ‘homosexual’ and ‘gay’ disappeared lesbians under maleinterests and concerns, and the male imaginary. The lesbian feminist move-ment in the 1970s showed that lesbians had quite separate and in many wayscontradictory interests from those of gay men. Lesbian feminists developed aprofound critique of gay male politics and gay male ambitions, as is clear inMarilyn Frye’s work in The Politics of Reality ( 1983 ) and my Unpacking QueerPolitics (Jeff reys, 2003 ). It became clear from the beginning that the new gen-eric term would cancel out the hard-won visibility of lesbians within thesepolitics, and that is what came to pass.Lesbian feminist critics challenged the content of queer politics in a numberof ways. They said that queer politics constituted a return to a male-dominatedsexual freedom agenda that feminism and lesbian feminism in the 1970s ands had sought to overturn (Jeff reys, 2003 ). They argued that queer theoryarose out of a conservative time in the 1990s when the radical politics of les-bian feminism and gay liberation were being disavowed as unrealistic. Theseradical politics had challenged the existence of gender as a system of power,challenged marriage and heterosexuality as political institutions, and arguedthat homosexuality was not biological and could be a matter of political choice.These ideas were too radical for the 1990s, which were not daring times polit-ically. In that much less revolutionary decade, individual bodies were challengedrather than the body politic, such that body modifi cation, branding, cuttingand tattooing came to be seen as progressive practices (Jeff reys, 2000 ). Queerpolitics coincided with the marketisation of many areas of life, including sex,and the queer consumer was born. More and more sex industry practices wereincorporated into lesbian and gay social life, such as drag shows and strip shows. Moreover, it was argued that doing unusual things to and with your genitals,including cutting them off as in transgenderism, was revolutionary (Jeff reys, ; 2008a ). Even the cutting off of other body parts, or placing objects underthe skin, and brutal forms of branding in diff erent forms of ‘body modifi cation’were somehow given queer credentials (Pitts, 2001 ; Sullivan, 2001 ). Attacksupon the bodies of deeply troubled lesbians and gay men by themselves, bycommercial cutters or by surgeons, were represented as ‘transgressive’ ratherthan destructive (Jeff reys, 2008b ).The most important aspect of queer theory for the development of atransgender movement, however, was its theorising of gender. While feministshad sought to use gender in ways that suited their revolutionary purposesand aimed to demolish gender diff erences, the queer approach was much lessradical, and paved the way for transgenderism to be seen as an emblematicpractice of queer politics. Queer theory developed as a subset of postmod-ern theory, and was devoted from its outset to a form of deconstruction-ism that disappeared the category ‘woman’ itself (Brodrib, 1992 ). Without‘women’ feminism cannot exist, since feminism is a political movement forthe liberation of a specifi c category of oppressed persons, and the disappear-ance of women renders feminism superfl uous. ‘Woman’ was not a concern ofqueer politics, and ‘gender’ displaced any consideration of the fl eshly realityof woman’s existence. Queer theory created a gender politics which reducedgender to a form of personal expression or performance, and obscured thematerial power relations of male domination (Butler, 1990 ). The aim of queergender politics was to make gender fl exible and create more ‘genders’. Inthese ways queer theory was in direct opposition to feminist politics andenabled the development of transgenderism as a practice and ideology.Radical feminist theorists do not seek to make gender a bit more fl ex-ible, but to eliminate it. They are gender abolitionists, and understand genderto provide the framework and rationale for male dominance. In the radicalfeminist approach, masculinity is the behaviour of the male ruling class andfemininity is the behaviour of the subordinate class of women. Thus gen-der can have no place in the egalitarian future that feminism aims to create(Delphy, 1993 ). In the predominant queer theory approach, however, genderis something that can be ‘played with’. In this queer interpretation, genderis ‘transgressive’ when adopted by persons of one biological sex who wouldnormally be expected to display diff erent characteristics. There is, however,no way out of gender; it can be swapped but in this formulation it cannotbe abolished. In this respect queer theory suited the socially conservativetimes of the 1990s when the idea of social transformation was forgotten andvarious forms of cavorting in line with the system were relabelled as fun andrebellious. Queer theory on gender, rather than being progressive, shouldperhaps be seen as coquettish, fl irting with male domination and reproducingits contortions. It locks lesbians and gay men into precisely the old time sexrole stereotypes that more progressive movements – gay liberation and lesbianfeminism – sought to demolish.Queer theory adopted the term ‘transgender’ to cover those engagingin ‘transgressive’ performances of gender. This included lesbian and gay roleplayers alongside transvestites, drag queens and kings, and both old-fashionedtranssexuals, mired in biology, and those who reject biological explanationsfor their transitioning. As Holly (now Aaron) Devor puts it, ‘Under the rubricof queer sexuality, we have seen postmodern sensibilities come to the foreas more and more people come forward to claim their right to be whatevertheir hearts and groins tell them to be’ (Devor, 2002 : 16). In this respect,queer sexuality is about whatever turns you on, with no interest in the socialconstruction and political implications of individual desires and practices.Queer theory’s politics of identity represents a fi erce individualism. Devorexplains that the queer/transgender community is composed of ‘transsexuallesbians, of tranny fags and the men who love them, of lesbians and gay menwho enjoy sex together, and of dyke daddies who live out their fantasies asSM gay men’ (ibid.). The transgender activist and academic, Susan Stryker,explains that transgender became ‘articulated’ with queer in the form of ‘animagined political alliance of all possible forms of gender antinormativity’(Stryker, 2008 : 146).Queer theory and politics became involved in a gender rescue missionagainst the radical feminist campaign to abolish it. This may be because, formost women and men under male dominance, sexual desire is constructedprecisely from eroticising the power diff erence between the sexes that isembodied in gender. Equality is unsexy and the very idea of dismantling gen-der is, therefore, as Catharine MacKinnon explains, ‘detumescent’ (Jeff reys, ; MacKinnon, 1989 ). This has been a particular problem for those lesbi-ans and gay men who are unable to challenge the gendered nature of theirown experience of sexual desire. Same sex attraction does not immediatelyoff er the eroticised inequality of heterosexuality, and those who need thisform of sexual stimulation have to recreate the power diff erence of ‘gender’through role playing. To this purpose, gender was embraced as a ‘sex toy’by signifi cant queer theorists and activists such as Pat Califi a (now Patrick)( 1994 ), and Judith (Jack) Halberstam (Halberstam, 1998 ), who pronouncedthat role playing masculinity and femininity was precisely what put the piz-zazz into lesbian sex and should be celebrated. Role playing, it became clear,off ered the sexual satisfactions of a mild form of sadomasochism (Jeff reys, ).The eminent queer theorist, Judith Butler, whose work is most usuallycited as arguing that gender is a ‘performance’, takes a similar approach,explaining that she is someone whose sexual desire is constructed out of gender diff erence. In an interview she says that she ‘situated’ herself ‘in rela-tion to butchness’ in her early twenties, and has had ‘an active and complicatedrelationship with both butch-femme discourse and S/M discourse probablyfor almost 20 years’ (More, 1999 : 286). In Undoing Gender she explains that‘[t]here may be women who love women’ who cannot do this ‘through thecategory women’ and that ‘they/we’ are ‘deeply … attracted to the femin-ine’ (Butler, 2004 : 197). She asks, ‘why shy away from the fact that there maybe ways that masculinity emerges in women?’ (ibid.). Butler’s enthusiasmfor gender causes her to embrace transsexual surgery as a human right eventhough this practice is not playful or fl exible and goes way beyond perform-ance, since amputated penises cannot be reattached. She goes so far as topromote the right to transsexual surgery as a matter of justice and says thatshe agrees with the transgender activist argument that transsexuality ‘shouldbe a matter of choice, an exercise of freedom’, so that restrictions on surgerylead to ‘a basic human freedom’ being ‘suppressed’ (Butler, 2004 : 88). She alsostates that the aspirations of transgenders are about ‘the ability to live andbreathe and move and would no doubt belong somewhere in what is calleda philosophy of freedom’ (ibid.). In this way she seeks to tie the transgenderproject into a vision of progressive social change.The clear diff erence between this queer approach and that of radical fem-inism is demonstrated in the work of the radical feminist law professor andfeminist theorist, Catharine MacKinnon, who does not accept that genderswapping makes gender somehow harmless. Of the sexualising of dominanceand submission, which makes the ‘target or object’ of sexuality ‘subordinate’and ‘usually a female’, she writes, ‘hierarchy is always done through genderin some way; even if it is playing with gender or reversing gender or same-gendering, it is still using gender for sex. Gender hierarchy is either beingplayed with or played out’ (MacKinnon, 2006: 273). For feminists who rec-ognise gender as a hierarchy, playing with it cannot form part of a futurethat is friendly to women’s interests, because women’s freedom requires theabolition of gender.‘Gender’ in transgender theoryThe most dangerous legacy of queer theory and politics for feminism is theway in which it paved the way for the politics of transgenderism, by creat-ing the notion that transposing gender is somehow revolutionary. Althoughqueer theory is social constructionist, and posits that transgenderism showsthe mutability of gender rather than the reverse, it has been enlisted to jus-tify a transgenderism that is essentialist and, for many of its adherents, seenas based in biology. In the academy, where queer theory has become theorthodox way to understand gender in women’s studies and lesbian and gaystudies, there is no critique of even the most biologistic versions of trans-genderism. Transgenderism has been able to exploit the way in which queertheory has removed ‘gender’ from its basis in the subordination of womenand made it into an aspect of consumerism, something to be assumed andplayed with, and inscribed on the body, something that can be bought andpaid for through hormones and surgery.Out of queer theory, the new discipline of transgender studies emerged,which is taking up the space once occupied by lesbian and gay studies orwomen’s studies and is the new sexy kid on the block. In transgender studies,gender doesn’t look very playful at all and is in fact represented as compul-sory, something that everyone has to have. Conscientious objection, that isthe conscious and political rejection of gender, is not possible. Thus RikkiWilchins, the spokesperson of the campaigning transgender organisationGenderPAC, argues, from his position as a man who has transgendered, thatthough feminists have problems accepting transgenderism as progressive theyshould do so because they all need ‘gender’, ‘Because, right now, the women’scommunity is not totally on speaking terms with the drag and transgendercommunity … They don’t yet realize that they all have a common stakein gender’ (Drescher, 2002 : 72). Wilchins opines that lesbians and gay menshould be supportive and inclusive towards transgenders because ‘[g]ay peoplehave always been about gender. That’s how your mother “just knew” some-one was gay’ (Drescher, 2002 : 73). Psychotherapist David Seil, who workswith persons who aspire to transgender, argues that lesbians and gay men are‘on a continuum with transgendered people … We all are on that continuum,including heterosexual men and women’ (Seil, : 33). Female-bodiedtransgender Jamison Green argues similarly, saying that it is not possible toquestion the need for gender since it is the necessary basis of human inter-action: ‘Everyone uses gender to communicate’ (Green, 1999 : 126). Clearly,within these understandings, there is no way out of gender, and lesbian andgay conscientious objectors are seen as charlatans, failing to recognise theways in which they too are inevitably and fundamentally gendered.Genderqueers replace lesbiansThe queer understanding of ‘gender’ has had a profound infl uence on les-bian communities, with young women in some parts of American queerculture, who would once have understood themselves to be both lesbiansand women, now identifying as ‘genderqueer’. It is from this milieu thatthe strongly developing trend for lesbians to transgender emerged in thelast decade. The transgendering of lesbians not only fractures communi-ties but disappears lesbians themselves as they reject womanhood, and thisimpoverishes feminism profoundly since lesbian feminist politics was central to second wave feminism (Faderman, 1997 ). Lesbians were crucial to devel-oping the theory, and doing the work of feminism. They were prominentin creating services to support women who suff ered male violence, suchas rape crisis centres and refuges, and in setting up the basic institutionsthat created a women’s culture, bookstores, women’s centres, presses, musicgroups and theatre companies. They provided, too, the ethical core of fem-inist politics on sexuality and relationships (Card, 1991 ; Raymond, 1986 ).Lesbian feminist ethics were based on creating and practising a sexuality ofequality that eschewed the eroticising of power diff erence in the form ofbutch/femme role playing or sadomasochism. Lesbian feminists created ajournal in the United States called Lesbian Ethics and wrote books on ethics(Hoagland, 1988 ). The lesbian core of second wave feminism created theculture and spaces in which all women could relax, strategise, and developstrength. Importantly, the core of lesbian feminism was separatism (Frye, ). Lesbian feminists chose to live separately from men and to socialiseand develop community in spaces that were women-only. The takeover ofwomen’s spaces by queer and transgender politics has led to the erosion ofthe sense of solidarity and community that is so important to the strength ofa feminist movement. The entryism of men who transgender into women’sspaces has helped to fracture lesbian communities, by extirpating the envir-onments that have nurtured women’s resistance and rebellious thinking andtheir ability to love one another.The eff ect of the rise of queer politics, combined with the decline oflesbian feminist politics, was the development of ‘genderqueer’ communi-ties in place of lesbian communities in some areas of the United States inparticular. For lesbian feminism – or indeed feminism – to exist, it is neces-sary for women to be able to think of themselves as women and as lesbians.But this is very hard for many young lesbians in the present, who come outinto a queer community in which only manhood has value. They may haveextremely fragmented identities, which make them unable to accept them-selves as women and lesbians. This is clear in a study in which young womenwho once might have called themselves lesbians were interviewed (Bauer, ). The young women engage in sadomasochism, or BDSM (bond-age, discipline and sadomasochism), and could ‘choose and negotiate rolesand identities for play’ (Bauer, 2008 : 234). They identifi ed in the followingways: ‘white bisexual femme’, ‘white pansexual genderqueer femme’, ‘whitequeer transgendered stone butch’, ‘white queer genderqueer femmeboy’,‘white queer femme’. The study explains ‘genderqueer’ thus:While genderqueers do not identify full time as either men or women,they do not conceive of themselves as in the middle of the spectrum orandrogynous either. Their gender is rather fl uid (shifting) and multipleat the same time, which means that their positioning within a variety ofgenders depends on the context. For example, a person might expressa femme side in an encounter with a butch and express a fag partialidentity with a gay transguy the next day.(Bauer, 2008 : 238)The author defi nes herself as ‘a white German, queer, polyamorous, BDSMtop, and transfag with a working-class and activist background’ (Bauer, 2008 :). The term ‘lesbian’ does not appear in such self-descriptions.Indeed, some lesbian academics argue that the ‘lesbians’ in the lesbiancommunity may cease to exist as a separate category as ‘[m]any young peopleare embracing a more fl uid role in terms of their sexual orientation andgender identity’ (Weiss, 2007 : 208). Their sexuality is described as ‘fl uid’,meaning that ‘[q]ueer-identifi ed young women are likely to have sex withqueer-identifi ed young men, and consider it a queer relationship. Masculinelabels such as “boy” and “daddy” are not considered taboo by women’s com-munities’ (ibid.). This erasure of lesbian existence, to quote Adrienne Rich(Rich, 1980 ), is called a move ‘away from essentialism and towards universal-ism’ in which ‘academics of this new generation’ may not bother to ‘distin-guish clearly a fi eld of “Lesbian” Studies, or any sexuality-based disciplines’(Weiss, 2007 : 209).Genderqueer ‘fl uidity’ may create a problem for these young women asthey seek to situate themselves in the world and attend to their health. Astudy of the problems that lesbians, and especially those who transgender,have in accessing health care suggests that their lack of a secure identitycreates problems in this respect. They have difficulty defi ning themselves;‘Gender-queer-identifi ed and Transmale-identifi ed youth often strugglefor language to describe their own or their transgender peers’ or partners’understandings of themselves’ (Welle et al . 2006 : 46). The study suggests thatit is the gender studies and queer studies programmes taken by these gen-der and transidentifi ed young women that caused them to have such frag-mented and complex notions of who they were, as they ‘had all participatedin critical gender studies and queer studies courses and referenced academicdiscourse to frame LGBT and queer identities’ (Welle et al ., 2006 : 48). Onerespondent, Samantha, says that a ‘fi xed identity is limited and limiting’ andthat ‘fag culture or style’, or possibly some ‘dyked-out version of it’, rep-resents what she does. The young people in the study who were involvedin sadomasochist sexual practice used the language of tops and bottomsfrom gay male culture to describe what they did in sexual role playing. Thearticle concludes that ‘“more complexity” may be accompanied by uniquevulnerabilities’ (Welle et al ., 2006 : 66). Such studies indicate that the clearfeminist critique of what were at called sex roles or sex stereotypes, and only later commonly referred to as ‘gender’, was undermined by the adventof queer and poststructuralist ideas in the 1990s. But they indicate the dis-appearance of lesbians too.Lesbian feminist academic, Bonnie Zimmerman, has evinced concernabout this, suggesting that lesbian feminism barely survives as a recognisedway of being a lesbian today in the United States. She warns that lesbianscould disappear becausein many locations, and many ways the discourses of lesbians – and spe-cifi cally, Lesbian Feminism, have been all but silenced. This leads to theappropriation of our work … the vilifi cation of our values and contin-ued existence, and the misrepresentation and ahistorical constructionof the past thirty years.(Zimmerman, 2008 : 50)The understanding of themselves as women and lesbians that formed thefi rm and necessary foundation of organising by second wave feminists hasdissipated, in a way that creates difficulties for a new wave of activism, butthere is evidence from online radical feminism that a new generation ofyoung lesbians are developing their own form of lesbian feminism for newtimes. However, as transgender activism developed, during the same period inwhich feminism was under attack from queer and postmodern theory, thesenew forms of theory were employed to build the ideology that underpinstransgender studies, and enable an onslaught on varieties of feminism thatthreaten the importance of gender as a grail. It is in this context, in that thevery existence of ‘women’ and ‘lesbians’ has become doubtful, that ‘trans-gender feminism’ has been able to create a place for itself.Transgender ‘feminism’Transgender ‘feminism’ argues that gender diff erence and femininity mustbe protected from the feminists who seek to demolish them. These theoristsmodel ‘femininity’ on their own view, as men who consider themselves trans-gender, of what ‘womanhood’ is, i.e. pleasure in acting out the female sex rolestereotype. Feminist theorists of the second wave saw it as crucially import-ant to wrench the idea of what a woman is away from patriarchal ideologiesand institutions and recreate it in a way suited to women’s liberation. In suchfeminist work, male ideologues were accused of appropriating and colonis-ing women’s experience and existence (Millett, 1972 ). The institutions andideologies that were identifi ed as mediating the subordination of womenare religion and the church, psychoanalysis and the medical profession, theso-called sciences of sociology and anthropology and the institutions of thestate (de Beauvoir, 1973 , published 1949; Wittig, 1992 ). All the discip-lines of universities, as Monique Wittig points out, can be seen to constitutethe ‘straight mind’, that is ideas based on seeing women as complementary tomen within the framework of heterosexuality (Wittig, 1992 ). These theoristshave examined how the idea of woman has been constructed, and pointedout that this idea serves to justify male dominance. Importantly, the idea ofwoman is founded in the notion of an inevitable – and essential, usually bio-logical – diff erence between the sexes. This ‘diff erence’ meant that womanwas to be a helpmeet to man, to pleasure him, live under this control, pro-vide children and a home, and display certain qualities that delighted him,an interest in fashion, display of the body, deference, feminine gestures anddeportment. In the light of this, it should be a matter of some concern thatmen who transgender are retaking the opportunity to state what women areand should be, shape what feminism is and promote similar stereotypes. Onceagain men are exercising their authority in defi ning what women are.The upshot of an atmosphere of acceptance, and indeed welcome, of trans-genderism within the queer and postmodern feminist academy was the bur-geoning of ‘transgender feminism’, whose creators and exponents are mainlymen who transgender and reject entirely the form of feminism that eschewsgender, and, instead, construct feminism as a movement for the celebration ofgender stereotypes. This male-designed feminism has become so prominentwithin the feminist academy that, in 2011, for example, Indiana Universityhosted a conference entitled Postposttranssexual: Transgender Studies andFeminism (CSGS, 2011 ), and in 2012 at the University of California therewas a ‘research cluster’ entitled ‘Queer, Feminist and Transgender Studies’(DHI Research Cluster, n.d.), as if these currents of thought were compat-ible. In 2013 the Department of Women’s Studies and Feminist Research atWestern University in Canada will off er a subject called ‘An to Transgender Studies’. Moreover, men who transgender are increasinglyengaged to lecture to women about feminism as keynote speakers at fem-inist conferences, an example being the 22nd Annual Women and SocietyConference in Poughkeepsie, New York in 2013. At this event the keynotewas given by Kate Bornstein, whose perspective on women and society, asa man who has transgendered, will inevitably be very diff erent from that ofwomen, that is, persons with female bodies who did not choose their subor-dinate status, but were placed into it at birth (Culture Lab, 2013 ).One infl uential exponent of ‘transgender feminism’ is Julia Serano, authorofWhipping Girl :A Transsexual Woman on Sexism and the Scapegoating ofFemininity ( 2007 ). Serano has a classic cross-dresser profi le. He explains thathe did not consider himself to be female until he was eleven years old and didnot want to do girls’ activities at school, though he had a sexual fantasy lifeof being turned into a girl: ‘I did not have the quintessential trans experience of always feeling that I should have been born female’ (Serano, 2007 : 78).He realised he was female when he had the urge to dress in a lace curtainat eleven (an experience unlikely to have been shared by many females): ‘Itwasn’t until the age of eleven that I consciously recognized these subcon-scious feelings as an urge or desire to be female … I found myself inexplic-ably compelled to remove a set of white, lacy curtains from the window andwrap them around my body like a dress’ (Serano, 2007 : 79). This importantforce in the creation of transfeminism decided he was somehow female in thebrain – ‘it seems as if, on some level, my brain expects my body to be female’when he realised he was sexually excited by clothing associated with women,and by curtains (Serano, 2007 : 80).Serano seeks to reinvent ‘feminism’ to fi t his erotic interests. Since he isturned on by the accoutrements of femininity, he is angry that many femi-nists are critical of it. He states that feminists misunderstand femininity, ‘Evenmany feminists buy into traditionally sexist notions about femininity: thatit is artifi cial, contrived, and frivolous; that it is a ruse that only serves thepurpose of attracting and appeasing the desires of men’. It is not true, hesays, ‘that femininity is subordinate to masculinity’, nor that it is ‘artifi cial’ or‘performance’; in fact, ‘certain aspects of femininity (as well as masculinity)are natural and can both precede socialization and supersede biological sex’(Serano, 2007 : 6). The job of feminism, according to Serano, is to ‘empower’femininity, because ‘[n]o form of gender equality can ever truly be achieveduntil we work to empower femininity itself ’ (ibid.). He explains, ‘I makethe case that feminist activism and theory would be best served by workingto empower and embrace femininity, rather than eschewing or deriding it,as it often has in the past’ (Serano, 2007 : 9). He chastises feminists for havingsomehow got everything wrong.Transgender activists such as Serano have developed a new vocabulary toadvance their political agenda. One of these new terms is ‘cis’, which theyapply to all those who are not unhappy with their ‘gender’. In eff ect the term‘cis’ creates two kinds of women, those with female bodies who are labelled‘cisgender’, and those with male bodies who are ‘transwomen’. Women, thoseborn female and raised as women, thus suff er a loss of status as they are rel-egated to being just one kind of woman and their voices will have to com-pete on a level playing fi eld with the other variety, men who transgender. Inthis ideology, everyone has a gender, and those who have a ‘gender’ that fi tstheir ‘biological bodies’ have ‘cisprivilege’, which advantages them over trans-genders who are not comfortable with what Serano calls their ‘birth’ gender.Transgenders, he says, are oppressed by ciswomen, who do not recognise theirprivilege and do not seek to work off their guilt by supporting the demandsand needs of oppressed transgender people who are more oppressed thanwomen. Cispersons, that is women, are often guilty of ‘ Cissexism , which isthe belief that transsexuals’ identifi ed genders are inferior to, or less authenticthan, those of cissexuals (i.e., people who are not transsexual and who haveonly ever experienced their subconscious and physical sexes as being aligned)’(Serano, 2007 : 12) (emphasis in original). Examples of cissexism, apparently,include ‘purposeful misuse of pronouns or insisting that the trans person usea diff erent public restroom’. The concept of cissexism is employed by trans-gender activists to guilt-trip women into silence or support for their cause,and the addition of a prefi x has political eff ects such as precluding feministanalysis of the situation of women. Moreover, transgender activists adjurewomen to refer to themselves as ‘cis’ even when speaking among themselves,free from the presence of men who consider themselves transgender. Thetransgender blogger T-girl, for instance, tells women in a guide how ‘cis-women’ should relate to men who transgender but retain their penises andwish to date them: ‘Please adopt this language, even when trans people arenot around’ (Savannah, 2013 ). The article is published on Autostraddle , a web-site run by lesbians for the LGBT community. Feminism is a political move-ment that started from being angry at men telling women who they are andwhen and how they should speak. For this reason, this kind of advice froma man in possession of a ‘lady stick’ – as penises are referred to in the trans-gender community – that women should police their conversations and onlydescribe themselves in ways that could give no off ence to such men, couldlook rather quaintly old fashioned in its arrogance and should, perhaps, beseen as an exercise of male power.The term misogyny is also redefi ned by transgender activists so that itmeans disparagement of the femininity that is attractive to cross-dressers, asSerano comments, ‘ misogyny will be used to describe this tendency to dismissand deride femaleness and femininity’ (Serano, 2007 : 14). According to thislogic feminists are mostly misogynists because they seek to abolish femininity,the behaviour of the underclass, and gender in general. As Serano explains,‘When a transperson is ridiculed or dismissed’, they become ‘victims of aspecifi c form of discrimination: trans-misogyny ’ (Serano 2007 : 15) (emphasisin original). This kind of verbal sleight of hand is a good example of whatradical feminist theorist Mary Daly describes as ‘patriarchal reversal’ (Daly, : 79). Transgender ideology is full of such reversals, in which the mater-ial reality of biological and existential womanhood is usurped by men whofantasise about being women.The new language silences women and feminists. Any statements orbehaviours that off end men who transgender, such as political criticism orlack of enthusiasm on the part of lesbians for relationships with men with‘lady sticks’, are labelled ‘transphobia’. This word owes its origin to the term‘homophobia’, which is not the most useful of terms because it implies thathatred of homosexuals is some form of psychological problem rather than a politics. Discussion of what transgender activists are doing or saying can thusbe labelled irrational as well as discriminatory and hateful. Feminist criticism,of course, is far from irrational and based in decades of theorising and prac-tice, but through transgender sleight of hand it can be buried in loud boosand hisses and accusations of transphobia before it can reasonably be heardor considered.The transimposition of their particular version of politically correct lan-guage has the eff ect of making it difficult to mention women’s bodily pro-cesses. Even the observation that menstruation is a function of persons whoare female can be labelled transphobic. In a book on menstruation from this scientifi c fact is proclaimed unacceptable because it disturbs the sens-ibilities of women who transgender and like to think they are not actuallywomen:radical menstruation activists have changed the language of menstru-ation to talk about ‘menstruators’ rather than ‘women who menstruate.’This choice of language not only refl ects a commitment to a moreinclusive (including trans people) movement but also demonstrates thepolitical importance of gender neutral language and dismantling thenarrowness and restrictiveness of gender binaries.(Worcester, 2013 : 151)In similar advice in the newsletter of the environmental group Earth First,women are told not to describe their bodies and reproductive processes asfemale: ‘I am a birth educator, and with a lot of practice I have been able toreplace cissexist language with more neutral terms like “birthing person,”“parent,” “breastfeeding person” etc. … Changing cissexist language mayseem like a lot of work, but it makes such a diff erence for trans people. Justdo it!’ (Hollis, 2013 ). Serano refers to himself as an ‘infertile woman’ andclaims to fi nd ‘contraception-focused’ feminism ‘alienating’ (Scum-o-rama, ). Issues related to reproduction are of great importance to women, ofcourse, but may be boring for men who want ‘feminism’ to concentrate ontheir interest in impersonating women.A useful resource providing insights into how both men and women aca-demics who transgender seek to reconfi gure feminism to suit their interestsis the collection Transfeminist Perspectives (Enke (ed.), 2012 ). It is edited byAnne Enke, a self-described ‘transfeminist teacher and activist’ who has a‘vested interest in keeping the categories woman, and trans* [ sic ] wide open’(Enke, 2012a : 77). Enke says that he is someone who ‘peed standing up as achild, who spent more than twenty years terrifi ed that someone would dis-cover that I was “really” male, and who passes almost consistently as a woman’(Enke, 2012a : 71). Enke grew back his beard in 2012 and now wears it with abraid/plait. He has the privilege of being able to use whatever toilet he wantswithout being queried because of his high status at the university but remainsso angry at not feeling entirely welcome in the women’s facility, thatI go there, braided and bearded, and am furious to discover the options… I can walk through either door, and I will not be physically or ver-bally assaulted. I enter the one that says ‘women’ … I kick the door ashard as I can on my way out.(Enke, 2012a : 73)Such an act of aggression may well undermine Enke’s mission to be recog-nised as a woman.Enke argues, as is common in the transgender version of feminism, thatboth gender and sex are socially constructed: ‘Gender, and also sex, are madethrough complex social and technical manipulations that naturalize somewhile abjecting others’ (ibid.). All bodies, Enke argues, are ‘made’, and theproblem with many feminists is that they believe that there is a diff erencebetween men’s bodies and women’s bodies and that that diff erence of bio-logical sex matters. In fact, he states, all bodies are ‘made, one kind of bodyno more or less technologically produced than the other’, and ‘feminist,queer, disability, and critical-race theorists, trans studies’ recognise this. Somefeminists, though, ‘preserve sex as a category’ and presume ‘that there is aknowable diff erence between male and female bodies’ (Enke, 2012b : 6). Itis quite hard to know what Enke means here, since the reproductive diff er-ences between male and female bodies, breasts that can lactate, wombs andmenstruation, non-surgical vaginas, penises, testes, are all objectively ‘know-able’ except in the argument of someone trying to deny common sense. Infact, Enke points out that ‘the vast majority of transsexual people and peoplewith signifi cant cross-gender identifi cation will have no genital surgeries’(ibid.), so the diff erences will be quite clear to the naked eye. Transfeminism,it seems, is based on a rather mystical principle that there is no such thing asbiology. Enke makes a land grab for feminism itself, arguing that it is but avariety of transgender practice: ‘most feminists should be seeing feminism asa transgender phenomenon: Some version of gender self-determination andresistance to binary gender norms and oppressions has always been central tofeminism’ (Enke, 2012b : 5).Feminism is not just under attack from men who transgender, however.Jean Bobby Noble, a female academic who has transgendered, demonstratesconsiderable hostility towards feminism for its focus on female bodies (Noble, ). Noble accuses feminists of ‘panic’ about gender and says there is ‘inces-sant repetition of panic over trans entities in the house of feminism’ (Noble, : 59) (emphasis in original). Feminists, it seems, are hysterical rather than having well thought out ideas about women being the foundation of thefeminist project. Noble adds another insulting term to the critique of femin-ism by arguing that feminists are ‘fundamentalists’.Doesn’t the gender-panicked imperative to ‘remember the women’mark an unequivocal gender fundamentalism, where such fundamen-talisms themselves – not unlike those of nationalism, military-state,white-supremacist, or Christian, to name only a few – function toground a feminist imaginary and its methodology of social, moral,and biological coercive normalization?(Noble, 2012 : 50)Noble uses the language of warfare to describe the campaign to make feministsbow to transgender priorities: ‘Trans entities’ are having to ‘slowly fi ght theirway into institutionalized feminist spaces’ (Noble, 2012 : 57).Another important exponent of transgender feminism is the muchrespected Australian professor and theorist of gender, Robert Connell, whotransgendered late in life and now calls himself Raewyn Connell. Connellwrites and lectures on transgenderism and feminism (Connell, 2011 , 2012 ).He describes criticisms of transgenderism made by Jeff reys and other femi-nists as ‘attacks’. Connell proclaims that the campaign by feminists to abolishgender is inappropriate because gender should be maintained:The current in metropolitan feminism that hopes to abolish gender ordissolve the gender order has had strong appeal in the past two decades.But in the long run, transsexual women will fi nd more relevance in theattempt to create just gender orders.(Connell, 2012 : 873)In ‘just gender orders’, gender will be retained but there will be less inequal-ity between genders. In fact, the idea of a ‘just gender order’ is an oxymoronsince gender is a hierarchy and in the absence of inequality would not exist.It is hard to know how inequality can be rendered ‘just’. Despite his statusand the esteem in which his contribution to feminist theory has been held,he ends up on the same trajectory as Julia Serano, towards the necessary pro-tection of femininity.The silencing of dissentAlongside the direct confrontation that transgender activists are staging withfeminist theory, there are many other ways in which their campaigning dam-ages the gains of second wave feminism. Some of these will be discussedlater in this volume, such as the campaign to enter women-only spaces andwomen-only services and the promotion of the transgendering of children.Other direct onslaughts on feminism and feminists will be considered here,such as the vilifying of, and attempts to silence, the work of feminist activistsand theorists. It is important to transgender activists that they should be ableto silence the feminist, sociological and scientifi c criticism of their practice,because much of the critique is easily understandable and likely to be readilyembraced by a critical public if it gains publicity. The main method adoptedto eff ect this silencing consists of campaigns of hatred and vilifi cation to des-troy the reputations of critics and to deny them spaces to speak or publishtheir work. If a person is known to have ever been critical of the practiceof transgenderism the transgender activists seek to get them banned fromspeaking about any topic at all or harass them at venues. I was banned fromspeaking at a conference in London in July 2012, which was due to takeplace at the well-known venue, Conway Hall, as a result of the campaigningof transgender activists (Jeff reys, 2012a ). The organisers were informed bythe venue operators that I would not be allowed to speak after the activistshad applied pressure and accused me of hate speech. I was banned on thegrounds that I fostered ‘hatred’ and was guilty of active discrimination. Onbeing asked to provide proof for this, Conway Hall appeared to compare meto ‘David Irving the holocaust denier’. The proff ered evidence consisted ofquotes from my work arguing that transgender surgery should be considereda human rights violation – hardly evidence of hate speech. The feminist aca-demic Germaine Greer was glitter-bombed in New Zealand in 2012 at abook signing by transgender activists for being critical of the practice in herbook The Whole Woman and in other remarks (Gray, 2012 ).Infl uential feminist opinion columnists receive similar treatment. InJanuary 2013 the Guardian columnist, Suzanne Moore, became the object ofserious and aggressive bullying by transgender activists because she opinedthat women were expected, in their appearance, to resemble Brazilian trans-sexuals (Moore, ). This led to a quite vicious campaign against heron social media. Moore replied with exasperation and the campaign wasramped up, with violent insults and threats explicitly directed against herfemale biology. Tweets included the sentiments that Moore was a ‘cunt’, ‘acompletely horrifi c bag of trash’, a ‘cunted cunt’, ‘transmisogynist arseholeextraordinaire’, ‘a piss stain on the pants of fascism’. She was told that sheneeded to be ‘entered’, and, ‘Guess who secretly wants to fuck all the transchicks’. One commented, ‘I will cut your face off and feed it to the wolves’(GenderTrender, 2013 ). In defence of Moore, Julie Burchill, another well-known and controversial columnist, wrote a piece critical of transgenderismin the Observer newspaper (Young, 2013 ). The transgender activist campaignagainst the Burchill piece led to its removal from the website and the issuing of an apology to the activists (Sweeney, 2013 ). In response, many malestreamnewspapers and feminist blogs chose to publish Burchill’s piece and complainthat the censorship of her was unreasonable. Transgender views are well rep-resented in the Guardian and the Observer , with a number of men who havetransgendered, such as Jane Fae, Roz Kaveney and Juliet Jacques, having regu-lar columns in which they promote transgender ideology, criticise feminismand describe their transitions in very considerable detail. But these liberalnewspapers, which seek to be politically correct, very rarely publish materialthat raises any kind of questions about the practice.This harassment is so abusive, including copious taunts of ‘Die cis scum’directed at any feminists that are transcritical (They say this never happens, ), that it suggests considerable rage on the part of the transgender activ-ists involved. In acknowledgement of this, transgender psychotherapist, AnneLawrence, has provided an explanation (Lawrence, 2008 ). Lawrence arguesthat the level of anger and abuse, including threats of extreme violenceincluding death, could be accounted for by ‘narcissistic rage’, that is a formof rage experienced by persons who have suff ered from shame and react inextreme and aggressive ways when they are challenged because of their his-tory of feeling inferior. Whatever the explanation, the very determined andvituperative campaigns against critics suggest a great anxiety by transgenderactivists about the possibility that their practice could be rethought, and thattheir interpretations might not be the only ones that should be allowed anairing in the public domain.At a time when feminism was experiencing backlash from many directions,the impact of queer and postmodern theory undermined the possibility thatacademic feminists and feminist communities could stand up to the challengeposed by the entryism of men who transgender into the movement. Oncequeer theory had made the category ‘woman’ questionable and promoted thetransgressive nature of playing with gender, the transgender project was hardto criticise. The result is that not only has there been no critique of trans-genderism from feminist scholars in recent decades, but transgender ideol-ogy has been welcomed into the feminist academy where students may betaught to deride the important work of second wave feminists on this issue,learn new politically correct language that makes it very difficult to articulatewomen’s interests, and become radically uncertain about their sex and sexu-ality. The transgender project of promoting femininity as the proper focus offeminism has made considerable inroads into an academic feminism, whichhas, to a large extent, lost its way and failed to support women and feministscholarship. There has been no feminist scholarship in recent decades that iscritical, for example, of the harmful hormonal and surgical treatments thatare used to transgender women and men, despite much incisive feminist criti-cism of such treatments when directed at women in the form of cosmeticsurgery and hormone replacement therapy. The next chapter will seek toshow that such a critique is urgently needed and contribute towards openingup a transcritical space on the mental and physical health of those who aretransgendered.This chapter examines the harmful eff ects of the practice of transgenderismon the health and functioning of transgenders themselves. The transgenderstudies literature is generally celebratory and does not cover the harm to thehealth of individual transgenders from their medical treatment. Moreover, itdisregards the increasingly common problem of ‘transgender regret’, that isthe feelings of survivors of the treatment who consider that they have beenwrongly diagnosed and may wish to have reconstructive surgery so that theycan repair surgical harms. While feminist scholars have explored the harmfuleff ects of other areas of hormone treatment and cosmetic surgery, and cre-ated sophisticated theoretical critiques of the medical industry that wreaksthis damage on women (Haiken, 1997 ; Sullivan, Deborah A., 2001 ), there isno such critique, apart from the early pioneering work of Janice Raymond,of transgender treatment (Raymond, 1979/1994). This is the case despite thefact that many of the surgeries and treatments are the same as those that haveharmful eff ects upon women. Prolonged hormone treatment, for instance,is used on women in the forms of the contraceptive pill and implants, andon postmenopausal women when it is called hormone replacement therapy(HRT), precisely the same term that is applied to similar drug regimes whenused on women and men who have been transgendered. The surgeons whooff er cosmetic treatments to enable women to play the feminine part alsooff er cosmetic breast and facial surgeries to men who wish to play a similarrole. But the feminist critique of cosmetic surgery has not been extended tothe similar treatment of transgenders.This chapter will bridge this divide and criticise the harms to the bod-ies of its victims of what Janice G. Raymond calls The Transsexual Empire( 1979 /1994), which consists of those parts of the medical profession, and thosepharmaceutical companies, that rely on transgendering men, women andchildren for their profi ts. In the early twenty-century, sex-reassignmentsurgery (SRS) is common worldwide from small towns in the United Statesto developing countries. It is an important part of the medical tourism indus-try of Thailand and of the economy of the small town of Trinidad in thestate of Colorado, for instance (Bucar and Enke, 2011 ). An example of theavoidance of such topics is a chapter in the collection Transgender FeministPerspectives (Enke (ed.), 2012 ), ostensibly concerned with fi tting the practiceof transgenderism into political economy theory, and subtitled ‘Notes on theRelationship between Critical Political Economy and Trans Studies’ (Irving, ). I was intrigued and thought some of these problematic issues mightat last be approached. But the chapter turns out to be concerned with whois able to aff ord the treatments, and contains nothing about the internationalmedical tourism industry that services those seeking surgery, and nothingon who is making the profi ts, the drug companies, hospitals and surgeons,psychiatrists and therapists. Such considerations are not part of transgenderstudies, though they are an important part of feminist studies. This chap-ter describes the treatment options for both male and female-bodied trans-genders and details the consequences and side eff ects. It uses informationfrom the websites of transgender support organisations, medical literature,and interviews with one male and one female transgender regretter to gainan understanding of how the mental and physical health of those who trans-gender is aff ected.The effi cacy of sex reassignment – medical disagreementHistorically, there has been far from universal agreement as to the efficacy oftreatment for persons identifi ed as transsexual/transgender. The term ‘efficacy’is widely used in the medical literature on the practice but not well defi ned.In this chapter I understand the ‘efficacy’ of treatment to relate to the degreeof improvement in mental health without injury to physical health. Sincethe 1950s and 1960s when some endocrinologists such as Harry Benjaminwere seeking to legitimise body changing treatment for transsexuals, therehave been doctors and psychiatrists who did not agree that a problem ofthe mind should be treated with physical therapies. As early as the 1970s, DrJon Meyer conducted an evaluation of the success of the treatment at theJohns Hopkins Gender Identity Clinic, which led him to the conclusion thatphysical therapies were ineff ective (Meyer and Reter, 1979 ). He does not seetransgenderism as an innate condition that should be affirmed by surgery, butsees the request for sex change as essentially ‘problematic’, and he wants to‘step back from “normalization” of sex-reassignment procedures in order tolook objectively at the long-range eff ects of surgery’ (Meyer and Reter, 1979 :). Meyer and Reter document the fi ndings of the small number of pre-vious evaluations of the eff ectiveness of treatment, none of which support the overwhelmingly positive message that issues from transgender activists today.Meyer’s conclusion after his evaluation of fi fty persons, including a compari-son between those who asked for surgery and got it and those who wererefused, was that ‘Sex reassignment surgery confers no objective advantagein terms of social rehabilitation, although it remains subjectively satisfying’(Meyer and Reter, 1979 : 1015). Meyer’s critique of transgender treatmentcontains no trace of a feminist perspective. Like other psychiatrists of hisera he was keen to blame women, usually mothers, for the psychologicalproblems of his patients. He attributes gender identity problems in womenand girls to mothers who have ‘signifi cant character pathology’, possess ‘penisenvy’ and ‘a sense of the unfairness of a woman’s “lot” (penetration, menstru-ation, gestation)’ (Meyer, 1982 : 410).Paul McHugh, who became Head of Psychiatry at Johns HopkinsUniversity in the 1970s, upon seeing the lack of evidence for the efficacy ofsurgery stated, ‘Hopkins was fundamentally cooperating with a mental illness.We psychiatrists, I thought, would do better to concentrate on trying to fi xtheir minds and not their genitalia’ (McHugh, 2004 ). McHugh stopped thepractice of SRS at Johns Hopkins in 1979 and other university clinics fol-lowed suit. This critique continues in the present but has become much moremuted as a result of the normalisation of the practice and the burgeoningof the ‘transsexual empire’. Nonetheless, one strong contemporary critiquecomes from the psychiatrist Az Hakeem, who works at the Portman Clinicin London, specialising in therapy with those seeking to be transgendered,and those who have been transgendered but continue to suff er distress. Ina book chapter aptly titled ‘Trans-sexuality: a case of “The Emperor’s NewClothes”’, he calls the notion of persons seeking to be transgendered thatthey are really of the other gender or sex an ‘overwhelming false belief ’ and a‘delusional disorder’ (Hakeem, 2007 : 184). He criticises the practice of treat-ing transgenderism as a biological condition that resides in the body and canbe cured through hormones and surgery, commenting that ‘It seems strangethat as psychiatrists we attempt to address an internal psychological confl ictwith an exterior surgical solution’ (Hakeem, 2007 : 183). He points out thatpsychiatrists who are ‘psychoanalytically informed’ are those most likely to becritical of the practice. One such critic is the French, feminist psychoanalyst,Colette Chiland (Chiland, 2004 ).There is still a remarkable absence of recent studies that follow up thosewho have SRS to fi nd out whether this treatment is efficacious despite thegreat expansion of the industry of transgendering. A 2011 long-term fol-low-up study from Sweden found that sex reassignment was not efficaciousbecause after sex reassignment transgenders had higher risks of psychiatricmorbidity, suicidal behaviour and mortality overall than the general popula-tion, when using controls of the same birth sex. The study concluded that ‘sexreassignment’ may alleviate ‘gender dysphoria’ but ‘may not suffice as treat-ment for transsexualism, and should inspire improved psychiatric and som-atic care after sex reassignment’ (Dhejne et al ., 2011 ). The voices of criticalmedical personnel, and the problems revealed by the few long-term evalua-tions, have not been successful in dampening the enthusiasm of the medicalprofession and pharmaceutical companies for this fashionable and profi table‘disorder’. Indeed, the public health service of the UK, the National HealthService, has endorsed the practice not just for adults but also for children(Department of Health, 2008 ).Identifying ‘real’ transgendersHealth professionals seek to identify those who have a ‘genuine’ gender iden-tity disorder, or gender dysphoria as it is renamed in the 2013 Diagnostic andStatistical Manual , and assert its essential nature as the justifi cation for treatingit. This is despite the fact that transgenderism is becoming an increasinglyslippery concept. And the idea that it is a disorder of any kind is in disputeby transgender activists themselves, some of whom argue that the hormonesand surgery should be elective and constitute ways of contouring the bodythat everyone should have the right to access via the public purse. Moreover,many transgenders in the present make no eff ort to support the idea thatthey are essentially members of the opposite sex. In Kristen Schilt’s study offemale-bodied transgenders, for instance, she found that some of her inter-viewees did not consider themselves men or male (Schilt, 2006 ). They weresimply women who had availed themselves of ‘top’ surgery, or may be takinghormones electively. Female-bodied transgender, Jean Bobby Noble, says thatthe borderlines between butches and transgenders are blurred and describesherself, a woman who was a lesbian and feminist for many years before shedecided to transgender, as ‘a guy who is half a lesbian’ (Noble, 2012 : 29).She says that she does not ‘fi nd my home in the word “lesbian” any longer(although that’s often my dating pool)’ (Noble, 2012 : 21). The prominent USmale-bodied transgender activist, Rikki Wilchins, now describes himself as a‘male-to-female-to-male transsexual’, and has given up any attempts to look‘feminine’, though he still uses the women’s toilets (Wilchins, 2013 ). Wilchinsis the founder of the transgender activist group Transsexual Menace; the cam-paigning group GenderPAC, which promotes the right to ‘gender’; and theencampment that lays siege to the Michigan Women’s Music Festival, CampTrans. The understanding of who is genuinely transgender becomes moreand more murky and insubstantial, at precisely the same time that more isbeing revealed about the harmful eff ects of the practice. The idea that thereis such an entity as a ‘real’ transsexual has become increasingly difficult tosupport. The task of identifi cation is muddied further by the campaign by part ofthe transgender rights movement to defeat the idea that the desire to tran-sition is a ‘mental disorder’. Rather, activists argue that transgenderism is anordinary expression of the human condition and should be available in thesame way as other forms of cosmetic surgery in which people seek to expressa desired appearance. Riki Wilchins is an infl uential exponent of this point ofview and states that transgenderism should not be seen as a mental disorderand that SRS is similar to the variety of cosmetic surgeries that some womenengage in. He complains that while his mother ‘can go into the hospitaltomorrow and she can get calf implants and chin implants, get her eyelids,her butt, and her tummy tucked, collagen put into her lips and collagen takenoff her thighs’, if he were to ‘go into the same hospital for a “groin job”’ heis seen as having a mental disorder (Drescher, 2002 : 79). Despite this deter-mination by some transgender activists to defeat the idea that transgenderismis evidence of poor mental health, there is considerable evidence that personswho transgender do suff er from a range of serious mental health problemsbefore, and often after, they transition.Psychological harmsThe main argument advanced for the efficaciousness of transgender treatmentis that it improves mental health, but there is a good deal of evidence that thisis not necessarily the case. The severity of the mental health problems of per-sons who aspire to transgender are clear in the clinical literature, with patientswho present at gender clinics having ‘levels of anxiety and depressive disordersthat are much higher than the general population’ (Nuttbrock et al ., 2010 : 13).However, as a result of the normalisation of transgenderism that has takenplace, the medical professionals who treat transgenders are reluctant to see thedesire to transgender as a symptom of this mental distress. Rather, in order tomatch the trans ideology that the desire to transgender is an entirely sane andreasonable ambition that should not be managed by medical gatekeepers, theconcept of ‘minority stress’ has been used in explanation of the psychologicaldistress that transgenders experience. ‘Minority stress’ is a concept developedin relation to gay men, meaning the psychological distress they experience as aresult of their minority status (Meyer, 1995 ). A form of this approach, adaptedto transgenderism, is ubiquitous in the voluminous clinical literature. If per-sons who transgender were unhappy children, for instance, then it is assumedthat this was because they were ‘really’ transgender even at that time. Mentalhealth professionals are advised that they should abandon misgivings and beaccepting of any claims by their patients to be transgender and avoid at all costsany negative responses or attempts to deter them from embarking on theirquest. To suggest that the mental health problems that transgenders experiencemay be the cause of transgenderism would, according to this literature, bemost reprehensible.A similar approach, the ‘disability model’, is now being promoted as bestpractice for dealing with transgender patients in a guide for UK hospi-tals produced by the Royal Free Hospital in Hampstead: ‘In understandingthe great difficulties in trans people’s lives, it is helpful to adopt the widelyaccepted disability model – that it is the barriers and obstacles presented insociety that cause the problems and not being trans in itself ’ (Thom andWeeks, 2010 ). According to this model, as in that of ‘minority stress’, thedistress that transgenders feel is the result of discrimination and prejudiceagainst them. The ‘minority stress’ approach and the ‘disability model’ havea lot of work to do to explain why the severe distress of those who trans-gender is so long-lasting, both before and after transition. One study takingthis approach, that the distress of transgenders is caused by abuse that isrelated to their gender identities and called ‘gender-related’ abuse, found thatlifetime major depression in the male-bodied transgenders who were stud-ied, at 54.3 per cent, was almost three times higher than the estimate for thegeneral population (Nuttbrock et al ., 2010 : 21). Lifetime suicidal ideation, at.5 per cent, was more than three times that for the general population.The use of concepts such as ‘gender-related’ abuse, ‘minority stress’, andthe disability model creates a context in which important questions cannotbe asked. It closes out the possibility that violence and sexual and physicalabuse may be causes of the desire to ‘transition’. There is some support inthe literature, though the research does not usually ask about this, for a con-nection between the experience of sexual violence and a determination totransgender. Holly Devor’s study of women who had transgendered found astrong association in information volunteered by interviewees, but did notask a question about violence (Devor, 1994 ). One study of attempted sui-cide among transgenders, which found that 60 per cent of participants weredepressed, also found that 59 per cent had been forced to have sex or raped,which, the authors consider, is one of the factors related to the high rate ofattempted suicide – 32 per cent in the sample (Clements-Nolle and Marx, ). The regretter who was interviewed for this book, Walt Heyer, whosewebsite and publications have led to his networking with large numbers ofsurvivors, considers that sexual abuse is an under-recognised contributor tothe desire to transgender. It played a role, he argues, in his case as he was ‘sexu-ally molested by my uncle before I was 10 years old for a 2–3 year period oftime’. The abuse took place after the uncle discovered that the grandmotherwas putting the boy child into feminine attire. In relation to female-bodiedtransgenders in particular, he says, ‘in every case where I have had a personalinvolvement with the family or the parents the kid was abused, every one ofthem!’ But recognition of this link would undermine the accepted belief in the medical profession that the distress of those who transgender is due onlyto ‘minority stress’, and so it is not the focus of research.The assumption behind hormonal and surgical treatments is that thesemental health problems will be alleviated but there is a good deal of evi-dence in terms of suicidality and depression, for instance, that this will notnecessarily be the case. One reason for this may be that social functioning isimpaired rather than improved by the practice, as persons who transgendermay fi nd it difficult to form relationships and may alienate their families. AGerman follow-up study after fi ve years found that 30 to 40 per cent of thepatients who had been very carefully selected for sex-reassignment surgerydid not ‘seem to benefi t fully from SRS’ in areas such as social, psychological,and psychiatric functioning (Bodlund and Kullgren, 1996 : 311). As well asnot providing redress for the psychological ills experienced by transgenders,the treatments by hormones and surgery are likely to create new and gravechallenges for health and functioning.Side effects of hormone treatmentThough some aspiring transgenders buy hormones on the black market,most will fi nd physicians willing to prescribe them. An increasing percentageof transgenders do not undertake surgery on their genitals though they mayhave mastectomies, or breast implants. However, most do take hormones andthe treatment is called ‘hormone replacement therapy’ or HRT. HRT waspromoted to women as a way to alleviate the distress they experienced whentheir allotted sex role of looking desirable for men was undermined by theaging process, and it was touted as a way to prevent menopausal symptoms. Itwas severely discredited in the early 2000s (Writing Group for the Women’sHealth Initiative Investigators, 2002 ). But, with the increasing use of HRTby transgenders, the drug companies have found a newly profi table form ofpsychological distress to exploit. Hormone usage has to be lifelong for thosewho wish to maintain an appearance of the opposite sex, or who need toavoid the premature menopause and problems for bone health involved inbeing without hormones. Profi ts will be increased by rising numbers of diag-noses, particularly if these take place at young ages and hook children intoseventy or eighty years of hormone use.As a result of the remarkable lack of long-term follow-up studies thereis little information on the eff ects of hormone treatment of transsexu-als (Schlatterer et al ., 1998 ). One short-term follow-up study warns, how-ever, that ‘cross-sex hormonal treatment may have substantial medical sideeff ects’ (Futterweit, 1998 : 209). It found that the main side eff ects of andro-gen therapy in female-bodied transgenders were: water and sodium reten-tion and occasional ‘cerebrovascular accidents’; increased erythropoiesis, i.e.overdevelopment of red blood cells, which may require bloodletting; decreasedcarbohydrate tolerance; decreased serum high-density lipoprotein cholesterol,which is an indicator of diseased arteries; liver enzyme abnormalities, whichcan indicate cancer risk; obesity; emotional or psychiatric problems including‘very frequent early increased aggressiveness, fl uctuating moods’; hypersexu-ality; ‘aff ective and/or psychotic symptoms’; and depression (Futterweit, 1998 :). The study warns against prolonged hormone treatment prior to surgerybecause of the risk of endometrial cancer. A study of two cases of long-termexposure to androgens leading to ovarian epithelial cancer concludes thatandrogen use is a risk factor for this form of cancer and recommends removalof ovaries in female-bodied transgenders (Hage, 2000 ).A 1980s evaluation by a team from the Dutch transgender industry foundvery worrying results (Asscheman et al ., 1989 ). They studied 425 ‘transsexual’patients for the ‘side eff ects of sex steroid treatment’ (Asscheman et al ., 1989 :). They found, as have other studies, a serious level of suicidality, with thenumber of deaths in men who transgendered being fi ve times the numberexpected when compared with men who did not transgender. But the studyalso found signifi cant adverse health eff ects from the hormone treatment.There was an increase in thromboembolic events (45-fold); in hyperprol-actinemia, that is excessive production of the hormone responsible for milksecretion in women’s breasts (400-fold); depressive mood changes (15-fold);and transient elevation of liver enzymes. The problems were diff erent and notas lethal for women who transgendered, consisting mainly of weight gain andacne, but both groups had persistent liver enzyme abnormalities. The studyconcluded that the ‘occurrence of serious side eff ects’ was ‘not rare’.A study of the way in which the hormone treatment took place foundthat there was very considerable inconsistency in dosage: ‘Typical transsex-ual estrogens were two to three times as high as the recommended doses forhormone replacement therapy (HRT) in postmenopausal women’ (Mooreet al ., 2003 : 3468). The authors point out that this is a serious concern con-sidering the fi ndings of the Women’s Health Initiative study where consider-ably lower levels of hormone usage were found to cause harm. The Women’sHealth Initiative study of 2002 found combined oestrogen and progestinincreased the risk of coronary heart disease, strokes, pulmonary embolismand invasive breast cancers in postmenopausal women on HRT (WritingGroup for the Women’s Health Initiative Investigators, 2002 ). For this rea-son, sustained use of a progestin is warned against, though some practition-ers are still using it for purposes such as enhancing breast growth (Mooreet al ., 2003 : 3469). The study on forms of hormone treatment concludedthat the ‘adverse eff ects of sex steroid therapy are real and apparent’ and itstates that ‘gender reassignment … should not be considered a cure’ (ibid.). Itfound that some patients, who procured hormones from a variety of sources, were on regimes of hormones that were twenty-one or even thirty timesgreater than in postmenopausal women. The study found that there was lit-tle research on the eff ects on women who transgender because the numberswere usually too small, but the authors considered that the risks for this groupmay be ‘underestimated’ as the ‘worrisome combination of increased weight,decreased insulin sensitivity, poor lipid profi les, and an increase in hematocrit(percentage of red blood cells) have raised the concern for cardiac and throm-boembolytic events’ (Moore et al ., 2003 : 3470). Another serious eff ect formale-bodied transgenders seems to be the possibility of breast cancer, withone study noting increased risk of breast cancer, deep vein thrombosis andosteoporosis, especially for older male-bodied transgenders (Persson, 2009 ).The National Health Service (NHS) in the UK admits that little researchhas been done on the long-term use of hormones in transgendered people,eff ectively admitting that this treatment is experimental. They write,‘Hormone treatment for trans people at reasonable dosages is remarkablysafe’ (NHS, 2007 : 11) but then proceed to list the potential side eff ects.They point out that taking oestrogen is associated with thrombosis, stroke,pulmonary embolism and altered liver function, and that taking testoster-one is associated with polycythaemia (overproduction of red blood cells)(NHS, 2007 ; Persson, 2009 ). The overproduction of red blood cells causesthe blood to become thicker than normal and can cause breathlessness andphlebitis (infl ammation of the veins), thus increasing the risk of heart diseaseand heart attack. For a practice that is ‘remarkably safe’, this is a surpris-ingly extensive list of serious side eff ects. All of these health problems areattached to a practice that, as we have seen, some authors have identifi ed as‘iatrogenic’, that is, caused by the faulty diagnosis that originated from themedical profession itself (Bullough, 2006 ). Though once what was called‘transsexualism’ was understood to require sex-reassignment surgery as wellas hormone consumption, this is not the case with transgenderism. Aspirantsare likely to take hormones but may not proceed to surgery, and, indeed, the Gender Recognition legislation in the UK requires neither hormonesnor surgery on the part of those receiving certifi cates to show they havechanged their sex (Jeff reys, 2008 ). For those who do go on to surgery otherserious harms are likely to result.Surgery and self-harmFor those transgenders who seek to change their bodies there are a numberof means that do not require access to the conventional medical system. Sometransgenders may not have the resources to use doctors, or may be lead-ing disorganised lives in which non-medical practices are more familiar andaccessible. They will often self-harm before they transition, through practicessuch as using street-bought hormones, injecting silicone into chest tissueand breast binding, practices that are outside medical supervision. They mayengage in cutting and piercing as other young people involved in body modi-fi cation do (Jeff reys, 2000 ; 2008 ). Body modifi ers have high suicidality andexhibit similar mental health problems to those who transgender (Jeff reys, ). Once body modifi ers become involved with the medical profession,their self-harm becomes official and is directed by doctors licensed by thestate. Doctors may be unlikely to recognise the legitimacy of a man’s desireto be a nullo (i.e. a body modifi cation practice of having all external genitalsamputated) and he would likely have to fi nd a professional piercer and cutterto do the job. They do, however, recognise transgenderism and put patientson regimes of hormones that will change their bodies, in some ways perman-ently, and direct them towards surgery to remove sexual characteristics. All ofthese practices infl ict harms upon the body, which include scarring, loss ofsensation, sterilisation, weight gain, acne, infection, necrosis of tissue and manymore problems, alongside the risks involved in undergoing anaesthesia.It is not always easy to distinguish the medical practices from those thatself-mutilators carry out on themselves in private, or engage others to practiseupon them. There can be a connection between self-harm in private, such asthat which young women in particular are likely to perform in their homes,and ‘self-mutilation by proxy’, that is practices in which women and menseek out others to infl ict dangerous physical harms to their bodies (Jeff reys, ). The proxies may be professionals in the cutting and piercing indus-try who brand and cut out designs from fl esh and are paid to do so, or theymay be tops in sadomasochism in which cutting, branding and piercing arecommon practices. They may also be medical doctors who legitimise self-mutilation by providing their services for a fee, such as cosmetic surgeonswho do breast implants and facelifts for women and those who performtransgender surgery.The harmful practice that an aspiring female-bodied transgender islikely to adopt, without medical oversight, is breast binding. Breast bind-ing is not a new practice, but was adopted by butch lesbians in the 1950s inthe United States and United Kingdom as a way to make them look moremasculine or to alleviate the dysphoria of loving women in clearly femalebodies, in an era when that was socially forbidden (Jeff reys, 1989 ). While theadvent of lesbian feminism in the 1970s enabled lesbians to have pride inloving women without having to ape men or negate female characteristics,the rebirth of butch and femme role playing, and now transgenderism, havemeant that in the last two decades breast binding has returned to the lesbiancommunity with a vengeance. Interestingly, breast binding is a practice thatwas a counterpart to foot binding in China until the 1920s (Chin, 2012 ).The practice was enforced on women to conceal their sexual characteristics and to conform with modesty requirements. Breasts were seen as too sexu-ally explicit and exciting to men. Presently, it is a Chinese cultural context,Taiwan, that is now an important source of binders for aspiring female-bod-ied transgenders who are keen to conceal their female sexual characteristics(see for example, T-Kingdom, accessed 20 February 2013 ).Among female-bodied transgenders, the desire to eliminate their breastsis strong and they are likely to use breast binding as a technique to hide theirbreasts in the lead-up to having them surgically removed. Breast binding leadsto a number of serious health problems. The Transguys website off ers adviceon what it calls ‘chest binding’, which is perhaps a more appealing term forwomen who are denying that they have female body parts (Transguys, 2010 ).They warn against binding in ways that restrict breathing and create a lackof oxygen and warn that binders are uncomfortable and hot, causing sweatand skin irritation and sores that resemble open wounds. Despite the harms,Transguys explains, ‘chest binding’ can be ‘very freeing for transgender men’as it can ‘curb dysphoria’. A Stanford University student health website off ersuseful tips in relation to ‘chest’ binding, explaining that using ‘Ace band-ages, saran wrap, or duct tape’ can peel skin and permanently damage ribs(Stanford University, n.d.). Rib displacement from the practice, which canlead to permanent physical harm, is a common source of concern on trans-gender ‘health’ websites (Ira, 2010 ).Surgery for female-bodied transgendersSurgeons have become active participants in the contemporary epidemic ofself-mutilation. They act as proxies in the now mainstream and profi tablepractice of cosmetic surgery, mostly on women (Sullivan, Deborah, 2001 ),and it has now become routine for some of the same surgeons to performsex-reassignment surgery so that those who cut women’s labia to make themmore socially acceptable, and tighten their vaginas for their husbands’ pleas-ure, also create labia and vaginas for men who are transitioning to become‘women’ (Jeff reys, 2005 ). Surgery for female-bodied transgenders, whichcan include mastectomy, hysterectomy and phalloplasty, creates a numberof health challenges. Mastectomy can lead to severe scarring and, as HollyDevor explains, this type of amputation surgery can lead to serious losses,such as permanent loss of feeling in nipples (Devor, 1999 : 480). The major-ity of female-bodied transgenders in Devor’s study chose not to go on tophalloplasty, though such a decision can lead to them feeling incomplete intheir sexual lives. They may, however, choose to engage in a variety of ‘bodymodifi cations’ that are promoted on transgender websites to increase the sizeof the clitoris, and make it more prominent and noticeable (Tenpenny andCascio, 2002 ).These modifi cations may include ‘pumping’ the clitoris andusing piercings to make it stick out. Piercings and metal rings may be insertedto close the vagina and make it clear to potential partners that that femalearea of the body is out of bounds (ibid.).For those who want a closer simulacrum to a penis, there are two meth-ods by which this can be accomplished: metoidioplasty and phalloplasty.Metoidioplasty can be carried out by surgeons or, in the body modifi cationcommunity, by non-professionals. When carried out by surgeons it takes placeas follows: ‘the enlarged clitoris, which is an eff ect of testosterone hormonereplacement therapy (HRT), is relocated upwards to create a sensate andfunctioning micropenis’ (Female to Male, n.d.). This is achieved by ‘releas-ing’ the suspensory ligament and creates a small imitation penis that doesnot allow urination while standing up. Phalloplasty creates a phallus throughthe use of a fl ap of fl esh taken, usually, from the forearm, and is a lengthy,multi-stage procedure involving more serious risks. Neither procedure cre-ates a phallus that is functional in the way that a penis might be, and therecan be very serious side eff ects including lack of sexual feeling. A Frenchstudy found that forty-six patients, or 83 per cent, had some feeling in theconstructed phallus but ‘only fi ve (9%) had obvious erogenous sensitivitywhen touching their phalloplasty’ (Leriche et al ., 2008 ). Other surgeries, suchas hysterectomy, may occasion later regret as they lead to sterilisation and lossof the capacity for motherhood. Serious surgical procedures, such as thoseinvolved in reassignment that require the amputation of healthy body parts,involve the risks that appertain to anaesthesia and the problems of healingfrom complex surgery.Surgery for male-bodied transgendersMale-bodied transgenders who go further than the consumption of hor-mones seek a diff erent palette of surgeries, which can include breast implants,amputation of penis and testes, construction of a penetrable orifi ce, facialsurgeries, surgeries to ‘contour’ the body, or shave the Adam’s apple, and anarray of other possibilities. The potential range of surgeries is large and thedetermined aspirant may continue for years to undertake more and variedforms. In some cases these surgeries, too, have analogies in the non-medi-cal, body modifi cation arena. The description and illustrations of surgery onmale-bodied transgenders presented in an issue of the International Journal ofTransgenderism , the house magazine of the society of psychiatrists and sur-geons specialising in this condition set up by the sexologist Harry Benjamin,suggest similarities with the way that body modifi cation procedures, includ-ing castration, are demonstrated on the Internet for the sexual satisfactionof devotees (Perovic et al ., 2005 ). The Body Modifi cation Ezine website, forinstance, carries bloody and graphic photos of brutal cutting practices such as suspension, which can be downloaded by afi cionados for a price just like anyother pornography on the web (Jeff reys, 2008 ). The journal article includesseven pages of hand-drawn pictures illustrating how a particular group ofsurgeons cut up the penis and then eleven pages of full colour photos of the‘disassembled penis’ that are extremely gruesome with bloody bits and piecesof the penis held up by medical instruments for appraisal. The authors explainthat they invert the skin of the penis to form a vagina and insert this into a‘previously prepared cavity’. Then they form labia from ‘the remaining pen-ile and scrotal skin’ (Perovic et al ., 2005 : 43). This public presentation of themutilation of the penis is not obviously very diff erent from the forms of dis-assembly of the penis engaged in by male body modifi ers –particularly nullosand transgenders – on the Body Modifi cation Ezine website and may off ersimilar satisfactions to those involved. But it is presented under the mantle ofscience, which off ers more respectability.This mutilating practice has been so normalised as a ‘therapy’ for the prob-lem of psychological distress about ‘gender’ that the physical harms involvedare seldom remarked upon. But problems, as the Journal of Transgenderism art-icle explains, can occur. They include unsatisfactory levels of moisture, ‘rec-tovaginal fi stula due to intraoperative injury to the rectum’, ‘vaginal shrinkingin two patients’, ‘stenosis of vaginal introitus’, ‘late stenosis of urethral meatusin one patient due to injury during sexual intercourse’, ‘urethral prolapse’,and ‘posterior vaginal wall rupture during intercourse’ (Perovic et al ., 2005 :). Patients whose new orifi ces have been fashioned from sufficient penileskin need to place objects called ‘stents’ in the surgically constructed vagina atnight to keep it open ‘until sexual intercourse is regularly practiced’ (Perovicet al ., 2005 : 64). Those who have ‘insufficient penile skin’ are advised to applystents ‘continuously day and night for one year in order to prevent contrac-tures following secondary epithelializaiton of free penile skin grafts’ (ibid.).The patients are advised to use their constructed vaginas for sexual inter-course as soon as possible ‘even though bleeding may occur’. Pain is notmentioned and the problems presented by reassembly in the case of thosewho change their minds are not addressed. Electrolysis to remove pubic hairis needed if scrotal skin is used to line the constructed vagina. In one casediscussed in an article in the Guardian (Batty, 2004 ), that of Claudia, the skinof the scrotum that had been used in the constructed vagina had not hadelectrolysis to remove the pubic hair and the hair grew inside the vagina:‘One day I was making love and something didn’t feel right. There was thislittle ball of hair like a Brillo pad in my vagina.’ A surgeon pulled the hair outfor him but warned it would continually grow back (ibid.).The new orifi ce is not a vagina in the biological sense. Vaginas are con-nected into the reproductive system of the female body rather than beingsimply an external cavity, and they are self-cleansing mechanisms. The newlycarved out orifi ces of male-bodied transgenders do not resemble vaginas;rather they create new microbial habitats in which infections develop andcause serious smell issues for their owners. The problem of bad smell is acommonly occurring discussion thread on transgender advice websites. Themedical evidence is that a bad smell exists and is associated with faecal bac-teria common to those male-bodied transgenders who engage in ‘hetero-sexual’ coitus: ‘Frequent episodes of malodorous discharge were reported byone in four women and malodour was even more frequently observed upongynaecological examination, which in turn might relate to the presence offaecal bacterial vaginosis-like microfl ora’ (Weyers, et al ., 2009 ). The neovagi-nas lack the lactobacilli connected with vaginal health in females.Facial feminisation surgerySurgeries for male-bodied transgenders do not necessarily stop at amputa-tion of genitals, surgically created fake vaginas and breast implants. In the lastdecade the transgender surgery industry has diversifi ed considerably and nowoff ers a wide variety of facial feminisation surgeries (FFS). This surgery sup-posedly solves the problem, for adult men who transgender, of having mas-culine features. Some of the ‘most popular’ facial surgeries, according to theindustry website facialfeminizationsurgery.info, include: brow lift; temporallift; scalp advancement; frontal bossing reduction osteotomy; reduction oste-otomy of the supra-orbital rims; nasal tip refi nement; osteotomy of the bonypyramid; lateral lower mandibular shave; mandibular angle shave; submandibu-lar liposuction; necklift; face lift; and many more (Facialfeminizationsurgery.info, n.d.). The industry website describes FFS as ‘very invasive’ surgery andprovides a compendious list of warnings and possible harmful eff ects fromsevere risks, which include: blood loss; blood clots; infection; pneumonia;necrosis – death of tissue; and paralysis, through to less serious risks suchas scarring (Facialfeminization.info, n.d.). There are also, apparently, psycho-logical risks, including depression, and the website warns that ‘almost everypatient can suff er some level of post-surgical depression’ as well as anxietyand regret. The link to fi nding a facial surgeon goes straight to the website ofwell-known US cosmetic surgeon, Dr Jeff rey Spiegel, who has added FFS tohis usual array of facial cosmetic surgeries aimed at women (drspiegel, n.d.).Spiegel defi nes facial feminisation surgery as ‘procedures that provide patientswith the face they should have been born with’ and the goal is ‘to provideyou with all of the major and subtle features that support your true gen-der’. Cheaper access to FFS is off ered in Thailand, where a thriving medicaltourism industry off ers all forms of surgery connected with transgenderism(ThaiMed, n.d.). The range of surgeries that male-bodied transgenders canembark upon is very extensive and provides scope for those addicted to the surgeries and their eff ects to pursue these dangerous and invasive proceduresfor many years, providing greater profi ts for the industry. The harms associ-ated with the surgery are compounded for those who change their minds andare unable to recover their health and physical functions.Transgender regretsThe inconvenient fact that persons who have been on hormone regimes orhad sex-reassignment surgery, and even gained new legal status as membersof the opposite sex, can change their minds and experience regret is fi ercelydenied by transgender activists, and ignored by the medical professionalsinvolved in transgendering, because it undermines the credibility of the prac-tice. It is avoided by lawmakers, too, who prefer the fi ction that none ofthose who gain gender recognition certifi cates in the UK, for example, willchange their minds (Jeff reys, 2008 ). Opponents of the 2004 legislation thatenabled transgenders in the UK to officially change their sex sought to getamendments that would allow persons who changed their minds to go backbefore the panel and get recertifi cated. They also asked what would happento persons who changed their minds more than once and whether the legis-lation would be able to accommodate them. The government rejected thesearguments as not being serious, but, in fact, regret is a very harmful eff ect oftransgender treatment. Persons who regret, if they have spent years on hor-mones or have gone so far as surgical treatment, will have experienced someirreversible physical harms such as sterilisation. They are also likely to haveexperienced social harms such as isolation from family and from relationships,factors commonly given as reasons for wanting to de-transition (return to livein original sex). The phenomenon of regret undermines the idea that thereexists a particular kind of person who is genuinely and essentially transgenderand can be identifi ed accurately by psychiatrists. It is radically destabilising tothe transgender project.The survivors’ movementNonetheless, in the last decade, as the volume of transgender surgeries hasincreased, there has been a concomitant increase in the cases of regret, inwhich persons who transitioned have argued that they were misdiagnosedand some have sought to have surgery to reverse their sex reassignment.Those who regret their transitioning might also be described as ‘survivors’of the harmful practices directed at them by the medical profession, and theterms will be used interchangeably here. The phenomenon of transgenderregrets has been recognised in sections of the therapeutic community. AzHakeem runs a therapy group at London’s Portman Clinic that includes bothmen who aspire to transition and those who regret having transitioned, cat-egories of persons who were previously kept separate, but who have usefulthings to say to each other:The preoperative group was characterised by hope and optimism, attimes extending to a gender euphoria, whereas the postoperative groupwas characterised by despair, hopelessness and regret, mainly becausethe group members were individuals who wished they had not hadsurgery.(Hakeem, 2012 : 20)There is presently some evidence that a survivors’ movement is under wayand is developing a political critique of the practice. It off ers support to thosewho are considering transition but are not sure, and to those who have doubtsabout their choice. Until the last couple of years, there were only two web-sites dedicated to survivors. One is that of Walt Heyer, a postoperative male-bodied transgender in the United States, who has de-transitioned and nowbelieves that his surgery and all SRS are mistaken (Heyer, n.d.). Dissatisfi edpost SRS male-bodied transgenders have told their stories on the website,and one states that he realised that ‘what he needed was simple psychother-apy, not sex change surgery’. The other is the website Gendermenders, setup from Melbourne, Australia, which criticises the idea of transgenderismand all forms of treatment (Gender Menders, n.d.). More recently, however,the setting-up of resources for regretters has accelerated. Atlas Strawberrieswas established in 2012. Its founders, two people who say they have ‘de-transitioned’, explain that it is ‘meant to be a place where de-transitionerscan anonymously share day to day frustrations and moments of lonelinessand heartbreak’. They set up the site to provide ‘solidarity’ to those seekingto de-transition as they ‘know how emotionally, physically, and psychologic-ally devastating it can be’ (Atlas Strawberries, 2012 ). In 2013 a new onlineresource for regretters was opened up called NoGoingBack, which describesitself as ‘a group for people who spent time transitioning medically, sociallyand/or physically to another gender … And then chose to stop transitioningand/or stop ID’ing as transgender/transsexual’ (NoGoingBack, 2013 ). Theproliferation of these resources indicates a watershed in the developmentof the phenomenon of transgenderism. It is no longer possible to suggestwith much credibility that physical treatments are a ‘cure’ and the practiceis facing a considerable challenge to its validity from the incipient survivors’movement.Two of those involved in the online regretters/survivors’ movement wereinterviewed for this book, a man and a woman. They were chosen becausethey do not just consider that they were misdiagnosed but have developed a specifi c, critical politics that challenges the practice of transgenderismaltogether. They both have an active online presence in which they voicetheir critique and speak out with the hope of enabling others to escape theharms associated with transition. They can be seen as emblematic of a newconsciousness and a new politics that may form the germ of a movement ofresistance by survivors. They are also very brave because the backlash againstthem from transgender activists can be extremely abusive. Walt Heyer is amember of an older generation of male-bodied transgenders and had quite aclassic profi le of a heterosexual male cross-dresser before he went on to hor-mones and SRS. He was infl uenced by publicity surrounding the ChristineJorgensen case in the 1950s to consider taking such a step, but has de-tran-sitioned and now campaigns against the practice of SRS. Heyer says thatthe Harry Benjamin Standards of Care were not followed in his case, eventhough he was treated by one of the doctors who drew them up. This doctorapproved him for surgery after a forty-fi ve minute consultation, and presentlyin the United States, he says, persons seeking to transgender can just walkinto ‘some doctor’s office and tell him, you know, I want some hormones andyou pay him the money and the guy gives you hormones, you don’t haveto have counselling’. In his opinion it is all about the money; ‘the questionthey ask is do you have the money? That’s your counselling, do you have themoney?’ He explains that, years later, he consulted several psychiatrists whoall told him that he has, in fact, a dissociative disorder. Heyer de-transitionedbecause he regretted not so much the surgery, but its consequences, includingalienation of his children, loss of employment, homelessness. He now consid-ers that ‘it’s impossible for someone to change genders … you can make itappear as though a change was made but there is actually no way to changesomeone’s gender’. He says he ‘enjoyed being a female’ mainly because of thepleasures of shopping for and wearing clothing associated with women, butknew he ‘wasn’t a female’.Heyer, like all those who go public about regretting their transition, fi ndshimself the object of considerable abuse and harassment from transgenderactivists. He excoriates the transgender activist movement for the way inwhich they police other transgenders who de-transition and dare not gopublic for fear of reprisals: ‘I hate the fact that they have gained so muchpower.’ He says he hopes that ‘someone will fi nally drive a nail in this bigballoon and explode it’, but presently there are too few persons preparedto stand up to the bullying that being critical entails, and he is ‘probablyone of the few that has a website and they send me nasty stuff all the time’.Heyer’s ideas are available at length in his books Paper Genders ( 2011 ), and SexChange – It’s Suicide ( 2013 ).The other interviewee is Heath Russell, a young US lesbian who wasattracted to the idea of transitioning in her teens as a result of the considerablemedia publicity and general public promotion of female-bodied transgender-ism in recent years. Heath developed the idea of transitioning as a result ofbeing bullied for not fi tting into gender stereotypes as a girl child, and fromabsorbing the idea that it was possible to change sex from television talk shows.At sixteen she ‘came out’ about her attraction to women and received verynegative reactions from her mother in particular. Like Heyer, she describesa perfunctoriness about the consultation process with a psychiatrist that ledto her being prescribed hormones. Her suggestion that she was transgenderwas ‘simply accepted’, and the fact that she was a lesbian not considered rele-vant. Members of the transgender community told her to stay away fromany therapists who questioned her transition, on the grounds that they were‘transphobic’. The complete acceptance of the idea of transgenderism amongmedical professionals meant that she was given no opportunity for ambiva-lence about the decision. She says that she had doubts about whether she wasreally a ‘man’ throughout the two years that she was using hormones.She thinks that the absence of ‘lesbian role models’ and a ‘proud womanloving culture’ made her susceptible to the idea that she should transgender.It was only when she came across Internet resources created by proud les-bian women, who sought to halt the movement of young lesbians towardstransgenderism, that she gradually began to change her mind about the stepsshe was taking. She gained the confi dence to be a lesbian who eschewedfemininity, rather than thinking she must really be a man. Another reason forde-transitioning was that the hormones were causing havoc with her body’snatural systems. She began to experience heart palpitations that she had neverexperienced before, and an elevated pulse rate. She became more interestedin information about the harmful eff ects that hormones could have, such asincreased cancer risks and polycystic ovary syndrome, and decided to de-transition by quitting hormones ‘cold turkey’, which is not a recommendedcourse. Some of the eff ects of the hormones reversed and some remained.She still has facial hair, which creates problems for her when out in public,and her driver’s licence continues to say that she is a man, which could causeher problems if intercepted, as she says, in the women’s locker rooms.Russell developed what she describes as a radical lesbian feminist analysisof transgenderism, which helped her in understanding her own experienceand in continuing to challenge the practice in her online activism. Her pos-ition is that ‘there is no such thing as the wrong body’ and she considers thatqueer theory messed with the minds of many young lesbians, making themsusceptible to this erroneous idea. She now agrees with social constructionistperspectives on homosexuality and on gender roles, which posit that peopleare not born to be homosexual but, rather, can choose to be so, and consid-ers that the gender non-conformity regularly found among homosexuals isconstructed from their rebellious impulses. Like Walt Heyer, Russell has been subjected to attacks because of goingpublic as a de-transitioner. Her ‘coming out’, as she calls it, has included atelevision interview in which she eloquently argues against the practice oftransgenderism, using examples from her own experience (Russell, 2013 ). Theworst insults came from male-bodied transgenders, and she was called ‘a failedmale’, a ‘jackass’, and a ‘dickrag’ and received death threats and rape threats.Female-bodied transgenders, on the other hand, just told her she should takeresponsibility for her decisions and that she was undermining the medicalunderstanding of transgenderism. Her mother and father are having difficul-ties changing their pronoun use once more and her mother has difficultyaccepting that, rather than being a man, her daughter is actually a lesbian.In response to this challenge to the legitimacy of the practice, some trans-gender activists and commentators have shown considerable anger and hos-tility towards those who have gone public with their regret. The acrimonyhas been quite fi erce and may make those transgenders who have regretsfearful of being open about them. A form of policing is going on within thetransgender community in an attempt to shore up the leaky structure of thepractice. One Australian regretter, who has been the object of this policing,is Alan Finch. He questioned his identity during adolescence, wonderingwhether he was homosexual or had been born in the wrong body, and inhis twenties went through full sex-reassignment treatment including surgery.By 2004 Finch had decided that he was a man living without a penis andthat he would not attempt to have further genital surgery although at thetime he was considering having the constructed vagina removed as the skinhad become ‘scuff ed and crusty’. Finch concluded, ‘I can’t see much point inmutilating my body anymore’ (Batty, 2004 ). Finch has campaigned againstwhat he calls the ‘sex change industry’, and believes that all treatment shouldcease. He argues thattranssexualism was invented by psychiatrists … Their language is illu-sory. You fundamentally can’t change sex … the surgery doesn’t alteryou genetically. It’s genital mutilation. My ‘vagina’ was just the bag ofmy scrotum. It’s like a pouch, like a kangaroo. What’s scary is you stillfeel like you have a penis when you’re sexually aroused. It’s like phan-tom limb syndrome. It’s all been a terrible misadventure. I’ve neverbeen a woman, just Alan … The analogy I use about giving surgery tosomeone desperate to change sex is it’s a bit like off ering liposuctionto an anorexic.(Batty, 2004 )Finch sued the only Australian gender identity clinic, at Melbourne’s MonashMedical Centre, for misdiagnosis. Commentators from the transgendercommunity were verbally abusive towards Finch for his desertion of the causeon the Susan’s.org discussion forum, where ‘Dennis’ comments on Finch’s legal case against the Monash clinic, ‘this is a joke! people like (him) shouldn’tbe entitled to anything’, ‘I hope he loses’, and calls him a ‘media whore’(Susan’s.org, Dennis, 2007 ). Another commenter, ‘Melissa’, says, ‘People like this make me sick … I’m sorry, people who regret transitioning should beshot. They are a waste of oxygen’, and ‘Helen W’ says that Finch should be‘laughed out of the courtroom’, and calls him an ‘arch manipulator’ (ibid.).They reject the idea that regretters really exist and say they do not knowof any.Considering the huge distress and social and personal disadvantage theregretters/survivors suff er, their online detractors can seem remarkablycruel. The case of seventy-fi ve-year-old Gary Norton of the UK illustratesthis. He had SRS twenty-three years ago, felt uncertain even while on theoperating table and is now living as a man (Strange, 2012 ). He wants rep-arative surgery on the National Health Service, but has been told there isno funding for reversals. Norton knew the sex change was a mistake ‘whenshe grew sick of doing her hair and makeup and continued to be attractedto straight women’. He has been particularly distressed that his childrenhave wanted no contact with him since the SRS and he is lonely becausewomen do not want relationships with him. He relates that he went to hisdoctor about depression after being made redundant, and, on saying thathe was a cross-dresser, was advised to start taking hormones. After SRS hefound being a woman too ‘fussy and time consuming’; he realised that he‘hadn’t wanted to be a woman – I just liked dressing up as one from time totime for a thrill and it should never have gone any further. It was devastat-ing. I was a man trapped in a woman’s body and I was stuck with it’ (ibid.).Norton’s story, like that of Alan Finch, was not treated with any sympathyin the transgender online community. ‘Samantha Cool Beans’, in a discus-sion of his case on the website, Angels: supporting the TG Community,commented, ‘For every one of these type of people/stories it makes 1000sof us look like crazy nutjobs!’ (Angelsforum, 2012 ). Among many criticalposts, Shantel, in a discussion at Susan’s.org, comments, ‘What an insipid moron!’ (Susan’s.org, 2012 ).The complaints of regretters have instigated investigations of clinics andmedical personnel involved in the transgender industry in the UK as well asin Australia. In the UK they have centred upon the best known psychiatristin the UK transgender industry, Dr Russell Reid and the female-bodiedtransgender who took over Reid’s private gender clinic, Dr Richard Curtis,Reid became the subject of an inquiry by the General Medical Council(GMC) after complaints from four doctors at the public Charing CrossGender Identity Clinic, on behalf of patients who said they had been rushed into hormone and surgical treatment against the best practice guidelines, theHarry Benjamin Standards of Care (Batty, 2007a ). The standards recommendthat patients should not be put on hormones within three months of attend-ing a clinic, and that they should not be operated upon unless they had donethe ‘real life test’ of living as if they were women for twelve months. Reid’sprevious notoriety stemmed from his involvement in a 2000 Horizon investi-gation of the phenomenon of Amputee Identity Disorder, now more usuallycalled Body Identity Integrity Disorder (BIID) ( Horizon , 2000 ). It transpiredthat Reid was involved in referring two men to a surgeon, Robert Smith, ina Scottish hospital to have unwanted, healthy legs amputated. Reid explainedthat he considered that BIID and gender identity disorder were similar, andthat both could usefully be treated by surgery to remove the off ending bodyparts.In the 2007 case, the GMC found Reid guilty of serious professional mis-conduct (Batty, 2007b ). Two patients who testifi ed before the panel consid-ered that they had been misdiagnosed. One, a woman who thought that shewas transsexual because she was suff ering from manic depression, narrowlyavoided a mastectomy. She testifi ed that during her illness she had believedthat she was Jesus and that a sex change would help her to become him (Batty,b ). After treatment for her manic depression she had no desire to changesex. Another, a convicted paedophile, had a sex change but wanted surgery toallow him to return to living as a man. The remaining three patients remainedin their reassigned sex but considered that they did not receive a sufficientstandard of care from Reid.Russell Reid’s gender clinic was taken over by the female-bodied trans-gender, Dr Richard Curtis, who, like Reid, was being investigated formisconduct in 2013. A 2005 news item reported that Curtis was the fi rsttransgender person to become a general practitioner in the UK (Day, 2005 ).Curtis decided in adulthood that she was really a gay man after several rela-tionships with men as a woman. Her understanding of gender was very con-stricting and traditional: ‘I’ve never wanted children, or a white wedding likemost women dream of, or a man to take care of me. Instead, you were morelikely to fi nd me fi tting a kitchen or tiling the bathroom’ (ibid.). Curtis wasinvestigated in 2013 after three patient complaints (Batty, 2013 ). The allega-tions are similar to those in Reid’s case, such as the commencement of hor-mone treatment without referring patients for a second opinion and beforethey had undergone counselling, administering hormone treatment at fi rstappointments, and referring for surgery before the twelve months real lifetest was completed. One woman complains that she was inappropriately pre-scribed sex-changing hormones and underwent a double mastectomy beforeshe changed her mind. Curtis is also accused of administering hormones tosixteen-year-old patients without an adequate assessment.There is increasing evidence to suggest that treatment aimed at physic-ally changing the bodies of men and women who seek to transgender isineff ective in improving physical and mental health and social functioning.Nonetheless, large tracts of the medical profession, including many psychia-trists and psychotherapists as well as endocrinologists and surgeons, colludewith the mental health problems of those who come to them seeking tochange their sex, and do them harm. This is despite the fact that diagnosingthe ‘real’ transgender is becoming more and more fraught, and the very ideaof diagnosis is being challenged by some transgender activists on the groundsthat hormones and surgery should be seen as a matter of choice and cosmeticalteration.The inability of many, if not most, of those in the medical profession toaccept that physical treatments of transgenderism should be considered pro-fessional misconduct is likely to refl ect several realities. One is the amountof money to be made, particularly by the pharmaceutical industry, whichneeds a replacement for the failed ambition of placing the majority of olderwomen on HRT. Another is the antiquated belief by this most patriarchal ofprofessions that essential gender does exist and that when a man says he isa woman this should be immediately respected. If gender exists, then it canmysteriously, they believe, be misplaced. Another is likely to be fear of beingaccused of transphobia and fi nding their reputations in tatters, as transgenderactivists go after anyone critical of the practice online. But critical voices doseem to be increasing in number and are likely, at length, to reach the criticalmass needed to challenge this harmful practice. As more and more of thosewho have been transgendered seek help to de-transition and some have thecourage to speak out, the quackery of the practice should become moreapparent to those who treat them.The phenomenon of transgenderism is generally written about as if thosewho transition are engaged in an individual heroic quest and the persons whosurround them – partners, wives, girlfriends, mothers, children, workmates –are mentioned only to stress the importance of their giving unqualifi ed sup-port. In fact transgenderism infl icts serious harms on the family membersof transgenders. Though both men and women engage in transgenderism,family members who suff er most are likely to be women in both cases: wives,partners and mothers. There is no mention of male partners in the literature,which suggests that they are very rare. There is very little research literatureon this aspect of the transgender phenomenon and accounts written by wives,as well as an interview with a woman partner of a man who has transitioned,will be used to fi nd out how the lives of these women are aff ected. Thewives of men who transgender, the partners of lesbians who transgender, andthe mothers in both cases, describe similar experiences. These include psy-chological distress, grief and loss, social exclusion, humiliation and fi nancialproblems. This chapter will focus on the wives, female partners and mothersof men who decide to change their sex.Cross-dressing and transgenderismThe husbands who make the decision to change sex are likely to have a his-tory of cross-dressing. Increasingly, as a result of the greater visibility of thepossibilities of transgenderism online and in the media generally, men withfemale partners who would once simply have been occasional cross-dressersare transitioning (Lawrence, 2007 ). As a result, there is no longer any clear dis-tinction between the two practices of cross-dressing and transsexualism, withboth now usually being placed under the same umbrella term, transgenderism. As Virginia Erhardt comments in the introduction to her collection of nar-ratives by the wives of ‘cross-dressers and transsexuals’, these practices, whichcannot be clearly distinguished ‘dilemmas of gender identity, rather than form-ing discrete categories, fall on a continuum’ (Erhardt, 2007 : 13). The Erhardtcollection begins with the stories of wives whose husbands have not gonefurther than occasional cross-dressing, and end with those of the wives of menwho have gone on to transgender. The clear similarities between the harms tothe wives and partners in all cases support the idea that a similar phenomenonis being described. The cruel problem for the wives of cross-dressers is thatthey have to live with the knowledge that at some point their partners maystart to live as that which they imagine to be ‘women’ full-time, and this canput them into a state of hyperawareness and stress (Erhardt, 2007 ).Cross-dressers who are exposed to transgender activism through theonline transgender community are likely to develop the desire to go fur-ther than would once have been the case. Helen Boyd, who has writtentwo books on cross-dressing and speaks on a lecture circuit with her hus-band, Betty, explains how this can happen. She says that after her book MyHusband Betty was published, the couple were immediately taken up by thetransgender movement and Betty started to move towards the possibility oftransition: ‘We’ve realized since that even her exploration of her female sidewas a bit like a Pandora’s box, which once opened cannot be closed’ (Boyd, : 9). Boyd describes her situation thus: ‘[l]iving with someone who looksas if she’s transitioning and seems to want to transition but isn’t transitioningis a little like living with post-traumatic stress disorder, feeling as if every bitof you is hair-triggered, waiting for the announcement, waiting for the crisis’(Boyd, 2007 : 251). Being in a marriage that ‘poses that “fi ght or fl ight” ques-tion every day’, she says, is not conducive to long-term happiness.Heroes of their own livesThe majority of the literature on transgenderism represents the process oftransition as an epic adventure in which individuals seek to fi nd themselves(Lev, 2004 ). Unfortunately, the signifi cant others, partners, wives and mothersof transgenders suff er the negative impact of these adventures. The transgen-ders may be the heroes of their own lives, but the women they leave behindmay not feel so positive. Christine Benvenuto characterises the behaviour ofher husband as resembling a heroic quest: ‘he sees his life as an epic tale ofliberation akin to the Passover story’ (Benvenuto, 2012a : 22). Her memoirof life with her transgender husband, Sex Changes , was met by a campaignled by her ex-husband to traduce and silence her in 2012. To his ‘admiringfans’, she says he is a ‘martyr, a patron saint, Our Lady of Gender Variance.In the Valley of the Politically Correct, he expected approval – and he got it’ (Benvenuto, 2012a : 237). When he gave a talk at her synagogue, he ‘told ahero’s tale’ (Benvenuto, 2012a : 259). The wife’s role in relation to the hero isto be a handmaiden, not a critic or an obstacle.There is a new clinical literature developing, however, in which thereis recognition of the severely harmful eff ects of men’s transitioning behav-iour on their female partners. Until quite recently, the literature on trans-genderism has excluded the experience of partners; it has been ‘TI-centric’,TI meaning transgender identifi ed, according to the family and transgendertherapists, Donna Chapman and Benjamin Caldwell (Chapman and Caldwell, : 37). But the partners and family members of transgenders cannot avoidbeing aff ected, as ‘TI people do not just come out to themselves. They can-not remain closeted if they wish to actualize their gendered sense of self ’(Chapman and Caldwell, 2012 : 39). The families have ‘no option’ but to ‘copewith it whether they like it or not, and they have been considered extraneousto the process of evaluation and treatment of the TI partner. Their needs havebeen marginalised’ (ibid.). In fact, the point of coming out as a transgenderfor a cross-dressing man would be entirely lost if there was not an audience,and family members are likely to be required to form the audience,however unwilling they may be. The majority of therapists who work withtransgenders, some of whom have created niche practices from such treat-ment, adopt the perspective of their transgender clients that they are heroes,ignoring the harms infl icted on partners which might undermine the script.As Lisa Chase puts it, physicians and insurance companies like to think thattransition is curative for transgenders and ‘[t]he idea of partners speakingout by acknowledging a need for support was too much of a risk and mayhave jeopardized the trans’ ability to transition’, by undermining their healthinsurance claims perhaps (Chase, 2011 : 430).Arlene Lev is a therapist who takes the ‘heroic quest’ perspective, andhas little sympathy for wives and women partners who might be suff ering.Her book Transgender Emergence ( 2004 ) purports to provide a template forproviding therapy to transgenders and their families. Lev is relentlessly posi-tive about the way in which partners could gain by supporting transgenders.She explains that, traditionally, therapists expected the man to leave his wife,‘never looking at the situation from the opposite angle and asking whetherthe spouse is able to grow and change enough to support her husband’s cross-gender “needs”’ (Lev, 2004 : 16). The ‘needs’ of the women partners are notrecognised here. She encourages those treating the partners to see that ‘havinga partner who is transgendered might be fascinating, exciting, or desirable’(Lev, 2004 : 17). The wives and partners who write about their experience,however, do not support this positive view at all (Benvenuto, 2012a ; Erhardt, ), but struggle to survive the stress and the crumbling of everything theyhold dear. Virginia Erhardt, another therapist who specialises in therapy with trans-genders, is scarcely more sympathetic towards the wives than Lev. Erhardtcreated her collection of wives’ stories because of her recognition that wivesneeded support: ‘natal female partners are so groomed to pay attention totheir husbands’ needs in this situation … that they often lose their own voices’(Erhardt, 2007 : 2). But she is fi rmly wedded to the transgender ideology thatthe husbands simply cannot help themselves and she teaches that men’s cross-dressing practices are nothing to do with choice or lifestyle: ‘It is extremelyimportant for a woman to remember that being a person of transgenderexperience is involuntary. I have heard women who leave insist on believingthat their partner was frivolously choosing a “transgender lifestyle”’ (Erhardt, : 6). The wives in the collection are those who support and stay withtheir husbands, but their stories are a useful source material for this chapterbecause they detail the very serious stresses that they experience.The small minority of therapists who are beginning to acknowledge theharm to wives, on the other hand, consider it to be very serious. Chapman andCaldwell call this harm ‘attachment injury’, which is a specifi c type of eventthat involves the ‘violation of trust or betrayal coupled with the inaccessibil-ity of the partner’ (Chapman and Caldwell, 2012 : 44). They explain that thepartner of someone who transgenders experiences a role and identity changethat is ‘unplanned and uncontrolled’ (Chapman and Caldwell, : 37),whereas their partner is embarking on a long planned and anticipated quest.In response to the transition, the partners left behind may suff er in ways that‘meet defi nitions of trauma’ (Chapman and Caldwell, 2012 : 43). Attachmentinjuries, they explain, ‘behave much like PTSD injuries in that they re-emergein the form of traumatic fl ashback, avoidance, hyper-vigilance, and numbingand are overwhelming’ (Chapman and Caldwell, 2012 : 45).The self-centredness of transgendersOne signifi cant source of harm to wives is the self-centredness of transgen-ders. Wives and partners suff er because the transgenders behave as if onlytheir quest has importance, and do not take the distress they are causingseriously, or are puzzled by it. Chapman and Caldwell say that it is difficultfor transgenders to hear about injury to partners because ‘inherent in TI pro-cessing is a profound self-centredness’ (Chapman and Caldwell, 2012 : 47).Helen Boyd says that a friend calls this behaviour ‘male autism’ (Boyd, 2007 :). A wife in the Erhardt collection makes a similar point about the self-centredness of transgender husbands: ‘From the beginning of the transition,it was all about Bobbi’s dreams, wants, and needs’ (Erhardt, 2007 : 120). Themen’s transgenderism is a masculine prerogative, and not to be trammelledwith extraneous concerns. The literature on male abusers of female partners in other settings suggests that they demonstrate a similar lack of empathy(Harne, 2011 ).The self-centredness of male-bodied transgenders and their lack ofempathy are refl ected in the way that they choose to ‘come out’ to theirwives. The majority of women interviewed by Erhardt ( 2007 ) did not knowabout their partners’ cross-dressing when they married. They found out aftermarriage, and, not uncommonly, twenty or more years into the marriage. Insome cases, such as that of Christine Benvenuto, the husband may have men-tioned the cross-dressing early in the marriage on a couple of occasions, butthe wife was unlikely to take this seriously (Benvenuto, 2012a ). As Benvenutoexplains, she could not know that this might refer to an activity that wouldescalate and could result in transgenderism rather than being an occasionalhobby. The transgender husbands did not necessarily consider their wives’feelings when they decided to reveal their proclivity.The tactic of appearing ‘dressed’ before an unsuspecting and severelyshocked partner seems, from numerous accounts by wives, to be common.It was the experience of the founder of a website set up specifi cally tosupport women who ‘struggled’ with having husbands who cross-dressed,and she expresses poignantly the distress she felt (Crossdresserswives.com,n.d.a). She was having a supposedly romantic New Year’s Eve dinner, whenher husband said he had something to tell her but needed to go upstairsbecause it was easier to show rather than tell. After ten minutes heappeared ‘dressed’.Finally, he came down the extravagant, sweeping staircase wearinghis long, red, silk, otherwise unassuming robe. He sat next to me andsilently opened his robe. Immediately I stopped breathing – no oxygencoming in or out. I was paralyzed. Something in his eyes made me real-ize this was no joke. He was dead-ass serious. While wearing what wassupposed to be my black, silk stockings and matching black lace garterbelt, items which he had emphatically insisted I needed, I tried so hardto compassionately understand as the man I loved disclosed his longtime wish to try on lingerie. Then he wanted to make love.(Crossdresserswives.com, n.d.a)She allowed what she called the ‘sex game’ to take place because she ‘lovedhim enough to help him live out this bizarre fetish’ but found the experi-ence ‘shocking, disturbing, poignant, joyless and dismal’. While he said it wasthe ‘best sex he had ever had’, for her it was ‘by far the worst, exacerbated,frightening sexual experience for me’ and reminded her of being date rapedat the age of eighteen, ‘the only other time I felt so powerless’. In both casesthese ‘unwelcomed sexualized acts’ ‘traumatized’ her, because they were ‘acts of abomination, betrayals that left me feeling permanently (though silently)horrifi ed, violated and soiled’ (Crossdresserswives.com, n.d.a).The wives of transgenders typically progress through a range of emotionswhen they discover their husbands’ cross-dressing. Initial reactions range frombewilderment and disbelief to shock and then embarrassment at the thoughtof others fi nding out (Erhardt, 2007 ). In Erhardt’s collection, women expe-rienced feelings of being violated, and of revulsion (ibid.). One wife wasrevolted by the fact that her husband had shaved his body hair and she couldnot relate to his hairlessness, and another said she felt physically sick. Otherreactions included a deep sense of loneliness and feelings of not being goodenough, sleeplessness and frequent crying, and a feeling of sexual rejectionthat led to feelings of sexual inadequacy (Buxton, 2006 ). One woman inErhardt’s study, after a sleepless night, decided that she would commit suicide,but in the end did not do so. The overwhelming and universal reaction fromwomen who did not know at the time of their marriage that their husbandwas a cross-dresser, was betrayal at the deception and loss of trust (ibid.). Thepartner of a transgender who was interviewed for this chapter explained howdismissive her husband was of the pain he was causing her:It was as if I had fallen down the rabbit hole. He brushed off my ques-tions with ‘Hey, chill. You always make such a big deal of everything –nobody can predict the future’. I felt that my fear and distress was beingminimised and dismissed. I felt totally alone.Issues of trustSome accounts suggest that the intensity of the distress experienced by wivesand partners is exacerbated by the timing of the disclosure. Women whoknew about their husbands’ cross-dressing prior to marrying them, or veryearly in the marriage, could be more accepting of the behaviour, but shockedwhen it progressed to the stage where the men started to question their bio-logical sex and identify as transgendered, rather than as cross-dressers (Erhardt, ). Other research, however, indicates that it did not matter at what stagehusbands revealed their cross-dressing; the partners still felt deceived, unableto trust and unable to believe in their partner’s word or their own judgement(Buxton, 2006 ). Wives who were not told before marriage refused to accepttheir husbands’ explanation that they did not disclose their ‘secret’ for fear ofrejection. They thought the marriage had been ‘a joke based on dishonesty’(Erhardt, 2007 : 34). One woman insisted that she had the right to decidewhether or not she wanted to be married to a cross-dresser and ‘that decisionshould not have been made for me’ (Erhardt, 2007 : 51). Christine Benvenutodescribes the profound sense of loss she experienced. The decades she had been with her husband suddenly seemed to have been a lie and she lost theshared memories:You lose your partner and your access to his memories … He tellsyou that he has been posing as your partner, a fi ctitious character ofhis own and perhaps your invention throughout your relationship. Tellsyou every memory you’ve stored needs to be rewritten.(Benvenuto, 2012a : 84)Eff ectively, she says, Tracey told her that the ‘past twenty-odd years of my lifehad not actually happened’ (Benvenuto, 2012a : 88).The betrayal of trust can extend to the husband’s behaviour towards hischildren. Benvenuto explains that her husband used her young children ascharacters in his performance and sought to conceal this from her: ‘My chil-dren’s experience of Tracey’s transformation and the break-up of our marriageis hands down the ugliest and most painful aspect of this story’ (Benvenuto,a : 119). He ‘dressed’ in front of his toddler child and when she made thisknown to her mother, he said he had not thought her capable of speakingabout it (Benvenuto, 2012a : 80). When his eight-year-old daughter went tovisit her father, he enrolled her in his practice as she explained to her mother,‘When I go to Daddy’s he gives me his shoes and jewelry to try on. I do hishair. Sometimes we put on makeup’ (Benvenuto, 2012a : 142). Eventually sherefused to visit, refused to be alone with him and said she was afraid of him.He fl ew into rages, she said, if she refused to play dress-up: ‘“He told me I hadto show him how to be a girl! … He said he’d never gotten to be a girl, sohe wanted to experience what it was like through me!”’ (Benvenuto, 2012a :). Benvenuto’s husband, by her account, placed his children’s interestssecond to his own pleasures.Psychological violenceThe behaviour of transgender husbands can go beyond a lack of empathywith their partners’ suff ering and become more abusive. In ChristineBenvenuto’s case, one form of abuse was the accusation that she was men-tally unstable: ‘“You’re sick,” Tracey told me when I protested against anyaspect of his behavior. “You’re mentally ill. No one in the world thinks theway you do. Everyone else thinks what I’m doing is great”’ (Benvenuto,a : 85). He also engaged in other forms of bullying and threats and a new‘Tracey’ emerged, she says, the one who ‘intimidated and threatened, wholaid down the law and expected me to abide by it. If Tracey was becominga woman, he had never seemed so male – a tyrannical bully he had neverbeen in our marriage’ (Benvenuto, 2012a : 70). The threats issued to gain her compliance included the statement that he would take the three childrenfrom her if she left him. One wife in the Erhardt collection took her hus-band back to live with her after he had had an emotional breakdown andbeen hospitalised twice. He (called ‘she’ in this account) then proceeded toengage in psychological violence towards her through personal insults: ‘InMay, she began telling me all the things I do to hurt her. She also said that Ismell bad, even right after a bath, and that it doesn’t feel good when I touchher’ (Erhardt, 2007 : 120).In some cases the husbands may not set out to cause hurt but their behav-iour causes severe distress nonetheless. One problem experienced by thewives of cross-dressers, for instance, is that when their husbands come outas ‘women’ they are required to go into the closet. In the Erhardt collectionseveral wives use precisely this metaphor with one wife saying about herselfand her daughter, ‘Mostly I resent his having put us into the closet’ (Erhardt, : 126). They fi nd themselves unable to access support because they areexpected to go out with their husband ‘en femme’, for instance, althoughnot allowed to reveal what is happening, to their friends and family. Anotherproblem that distresses wives is the feeling that their husbands want to bethem in a parasitic way, to take over their persona. As one wife puts this, ‘Attimes it seems as though Jane wants to merge with me, and I feel engulfed’(Erhardt, 2007 : 165). Benvenuto explained this problem in a similar way:‘he didn’t want to be with me, he wanted to be me’ (Benvenuto, 2012a : 43).Another wife explained,There are ‘turf ’ issues: sharing not only my clothes and ‘my’ kitchen buteven my name and gender. It took me over a year to appreciate what asweet gesture it was that Diane saw me as her model of a woman andeven incorporated my name into hers: Dick + Anne + Diane.(Erhardt, 2007 : 197)Such parasitism may cause great distress.The female partner that we interviewed for this chapter calls the way inwhich transgenders can accuse their wives of madness, when they notice andobject to problematic behaviour, ‘gaslighting’. She says, ‘I think the constantonline shenanigans, lying, secrets and gaslighting (“you are mad”, “you areimagining stuff ”, “it’s you that has a problem”) is a form of psychologicalviolence.’ She says that after ‘the fourth or fi fth cycle of lies, being found out,more lies, more gaslighting and more lies, I snapped’ and began to fi nd him‘physically and emotionally repulsive’, and had to build ‘a shell around me tosurvive’. She says that ‘in many ways’ she identifi es with ‘women in “regular”abusive relationships’ and believes that she has PTSD: ‘I fi nd social situationsexcruciating most days. I have very few friends now.’ After suff ering extreme social isolation and anxiety it was feminism that gave her the tools to redis-cover her strength:I have re-discovered feminism through the radical feminist blogs andbooks I have been encouraged to read by women I have met online,and now (in a few cases) in ‘real life’. What a relief it is to know that Iam not ‘mad’.She is pleased that there are now words for what she is going through, ‘psy-chological violence’, and that this form of ‘oppression’ has been named. Inthis straightforward way, feminist understandings can comfort and supportwomen who have experienced such abuse. Those feminists who publiclysupport the practice of transgenderism could be seen as guilty of abandoningthe wives, who are left high and dry. The feminist project should be to sup-port women who are abused by men, rather than the men who are respon-sible for the abuse, otherwise men’s transgender behaviour can split womenand feminists from each other.The hijacking of women’s livesWhen men come out as cross-dressers or transgender the lives of their wivesare likely to be hijacked. However they had once thought they would spendtheir lives, they will, if they seek to stay with these men, fi nd that the prioritiescreated by the men’s particular sexual interest will take over their time, energyand fi nancial resources. The wives of men who cross-dress, as well as those whogo on to transgender on a more permanent basis, become very much boundup with their husbands’ practice. One wife of a cross-dresser comments, ‘I reallydon’t want this CDing (cross-dressing) to overtake my life and it seems like ithas – it’s become much more central than I want it to be’ (Erhardt, 2007 : 55).Another wife says she often just does not feel like playing dress-up games butfeels under pressure: ‘Even today when I’m tired, hungry, or just emotionallyworn out and Lucy wants to emerge, my reaction is “no”’ (Erhardt, 2007 : 59).The husbands frequently take their wives as their models and the wivesacquire a new form of housework in facilitating their husbands’ ‘woman-hood’. It is their wives’ clothes that the men often wear and they require theirwives to transform them into women. As one wife explains,I tried to teach Tommy to do his own makeup, but it was hopeless. Healways made up his eyes too dark, so he looked French. I decided that Iwould just do all the makeup. I also tried teaching Tommy how to walkin a more feminine way, but it didn’t work; he still walked like a guy.(Erhardt, 2007 : 74) Such work is particularly important if the husband is able to persuade hiswife to go out in public with him, because it is more humiliating if his imita-tion of a woman is particularly woeful. Shopping is another chore: ‘We shoptogether. I’ve helped him with makeup. He dresses in my presence. I accept,support, and even encourage’ (Erhardt, 2007 : 90).If wives become involved with the transgender support organisations thattheir husbands join, then they acquire a whole new range of responsibilitiesand work. One wife explains that she and her husband ‘became very involvedwith support groups. Diana went on to become a founder of a support groupin our area, and I became an activist for signifi cant others’ (Erhardt, 2007 : 66).She also says, ‘There are times when I feel it impacts our lives too much; butDiana, being considerate, will back off a bit when I mention this’ (Erhardt, : 67).Wives are expected to share their husbands’ fascination with the practice.One wife talks of how her life became centred on her husband’s interestin cross-dressing: ‘We got the Internet and our lives revolved around cross-dressing. We spent hours in chat rooms and going from site to site look-ing for information’ (Erhardt, 2007 : 123). Another wife commented, ‘Thebiggest stressor in our relationship is the amount of time and energy gen-der dysphoria and the transition process take from our relationship. I oftenrun out of patience’ (Erhardt, 2007 : 144). She says she often feels as if her‘only role in this relationship is to be support for “the big decision”’ (ibid.).Feminist research on the unpaid work of wives suggests that supportingmen’s hobbies and leisure activities, e.g. by washing the football outfi t, is anunder-recognised aspect of housework (Delphy and Leonard, 1992 ). In thecase of transgenderism, the work required is rather more extensive. Wivesmay fi nd that, rather than taking a more equal share of the housework intheir new female persona, their husbands may engage in a form of learnthelplessness they think is suited to femininity and place even more burdenson their wives. Our interviewee explains that she was required to ‘remem-ber that he was “female” at all times, and treat him “like a woman”’, which‘even extended to refusing to carry heavy bags when out shopping, eventhough he is a foot taller than me and had far greater upper body strength’.She explains that her husband ‘has refused to do some things in case hebreaks a nail – I kid you not. He has literally said that.’ Helen Boyd reportssimilar behaviour and says that wives of cross-dressers fi nd it infuriating thattheir husbands become helpless as they begin to imitate their idea of what awoman is, in a way which is insulting to women and creates extra work forthem. This might include ‘having your former husband tell you she can’t putup bookshelves because she might break a nail while the unspoken assump-tion is that it’s okay for the woman raised female to put them up’ (Boyd, : 255). Financial exploitationWives commonly complain about the impact of their husbands’ practice onthe family fi nances. Family money is used to buy clothes and make-up, to payfor cross-dressing weekends, for hormones, and in the case of those who gofurther, a range of surgeries from amputation of genitals and the creation ofa fake vagina, to voice box and facial feminisation surgery. One wife in theErhardt collection remarks, acidly, of the fi nancial burden of her husband’spursuit, ‘Gwen feels compelled to devote most of her time to a career inactivism that does not pay the bills’ (Erhardt, 2007 : 176). Another says, ‘Wehave spent or saved an incredible amount of money for Theresa’s new ward-robe, hair care, electrolysis, and hormones, not to mention SRS, and also pos-sibly a hair transplant. This is a big fi nancial burden’ (Erhardt, 2007 : 132). Thewives of ‘Stephanie’ and ‘Trish’ and ‘Mandy’ complain about the difficulty infi nding money for electrolysis, clothes and accessories, hormones and surgery(Erhardt, 2007 : 139; 146). ‘Trish’s’ wife remarks tellingly that ‘I had neverspent that kind of money on myself ’ (Erhardt, 2007 : 152). But the husbandshad a masculine sense of entitlement that trumped their wives’ fi nancial wor-ries and careful husbanding of resources.The loss of community and supportThe distress of wives may be compounded by the fact that their husbands’behaviour may separate them from their support networks. Members of theircommunities may cleave to the transgender husband rather than the aban-doned wife. As Christine Benvenuto expresses it, ‘[T]he political correctnessquotient meant that much of what I had thought of as my community wentto Tracey’ (Benvenuto, 2012a : 81). She considers that this is because support-ing a man who is transgendering is much more politically hip than beingloyal to his wife. Benvenuto lives in a college area full of persons who like tothink of themselves as politically progressive: ‘In the Valley of the PoliticallyCorrect, it’s easy to support a transgendered friend or acquaintance. Betterthan easy. It gives one a sort of panache, for some people a kind of frisson’(Benvenuto, 2012a : 170). Such people found it ‘impossible … to express evenbasic human sympathy for me or for my children’ and their desire to be pol-itically correct meant they had to be ‘fully on board with his gender project’(ibid.). Women who supported her husband went so far as to tell her ‘that mywifely role was to support my man’s gender-bending and to get my childrenon board with the project. My responsibility was to Tracey. Tracey’s responsi-bility was to Tracey’ (Benvenuto, 2012a : 62).Benvenuto found when she published her memoir that lack of commu-nity support was overtaken by actual persecution. Unlike other accounts by wives who support their husbands’ proclivities, despite lamenting the disad-vantages they suff er (Rudd, 1999 ; Boyd, 2004 , 2007 ), Benvenuto’s memoir isa cry of rage that reveals the cataclysmic eff ect upon herself and her childrenwith great clarity. Perhaps because of this, she has experienced consider-able backlash for her temerity in writing it. Her ex-husband, Joy Ladin, anacademic, enlisted friends and members of the transgender community tocampaign against Benvenuto’s writing. In November 2012, Ladin’s support-ers appeared at a book reading by Benvenuto to raise their objections to thebook, and their behaviour was so problematic that the police had to be called(Pfarrer, 2012 ).Benvenuto also experienced backlash over an article she put into a Jewishonline newspaper about what it was like to live in the same small town asyour transgender ex-husband (Benvenuto, 2012b ). She describes details suchas attending a doctor’s appointment about one of her children with her ex,during which they were seen as a lesbian couple and the child to be the off -spring of a sperm donor. The article is no longer available online because herex complained that she had referred to him with male pronouns. The journal,Kveller , gave the following reason for its act of censorship:When it comes to issues that impact a historically (and currently) perse-cuted community it is our responsibility as editors to be extra sensitiveto the exact language being used. Kveller and its parent organization… are committed to honouring the identities and life experience of allpeople, including transgender people.(Kveller, 2012 )Interestingly, it is husbands who transgender who are seen as persecuted andin need of honour and protection here, and not the wives who have suff eredpsychological violence from their husbands. Benvenuto does not accept thather ex-husband is a woman on the grounds that she has had a lengthy sex-ual relationship with him and borne three children from his semen. But herperspective is not honoured. This might suggest that such behaviour by menis an expression of masculine privilege, which elicits the approbation of patri-archal communities and organisations, and the blaming of women.Our interviewee turned to an online group for transgenders and part-ners when in severe need of support and found there was little to be had.It was supposed to be for ‘trans’ and ‘signifi cant others’ but had few activefemale members. The regulars were, she said, ‘privileged, white, late transi-tioners’, many of them simply cross-dressers who wanted to ‘get under thebig umbrella and benefi t from legal protections. They love “gender iden-tity”.’ She attended some social events for ‘trannies’, which were the oppositeof supportive for partners, and the socials served as places where the men ‘could show up and get “dressed” on the premises. It felt very highly sexu-ally charged. There were male “tranny chasers” there who were about thecreepiest men I have ever encountered. Leering and staring from corners.Ugh.’ These experiences accentuated her distress: ‘The TVs there didn’t seemmuch interested in me – they wanted to speak to my partner, and a particu-larly leery, predatory one kept feeling him up. I may as well have been a gravystain on the table.’Not accepting a change of sexThe wives and partners of transgenders are unlikely to accept that a changeof sex has actually taken place. Christine Benvenuto, for instance, said she wasunable to use the male pronouns her husband demanded: ‘Pronouns, of course,became problematic around a person crossing gender lines. I still use the malevariety to refer to Tracey because even now I can’t think, speak, or write aboutthis person any other way’ (Benvenuto, 2012a : 92). She is quite sure that Traceydid not become a woman: ‘He also wasn’t, for me never will be, a woman’(Benvenuto, 2012a : 126). It is, perhaps, not surprising that this level of certaintyshould be common among the wives and partners. They had, after all, beenattracted to their husbands as men, lived with and had sexual relationshipswith them for decades as men, had children with them as men, and the ideathat they could become women had no validity. Pronouns are problematicfor the wives of cross-dressers as well, as one wife explained, ‘I still can’t seemto call my husband a “she” very often’ (Erhardt, 2007 : 76). Another wife of across-dresser said, ‘One of my pet peeves is cross-dressers who insist that thewomen in their lives call them she, girls, or ladies out of respect, or in ordernot to hurt their feelings’ (Erhardt, 2007 : 90). She explains that she was ‘born awoman’ and deserves ‘the title of “she” and shouldn’t have to share it … I don’twant to be expected to see cross-dressers as “real women”’ (ibid.). Husbandscan seek to enforce their pronouns of choice on their wives through emo-tional blackmail. Our interviewee explains how this can work, ‘He was soooohyper-sensitive about any male pronouns and I had to police my language tothe extreme lest he burst into tears and dramatically fl ounce off , leaving mealone in some bar somewhere on the other side of town.’Wives are often deeply discomforted by the ideas that their husbands haveabout ‘femininity’ and womanhood, which are sometimes in stark contrast totheir own. Helen Boyd’s account of living with her transgender husband, Betty,is most instructive regarding the profound disbelief female partners can feel atthe extreme and fantastic versions of ‘femininity’ the men adopt and expectto have accepted as constituting an essence of womanhood (Boyd, 2007 ).Boyd explains that she had been a ‘tomboy’ in her youth, never knew exactlywhat feeling like a woman was supposed to mean and rejected femininity as socially constructed and constricting. She was surprised, therefore, when herhusband told her he did know what it was to feel like a woman, and it wascertainly not what she had ever felt. She explains,The more I encouraged him to fi nd an identity that felt comfortableand natural to him, the more unnatural he seemed to me. His man-ner changed, as did the way he used his hands. He fl ipped his hair andstarted using a new voice.(Boyd, 2007 : 78)She hoped his behaviour was just a ‘phase’ because ‘I felt as if I were liv-ing with Britney Spears. It was like sleeping with the enemy’ (ibid.). Boydobjected very much to being lectured at by cross-dressers that she was notdoing femininity correctly, ‘for not living the glories that are the feminine’(Boyd, 2007 : 79). She particularly disliked criticism by cross-dressers of hersensible shoes: ‘Having men in size 12 sling-backs mock my “librarian shoes”is probably the worst kind of experience I’ve had in the MTF community’(ibid.). Our interviewee also found her husband’s ‘parody’ of female behav-iour through hair fl ipping hard to cope with:I can tell when he’s been thinking about being a woman, or fantasisingabout it … because his voice gets a bit higher and he does that limpwristed thing with the other hand on his waist and he fl icks his haira lot.Her husband was not interested in his wife’s clothes because they did not feedhis fantasy: ‘He doesn’t wear my clothes – not “feminine” enough. He likes towear short skirts, low cut tops, high boots. He calls it a “rock-chick” look.’Several of the wives in the Erhardt collection express similar frustration atthe creation by their husbands of a femininity they cannot relate to, since theywere never much interested in such fripperies themselves. As one expresses it,‘I, who had never cared much about clothes and resented the “Barbie doll”image of women, had a husband who seemed obsessed with clothes and washelpless while his nail polish was drying’, and resembled the ‘teenage primp-ing I have never wanted to do’ (Erhardt, 2007 : 193). Many women acceptedtheir husband’s or partner’s transgenderism on the surface but few completelyaccepted the idea of a woman in a man’s body. An extra difficulty for wives ifthey were to accept that their husbands had actually changed their sex is thatthey would then have to see themselves as ‘lesbians’, and many found this animpossible requirement (Buxton, 2006 ).Our interviewee explains that she had been a ‘do-gooding liberal’ whojust accepted what people said about themselves without ‘examining the political or cultural context of their assertions’, but no longer thought thatway. Nonetheless, as she says, she had never ‘been into “woo” or magic spiritsor essences’, and now realised that ‘a lot of what gets printed about the“woman in a man’s body” makes no scientifi c or rational sense’ and is ‘com-pletely without any credible physiological or neurological basis’. Interestingly,she says that she ‘witnessed’ the way that the male-bodied transgenders‘developed and honed their narratives’ as they changed from just being cross-dressers, who were open about their ‘sexual fetish’, to considering them-selves trans, and saying, ‘Oh my gawd, I must get hormones or I’m gonnakill myself – I am a WOMAN!’ They gain respectability by identifying astransgender rather than just cross-dressers: ‘Most men are ashamed of theirfetish. Calling it “transgender” and developing elaborate theories about it is ameans of making it “respectable” and gaining sympathy from the “born thisway” advocates.’ The narratives of wives can be more enlightening about themotives for this variety of male behaviour than the clinical and popular lit-erature, which tends to accept transgender ideology as truth.The role of wives in feminisationThe unpaid labour that wives and partners are required to perform in sup-port of their husbands’ impersonation of womanhood frequently has a sexualcomponent, which may involve playing the dominatrix in sexual scenar-ios in which they are expected to ‘feminise’ their husbands. There is a veryconsiderable industry online to service male-bodied transgenders, supplyingequipment that includes not just clothes, breast and hip forms, padded pants,corsets, wigs, make-up, and high heels, but also training courses for voice andposture, and pornography. The main theme of both the training materials andof transgender pornography is ‘feminisation’, that is erotic humiliation, andin these rituals wives have a starring role. In the pornography men are forcedto adopt clothing and behaviour that they associate with the subordinate sexcaste, and ‘Amber Goth’s Forced Feminization’ site demonstrates the enlist-ment of wives and female relatives. Goth explains the content of ‘forced fem-inisation’ pornography thus:Some of our stories feature mothers, aunts, grannies, wives etc. whofeminise boys or young men and turn them into girls. This is a commontheme in transgender fi ction and is about wish-fulfi lment on the part oftransgendered folk, who really wish that this could happen to them!(Goth, 2012 )Another example is Cindel Sabante’s book, My Husband, My Panties , in whichthe sexual fantasy involves the wife, and may help to explain why male-bodied transgenders like to surprise their wives while ‘dressed’, expecting an enthusi-astic response in which the wife turns into a dominatrix, as here:Expecting the worst, Annie instead fi nds Mark in an embarrassing pos-ition on the bedroom fl oor. Mark had passed out wearing her clothes!Seeing an opportunity for a little fun, Annie decides to change Markinto her own little female friend, and tests the limits of how far Markis willing to go.(Sabante, 2013 )The active role expected of wives is indicated in the fact that they are referredto as ‘trainers’ on websites devoted to that aspect of transgenderism thatinvolves women’s underwear. A search for ‘My Husband, My Panties’ bringsup 6,010,000 hits and shows the popularity of this theme for cross-dressers(e.g. My Husband’s Panties, 2005 ). Discussions on the sites include men say-ing they wore their mothers’ underwear at the age of twelve, or used tosteal the underwear of the girl next door. Men also speak of specially buyingunderwear for their wives so that they can wear it themselves. Many of thesethemes come up in the accounts by wives featured earlier in this chapter. It islikely to prove quite disappointing for husbands trained to respond sexuallyto such fantasies through their pornography consumption, to fi nd that theirwives do not want to act as ‘trainers’, become distressed, and reject the sexualservicing opportunities that are being off ered to them.The most explicitly sexual version of feminisation is ‘sissifi cation’, whichis very clearly a form of masochistic satisfaction for the male devotees. Menare ‘sissifi ed’, or humiliated, by being required to wear clothing they associatewith women, and then being spanked or subjected to sadomasochist sce-narios by dominatrixes, schoolmistresses and other female authority fi gures(Sissifi cation, n.d.a). The practice is so enchanting for men that a search onthe word brings up 744,000 hits. The use of the term ‘sissy’ is illuminatingsince it is very clearly a term of abuse based upon women’s subordinate sta-tus. It does indicate that there is no positive association with women attachedto this practice, only a degrading and demeaning one. The website entitledSissy School off ers, ‘The Queendom of sissifi cation. And it’s very pink, veryfrilly, and very girlie.’ It off ers material on ‘sissy phone sex, sissy domination,sissy cuckold training or sissy maid training’ (Sissy School, n.d.). Much of thematerial, though, is in the form of video pornography, which was not exam-ined in the research for this book (Sissifi cation, n.d.b).The advice and visual materials on ‘female body language secrets’ are use-ful indications of the transgender perspective on what ‘essential’ feminin-ity consists of. The full ‘feminisation kit’ includes videos, expert interviews,‘special reports’, ‘cheat sheets’, a ‘worksheet’, a ‘resource guide’, a ‘hypnosis program’, and advice on walking, make-up, clothes, hair, and voice feminisa-tion. The idea of a ‘feminine essence’ is somewhat undermined by such anindustry, however, since that which is ‘natural’ and biologically determinedcould not possibly require such detailed instruction. The hypnosis programmewill teach a man how to be a woman on the ‘inside’ in only fi fteen minutes:‘All you have to do is sit back, relax, and let your mind take you on a femin-ine journey. In time, you will fi nd yourself eff ortlessly thinking, feeling, andacting like a real woman!’ (Sorella, n.d.).Transgenders and cross-dressers who gain sexual excitement from wom-en’s subordination can be quite knowledgeable about how such subor-dination works, as the following quote from advice to men on ‘feminineposture’ makes clear. The instruction is called ‘Open vs. closed’ and explainsthat women ‘take up less space than men. This might seem obvious, but I’mamazed at how many girls forget to keep their legs together and their elbowsin. (Genetic girls, too!)’ (Sorella, n.d.). The men gain their satisfactions fromthinking about and acting out precisely the restrictions of movement thatthose born and raised female have been tormented and trapped into by a life-time of training in subordination, and they understand very well what theyare doing: ‘Open body positions are associated with the display of power.Besides making you look more passive and feminine, a closed body positionmakes you appear physically smaller’ (Sorella, n.d.). In this example, the real-ity of women’s subordination becomes a plaything for men’s sexual excite-ment. Though many wives may be unaware of the transgender pornographyempire that underlies their husbands’ practice, they are likely to fi nd the roleexpected of them as audience, helpmeet and dominatrix distasteful, and someare answering back.The resistance movement of wivesIncreasingly, wives are speaking out and the germs of a movement of resist-ance to what they are being subjected to are becoming visible. It is not amovement which comes close in size and infl uence to the transgender activ-ist movement, through which their husbands can gain support, legal remediesand resources. Online sites that are off shoots of that movement purport toprovide for wives but do not necessarily do so. Benvenuto sought supportfrom an online message board for transsexuals and their family members, onlyto fi nd that the message was to give unqualifi ed support to their transitioningpartners: ‘Yes, they could be emotionally abusive. But didn’t their husbandsreally have it much worse? Wasn’t a wife’s job to be supportive – no matterwhat?’ (Benvenuto, 2012a ; 128). One online support site for wives, however,crossdresserswives.com, takes a very diff erent perspective (Crossdresserswives.com, n.d.a). It is specifi cally for wives who are fi nding it very diffi cult to survive their husbands’ behaviour and does not allow ‘stewarding’ by hus-bands. The site provides a Bill of Rights that is illustrative of the aspects ofmen’s cross-dressing practice that wives fi nd most problematic. Though itapplies ostensibly to the wives of cross-dressers rather than men who seekto live as women full-time, all of the ‘rights’ are about precisely those aspectsof their husbands’ behaviour that the wives of more committed personatorsfi nd distressing (Benvenuto, 2012a ). It begins with the right ‘to know prior tomarriage/cohabitation – not to be lied to at the altar’, and goes on to encom-pass the right to tell other people about the problem, to have negative feelingsabout it, the right to reject the practice ‘including sexual acts’, the right to‘refuse to participate or be exposed to the practice of cross dressing’, the rightto leave the relationship, the right to ‘insist on therapy’, and the right to pro-tect the children from ‘psychological trauma’ (Crossdresserswives.com, n.d.b).The material on the website is anonymous, which protects contributors fromthe sort of punishment Benvenuto received.Most of the accounts by wives are explicit about the fact that their hus-bands’ cross-dressing is a sexual practice that wives are now being expectedto tolerate, or take part in, on the grounds that it is some kind of biologicalcondition that the men cannot control. Sexologists and sex therapists havetraditionally expected women to endure their husbands’ expression of theirmasculine sexual prerogatives (Jeff reys, 1990 ; Tyler, 2011 ). Women havebeen guilt-tripped by sex writers such as Alex Comfort, author of The Joyof Sex (Comfort, 1972 ; Jeff reys, 1990 ), into accepting sadomasochist prac-tice that disturbed them, for instance, and into chores such as swallowingsemen though they found it distasteful, and many other practices aimed atmen’s satisfaction at the expense of their own. It continues to be a problemthat as men’s sexual interests change – often through their consumption ofpornography and other elements of the sex industry – the demands uponwives escalate. Anal sex is now commonly demanded by male partners to theextent that sexologists have invented a new sexual problem ‘anodyspareunia’to account for women’s reluctance and pain and to justify creating therapiesto enable women to overcome this (Stulhofer and Ajdukovic, 2011 ). In thecase of transgenderism, it may be even harder for women to object becausethe practice is framed as inevitable and uncontrollable.The mothers of transgendersAll of those who transgender have had mothers, and the mothers suff ermany similar hurts to those experienced by wives and partners, but thisgroup has not been studied at all. There is one book that covers their experi-ence, called Transitions of the Heart (Pepper (ed.), 2012 ). It is composed ofthe stories of mothers, including those who identifi ed their toddler children as transgender and those whose adult sons transitioned in middle age. Thestories are presented with no analysis, the mothers are uncritical of trans-genderism as a practice and all support their off spring wholeheartedly, butthe extraordinary stresses they suff er are clearly expressed. The book appealssentimentally to mother love, as mothers who accept that their children aretransgender and support drugs and surgery for them are represented as par-ticularly loving.Mothers who identifi ed their children at a young age as transgender – inone case as early as one year old – did so on account of their preferences forparticular toys or clothes. Their criteria directly refl ect those that comprisethe defi nition of gender identity disorder in childhood and refl ect traditionalsex stereotypes that feminists have long critiqued. Mothers who are involvedin imposing such rigid roles on their young children should not, perhaps, beseen as entirely blameless in the transgendering of children, as they play anactive role. At the other extreme, some of the off spring are themselves alreadyretirees and came out as transgendered to their mothers at an advanced age.The mothers generally express grief at the loss of the little girl or boy thatthey gave birth to. They express mourning and talk of endless crying as theytried to come to terms with their grief. The editor, Rachel Pepper, expressesthe dilemma of mothers thus: ‘For as children transition, so too must theirfamilies’ (Pepper, 2012 : xviii). The mothers suff ered severe psychological dis-tress, as one described: ‘I whirled mentally and emotionally … Feelings ofconfusion, insecurity, fear, and sadness’ (Pepper (ed.), 2012 : 84). They express astrong sense of loss at the transgenderism of their off spring. They loved themas the biological sex to which they were born, and felt they lost those lovedpersons when they transitioned.One woman describes her grief at seeing her adult son go through extremebody dysphoria as he embarks on many surgeries to remake his body in theimage of his fantasy: ‘Yet another operation for my child … My transgenderdaughter says she’s still not right, still doesn’t look a hundred per cent like awoman. She has gone through gender reassignment surgery, cosmetic shavingof the jaw line and nose, and two hair transplants. She now says that the bonesof her eyebrows and the hairline are not right’ (Pepper, 2012 : 119). In describ-ing her son she says he, ‘still stares endlessly in the mirror, still sees things noone else sees, and I grieve for her’. Watching this self-mutilation caused greatdistress. Since the National Health Service in the UK would only pay for sex-reassignment surgery and not all the extras, the mother worried about thecost to her son’s family fi nances: ‘will it just be another 5,000 pounds downthe drain?’ (Pepper (ed.), 2012 : 118).Mothers, too, suff er from the self-centredness that the men who trans-gender can exhibit. This same mother describes the disturbing change inpersonality that took place in her son as he transitioned: She was still operating as a man at this point. She was so full of hate andanger towards women. I wondered if it was jealousy … she has becomeremarkably fl at in personality. We fi nd this apparent lack of emotiondifficult to accept. She is highly intelligent, but the self-obsession, para-noia, and the avoidance of society which seems to go with her condi-tion, has taken its toll. We are all hoping that she will now fi nally moveon with her life.(Pepper, 2012 : 120)The ‘all’ who were so adversely aff ected included his mother, wife and youngchildren.Some mothers have the misfortune to have to go through multiple expe-riences of losing their family members to transgenderism. In one case awoman lost both her twin daughters, who had come out as lesbians at highschool but went on to transition (Pepper (ed.), 2012 : 125). In another casea mother lost both her husband and her daughter to transgenderism. Themother explains that the husband was a cross-dresser who went on to tran-sition, and infl uenced the girl child to follow his lead: ‘My husband wantedour twelve-year-old daughter Heather to go through transition with him,including surgery’ (Pepper (ed.), 2012 : 155). Heather changed her name atsixteen and at eighteen had a hysterectomy. When parents enable their chil-dren to transition, the fi nancial costs they bear are considerable. Pubertyblockers for the children cost US$4,500–15,000 yearly, and therapy addsanother cost (Pepper (ed.), 2012 : 125). Whereas some mothers are clearlythe victims of the practice of transgenderism, in some cases they can be seento collude with patriarchal sex stereotyping and may even off er up theirchildren as sacrifi ces upon the altar of ‘gender’. Research is needed into theparents who actively seek to transgender their off spring.It is time for a rethink in relation to the suff ering that men who transgenderinfl ict upon their wives. It may need to be understood as an under-recognisedform of psychological violence towards women, a situation in which womenneed the serious support structures that are seen as appropriate when they arethe victims of other forms of bullying from male partners. An understandingof the harms that male-bodied transgenders infl ict upon their wives shouldcause all feminists, women concerned for the welfare of their sisters, to thinkseriously about the ethics of unconditional acceptance of the identities andpronouns of men whose wives are suff ering. Feminists who accept a man as‘she’ when his wife, children, mother cannot, and feel abused by the demandthat they should, are abandoning an increasingly large section of womankind and expunging them from the community of women who deserve respect, infavour of supporting men in the exercise of their prerogatives.Husbands transition as a result of their masculine prerogative, which isparticularly forceful around matters that concern their sexual satisfaction. Butwives are no longer as submissive and self-eff acing as they were in the earlydays of transgenderism. Some are becoming very angry, and the beginningsof collective organisation are emerging. The voices of wives need to be heardbecause they have the capacity to break through the liberal fantasy of essentialtransgenderism. Wives say that their husbands are not, and cannot be women.It makes no sense to them that the men whose semen was essential to thecreation of their children, and whose ‘feminine’ endeavours resemble Barbiedolls, should be called ‘she’ and given social kudos. Unfortunately, women’svoices are not powerful in patriarchal societies where the voices of the fathersin the form of sexologists, psychiatrists and endocrinologists are taken ser-iously when women’s lifetime experience is disdained.The transgendering of women and men need to be considered separatelybecause they are very diff erent phenomena. They are, however, usually runtogether in the literature as if they were but two faces of one single prac-tice. The main diff erence stems from the fact that ‘gender’ is a political cat-egory that signifi es caste status. Therefore, members of the superior caste,men, ostensibly lose status when they transgender, but for cross-dressersthis can be precisely the reason for doing so as they can gain masochisticsatisfaction. However, it should be recognised that, as we have seen in thelast chapter, men who transgender do not surrender all their male privil-ege but carry it with them into diff erent social contexts and are still able towield authority over women. Members of the inferior caste, women, havequite a diff erent experience when they transgender. They raise their statusthereby, and in a society in which hatred and degradation of women hasvery harmful eff ects on women’s sense of self, as well as a depressing eff ecton their lifetime earnings, this could be a powerful motivation to seek toenter the superior sex caste. The transgendering of women is an antidoteto feminism because it is a way in which individual women can raise theirstatus by joining the caste of men. In contrast feminism seeks to dismantlemale superiority so that the status of all women is raised, and this task is inno way advantaged by the social mobility towards masculine status of a tinyminority of women.Men who transgender fi nd the existence of women who have transitioneduseful because they can be seen, in the absence of any recognition of thediff erences, to confi rm the authenticity of their own practice. Phyllis Frye,for instance, a US judge and one of the architects of the International Bill ofGender Rights 1995, specifi cally comments on how helpful the existence ofsuch women has been: In my experience, nothing destroys the stereotypes of transgenders bet-ter than when a person unexpectedly meets a long-term FTM (female-to-male). FTMs completely obliterate the stereotype of the transgender.FTMs also provide a strong link to the feminist movement. Becausemany of them have backgrounds in lesbian and women’s rights politics,they are able to bring training, insight and political connections.(Frye, 2000 : 141)The similarities consist of the fact that the idea of transgenderism is a con-struction of the medical profession in both cases, the fact that both practicesrely upon, and reinforce, harmful stereotypes of gender, and the fact that theyinfl ict severe harms to health and human functioning. In other respects, how-ever, the diff erences are considerable. To begin with, men dominate the prac-tice. There has historically been a considerable gap in the numbers, whichis still refl ected in those who receive gender recognition certifi cates in theUK today, with three in every four persons who transgender being male(Ministry of Justice, 2012 ). There are diff erences in sexual orientation. Themajority of men who transgender are heterosexual and in relationships withwomen at the time, and only a minority are men who have relationshipswith men (Lawrence, 2004 ). They are attracted to women prior to transition,and continue to be attracted to women after transition, at which point theyare likely to identify as lesbians. In the case of women who transgender, thevast majority relate sexually to women and most identify as lesbians and havebeen long-term members of the lesbian community before they transition(Devor, 1999 ). They are straightened out by transition and mostly considerthemselves to be in heterosexual relationships after the event.The very diff erent contexts in which men and women transgender con-stitute another very considerable diff erence between these practices. Theheterosexual majority of male-bodied transgenders have no male culture offemininity through which to understand themselves. The vast majority offemale-bodied transgenders, on the other hand, have inhabited a lesbian cul-ture in which masculinity is valorised and many will have adopted aspectsof stereotypical masculinity in their appearance long before they decided totransition. Within lesbian culture, the practice of butch/femme role playing,in which the female partners in a relationship adopt the stereotyped roles thatprovide the foundation for heterosexuality, was common in some sections ofthe community before the advent of second wave feminism in the 1960s andhas experienced a rebirth since the 1980s (Jeff reys, 1989 ). It is in the role play-ing of butchness and the valorisation of masculinity that the phenomenon offemale-bodied transgenderism has its origins (Jeff reys, 2003 ). This very con-siderable diff erence between male and female aspirants aff ects, for instance,the degree of support that they receive. The female partners of women whotransgender may see transition as simply an extension of the butchness theyhave already accepted as part of role playing practice. The lesbian commu-nities in which female-bodied transgenders come out as ‘men’ may fi nd thisunsurprising to the extent that they have previously accepted extreme formsof masculine acting-out as an ordinary part of lesbianism. For male-bodiedtransgenders the situation is diff erent. Though they may have gained satisfac-tion from thinking about themselves as ‘feminine’ for some time, they willusually have partners and communities for whom the idea of femininity inmen is an unfamiliar and unpalatable concept.Another singular diff erence, as the sexological literature makes plain, is thefact that transgender behaviour on the part of women is not a form of sexualfetishism as it commonly is for men (Bailey and Triea, 2007 ). While sexualfetishism – in the form of being excited by donning clothing stereotypic-ally associated with women or seeking ‘female’ body parts – is increasinglybeing seen as explanatory of much male-bodied transgenderism, it off ers noexplanation for the female-bodied variety. Female-bodied transgenders donot have histories of cross-dressing in men’s underpants for sexual excite-ment, and another form of explanation must be found.There is, however, no literature that seeks an explanation for transgender-ism on the part of women. The literature either takes transgenderism forgranted, as though it was a natural phenomenon, or it is celebratory. Criticalexamination that seeks explanations would likely be viewed as hostile and‘transphobic’ because it undermines the ideology that represents transgender-ism as inevitable and essential. But if the phenomenon is not viewed as awork of nature, which just happens to be manifesting itself with remarkablefrequency in the last three decades, then it is necessary to ask why it is takingplace. Understanding female-bodied transgenderism from a feminist perspec-tive provides a number of forms of explanation, all of which are related to theworkings of male domination (Thompson, 2001 ).One form of explanation to be considered here is that transgenderismis attractive because the societal hatred and subordination of women and oflesbians, and the valorisation of men, are forces that make it more attractivefor some women to escape their relegation to subordinate womanhood andseek the advantages that the adoption of manhood will bring. There is littledoubt that men in Western societies gain signifi cant advantages from theirsex caste status. These are economic, refl ected in much higher lifetime earn-ings; physical, in terms of safety from male sexual violence and unwantedpregnancy; and psychological, in terms of self-regard and well-being. Theseadvantages have been termed, by the male-bodied transgender sociologist,Raewyn Connell, the ‘patriarchal dividend’, which constitutes ‘the advantagemen gain in general from the overall subordination of women’ (Connell, : 79). Another form of explanation consists of the way in which female- bodied transgenderism emerges as an extension of butch role playing in les-bian communities. ‘Gender’ is the sorting system of male domination andconstitutes the hierarchy in which men have power over women. Its ubiquityand importance make it hard to think outside the box of gender and trad-itionally, in lesbian communities, ‘gender’ has been reproduced as lesbianshave sought to understand themselves within the norms of their society.Butch/femme role playing and transgenderism by womenButch/femme role playing was common in parts of some lesbian communi-ties before the 1970s. It was challenged by lesbian feminism, which sought tocreate equal relationships between women, free from the constraints imposedby a patriarchal heterosexuality that framed eroticism as only imaginablebetween persons playing masculine/feminine roles. In the 1990s lesbian roleplaying was rehabilitated and created a foundation for the transgendering oflesbians. Some lesbians resented the feminist challenge to role playing becausethey considered that their sexuality was linked to butch/femme roles andthat this eroticised inequality was indeed the very embodiment of essentiallesbianism. Such a reaction is described by Arlene Lev, a lesbian psychother-apist who works with those who consider themselves transgender and wrotethe book Transgender Tapestry ( 2004 ). Her perspective is important becauseher book has made her infl uential within transgender studies. She explains,in the Journal of Lesbian Studies , her despair at entering a lesbian event in thelate 1980s and fi nding that all the lesbians who were there, who were havinga great time, were ungendered in their appearance. She found she was notsexually attracted to any of them:I looked around at the room of androgynous lesbians – sweet women,laughing and enjoying themselves, comfortable in their bodies and thecelebration of sexuality that dancing with your own can bring – andwith the suddenness of an electric shock, I realized there was not onewoman in the room who I could imagine dating. My community, ahome in my heart, left me sexually cold, aloof.(Lev, 2008 : 134)They were not role playing power diff erence so they were simply not attract-ive to her.Feminism wrought dramatic changes on the practices of lesbians in thes (Jennings, 2006 ). In her fascinating account of the history of the iconicLondon lesbian club, the Gateways, from the 1940s to the 1980s, From theCloset to the Screen , Jill Gardiner uses material from her interviews to describehow feminism infl uenced the club clientele (Gardiner, 2003 ). Prior to thes, lesbians who used the club were likely to engage in role playing andeven call themselves by male names, as the novelist Mary Duff y describes inher novel, The Microcosm (Duff y, 1966 ). Recalling that time, lesbians explainthat there was no option to identifying as butch or femme, and lesbians whowere not identifi able were derided (Jennings, 2006 : 218). Historian, RebeccaJennings, explains that in role playing etiquette ‘strict codes of behaviourstructured who might dance with whom’ and ‘established boundaries, defi n-ing who was sexually available to whom’. This paralleled the rules of het-erosexuality, ‘a similar organizational function to that provided by notions ofgender in mainstream society’ (Jennings, 2006 : 220, 221). The impact of fem-inism, Jennings explains, made adoption of ‘the extremes of masculine andfeminine which were central to butch/femme clothing’ unnecessary, becauselesbians could ‘wear trousers and … follow their personal preferences in dress’without question. Also feminism caused many to feel ‘uncomfortable withthe notion of asking a butch’s permission to dance with a femme and refusedto comply with accepted conventions’ (Jennings, 2006 : 223). Lesbians whoembraced feminism abandoned role playing and were able to engage enthu-siastically in sexual relationships without any resort to the trappings of gen-dered power diff erence. But some, like Lev, clearly found this difficult.According to the anti-feminist narrative of transpolitics and sexual lib-ertarian/queer lesbianism, it was precisely lesbian feminism that oppressedbutches and femmes and drove them out of the lesbian community, and theresurgence of role playing practice from the 1980s onwards is seen as thereturn of the repressed. Arlene Lev writes, ‘The rise of lesbian-feminist polit-ics in the 1970s eff ectively drove butch-femme identities, communities, andexpression underground, silencing, and therefore historically distorting, dis-cussions of gender expression in lesbian relationships’ (Lev, 2008 ). The greatmistake of lesbian feminists, she says, was that ‘gender expression itself becameseen as a tool of the patriarchy’ (Lev, 2008 : 131). She is correct in that ‘gen-der’ roles are understood in feminist theory not as harmless tools of sexualexcitement and fashion, but the stratifi cation system of male domination.They show who is up and who is down, and regulate behaviour accordingly.In transgender mythmaking, it was lesbian feminists who should bear someresponsibility for constructing female-to-male transgenderism through thisprocess of expulsion. Butches, unable to fi nd a valorised place in lesbian com-munity, were forced out into transgenderism.In fact, though she represents role playing as simply the natural form oflesbian interaction, Lev makes it clear that she does indeed understand roleplaying as representing the traditional roles of patriarchal heterosexuality. Sheexplains, Butch and femme are, at their root, gendered erotic identities. Butches,assigned and identifi ed as females, experience their sexuality as medi-ated through masculinity. Femmes, by reclaiming a socially scornedfemininity, broadcast their sexuality – a lesbian-specifi c sexuality – bypublicizing their attraction to masculine females.(Lev, 2008 : 133)The biggest problem, and it is one that the femmes complain about a greatdeal, is that this does not work for them since their lesbianism is invisible.Both in the malestream world and in lesbian communities, they may not berecognised as lesbians and fi nd they are assumed to be heterosexual (Jeff reys, ). They suff er the marginalisation and exclusion that are commonlywomen’s lot in a heteropatriarchal society that valorises masculinity. Similarly,as we shall see in this chapter, the partners of lesbians who transgender canfi nd they have no role in parts of the lesbian community and are not recog-nised as lesbians, while their transgender partners do have a place.Lev explains the role of the femme as being the responsibility to supportthe butch, as the ‘butch/femme dance’ celebrates ‘the masculinity of butchlesbians, and in that act heals some of the disembodiment butches can experi-ence’ (Lev, 2008 : 136). Femmes are required to sustain the masculinity of theirlovers and this role, too, is common to the dynamics of relationships in whichone partner transgenders. Butches are heroised as the true lesbians, thosewho bear the slings and arrows of anti-lesbianism and deserve acclaim fortheir political resistance. There is an analogue of this in the problems of non-transgender partners of female-bodied transgenders, who must put eff ort intocreating the illusion of their trans partner’s manhood, even to the extent ofpretending that she did not have a ‘girlhood’ and was always somehow male.The partners are required to enter into a folie à deux to maintain the precar-ious, and ultimately implausible, idea that one partner has changed their sex.Within lesbian role playing, butch/femme couples, Lev explains, recre-ate heteropatriarchal roles very precisely and ‘according to emerging reports’they ‘enact family roles in sexualized and erotic ways … meaning that rolesof Mommy, Daddy, Son and Daughter, are enacted – sexually and romantic-ally – within the intimate narratives of the couple’ (Lev, 2008 : 138). Femmes,she says, act just like the traditional wives of male domination by creatingsafe homes for their butch and family, ‘I would like to suggest that one ofthe most subversive acts that femmes have accomplished is the establishmentof a safe haven for their families in often hostile environments, through thecreation of homes and through the process of homemaking’ (ibid.). Femmes,it transpires, do ‘Women’s domestic work – the work of cooking, cleaning,mending, and kissing “owies” – work that I suspect originated from and wassustained by the hands of femmes in femme/butch relationships, has mostlygone unnoticed or judged irrelevant or apolitical’ (Lev, 2008 : 139). As femin-ist economists have pointed out, housework is still viewed as ‘women’s work’and those sporting masculinity are exempt (Jeff reys, 2012 ; Waring, 1989 ). Thatwhich Lev seeks to romanticise is fundamental to women’s inequality.It is this normalisation of butch/femme role playing that created the foun-dation for the development of the practice of female-bodied transgender-ism in the 1990s. Lesbians who transition, like Chaz Bono, often understoodthemselves to be butch lesbians beforehand (Bono, 2011 ). The issue of whetherlesbians who transgender are simply going a bit further than those who remainidentifi ed as butches and eschew the opportunity to transition has been muchdebated in the lesbian community. Indeed a phrase has been developed to dis-cuss this issue, the ‘border wars’, meaning the border between butchness andtransgenderism (Halberstam and Hale, 1998 ). Some lesbian writers have arguedthere is scarcely any diff erence, while others have sought to establish that thereis a considerable diff erence, not just one of degree of masculinity adopted, butin the essence of the practice, meaning that the lesbians who transgender reallyare ‘men’ whereas butches remain female however they behave. Butch/femmerole playing recreates the roles of the heteropatriachy, while transgenderismgoes further by attempting to recreate the bodies thereof. Butches are oftenproud of their lesbianism, but those who transition extirpate their lesbianismand engage, through the use of hormones and surgery, in the medical creationof heterosexuality. It is an archetypically heteronormative practice.The transgendering of lesbians can be characterised as another example ofthe ways in which the medical profession has sought to straighten out lesbians,since the majority of those women who ‘trans’ relate to women afterwards,creating a heterosexual couple (Jeff reys, 2003 ). This could be understood as ahuman rights violation, just one more way in which the socially despised statusof‘lesbian’ can be expunged through the connivance of the medical professionand the state. Only if they are recognised as ‘men’, in most states, are lesbianspermitted to marry each other or access other rights (McConville and Mills, ).The harmful effects of female-bodied transgenderismon lesbians and on feminismWithin lesbian communities dominated by queer politics, an increasing num-ber of women are transitioning to a simulacrum of maleness (Bauer, 2008 ;Weiss, 2007 ). The harmful eff ects of transgendering on the bodies of thosewomen who transition are dealt with elsewhere in this volume. This chapterexamines the harmful eff ects on the lesbian community, on lesbian relation-ships, and on feminism. During the wave of transgendering of males thatbegan in the last decades of the twentieth century, lesbians were slow to join in. The practice was unknown in the lesbian community of the 1970s andremained very rare well into the 1990s. The phenomenon does not fi gure inimportant collections of lesbian essays in the 1970s such as Our Right to Love(Vida (ed.), 1978 ), or even in Julia Penelope’s edited collection Lesbian Culturefrom 1993. The latter included a piece on butch and femme in the 1950sfrom Joan Nestle, but nothing about transgenderism.One clear eff ect of the transgendering of lesbians is that it disappears theirlesbianism in a literal way, by so changing their bodies and presentation thatthey no longer resemble women or lesbians, though they generally seek rela-tionships with women and lesbians and remain within lesbian communities.The history of lesbianism has been shown by lesbian historians and com-mentators to be one of persecution, and elimination from the public record(Klaich, 1974 ). Transgenderism fi ts into this grim history by once more mak-ing lesbians invisible. For many of those who would once have been lesbians,transgenderism is the newly fashionable style. All of the city groups and ser-vices that were once set up by lesbians and feminists in the 1970s to providefor lesbian communities have now been replicated for lesbians who trans-gender. There are social groups, political groups, fi nancial planning groups (topay for surgeries), lists of transfriendly venues, lists of potential trans room-mates (Hudson, n.d.).There is one signifi cant diff erence, however; the existence of groups forthe partners of lesbians who transgender. Before the phenomenon of trans-genderism, both partners in a relationship were lesbians and could attend allthe same groups and neither required special services. Female-bodied trans-genderism shuts the partners of these women out of the lesbian communitiesthat have shaped and supported their lives because they are now seen as reallyheterosexual. This disappearance of lesbians has a negative eff ect upon femin-ism too, because lesbians were the founders of so many important institutionsfor women, refuges and rape crisis centres, publishers, bookshops, theatregroups and bands. Lesbian feminists in second wave feminism worked withhuge energy for the benefi t of all women, including other lesbians. To theextent that pride in being women and lesbians has been the basis of lesbianfeminism, and therefore crucial to the feminist movement, this disappearanceof lesbians constitutes a severe harm to this politics.Presently female-bodied transgenderism has progressed as a practice to thepoint where it is plentifully justifi ed, described and celebrated, even in thefeminist academy. In the last few years there have been special issues on trans-genderism of Women’s Studies Quarterly (Volume 36, 3 and 4, 2008), and, ontransgenderism and intersexuality, of the Journal of Lesbian Studies (Volume 10, and 2, 2006). There is little or no critical comment about transgenderism inthe journal articles. This level of coverage is indicative of the burgeoning ofthe practice. In 2013, the peak body for women’s studies in the United States,the National Women’s Studies Association (NWSA), has an ‘interest group’for ‘feminist masculinities’ (NWSA, 2013 ). Whereas once those involved inwomen’s studies, like other feminists, would have seen masculinity as theproblem that feminism needed to dismantle, now it is being vaunted as a life-style choice that is consistent with, if not exemplary of, academic feminism.This is a good indication of the extent to which some branches of academicfeminism have drifted away from feminist activism and the feminist move-ment, and become at best irrelevant and at worst toxic to the possibility ofthe liberation of women.The physical harms that women experience from hormones and surgeryare considerable and are covered in detail in a previous chapter, but multipleharms are infl icted upon women’s and lesbian communities, too, from thispractice. The women partners of those lesbians who transition suff er grief,loss and distress that is similar to the suff ering of the partners of male-bodiedtransgenders, but there are some signifi cant diff erences that result from thefact that the transition takes place in a lesbian couple and takes the formof emulating masculinity, which is the behaviour of the superior sex casteof men.Accessing the patriarchal dividendhave access to the patriarchal dividend, the privi-leges and advantages that appertain to men in systems of male domination.For lesbians, in particular, this may be an attractive option, because as ‘butches’they suff er anti-lesbian discrimination and harassment that can be alleviatedif their persecutors consider that they are actually ‘men’. One important andvery material aspect of the patriarchal dividend is economic. The economicdividend is clearly revealed, for instance, in the very great diff erences betweenthe average amounts of money that women and men will earn in their life-times and the amount of money on which they can hope to retire. Femalebusiness executives in the UK will earn only two-thirds that which maleexecutives, who are similarly situated and start and fi nish working at the sameage, earn in their lifetimes (Barrow, 2012 ). This is a very substantial advan-tage for men and it has been poorly explained by economists. Very interest-ing research by Kristen Schilt, however, has demonstrated precisely how thepatriarchal dividend works for female-bodied transgenders in the workplace(Schilt, 2006 ). Schilt interviewed twenty-nine women who had transgen-dered about their experience while working as women, and after their tran-sition. Some of the women remained in their original places of work duringand after transition, and some changed their place of work, but in both casesthey received considerable advantages compared with their previous experi-ence. Schilt explains that though the women had exactly the same skills, education and abilities after transition, how ‘this ‘human capital’ is perceivedoften varies drastically once they become men at work’ (Schilt, 2006 : 466).Female-bodied transgenders gained a ‘reward’ in the form of ‘a type ofbodily respect’, which meant ‘being freed from unwanted sexual advances orinquiries about sexuality’ (Schilt, 2006 : 479). The behaviour from male co-workers that ceased after transition included grabbing breasts and being called‘honey’ and ‘babe’. According to two respondents, being transgender wasgreatly preferable to being ‘obvious’ lesbians in the workplace as they couldescape ‘sexualized comments’ and ‘invasive personal questions about sexual-ity’. Such privilege was only available to ‘stealth’ transgenders, that is thosewho were not open about their transitions. Stealth transgenders gained ‘phys-ical autonomy and respect’ and ‘less touching, groping’ (Schilt, 2006 : 479).There were other very substantial gains, as female-bodied transgendersfound that they acquired greater respect and authority in their work, andwere given more staff and resources to do their jobs. When seen as ‘men’ theyhad to work less hard, received more positive reviews for that work, and weremore rewarded. One of Schilt’s interviewees explained how these advantagesaccrued not just to employees, but to those who set up their own businesses:‘I have this company that I built, and I have people following me; they trustme, they believe in me, they respect me. There is no way I could have donethat as a woman’ (Schilt, 2006 : 482). This female-bodied transgender explainedthat though some women achieved success as entrepreneurs, it would havebeen particularly difficult for an obvious lesbian to do that. Transitioningeliminated that disadvantage. Several other interviewees explained that as les-bians who were butch or ‘gender ambiguous’, they received cruel humilia-tions such as not being allowed to walk in the front door of the restaurant inwhich they worked lest they project the wrong image for the establishment.As ‘men’ they were able to wear clothing that they would otherwise havebeen pilloried for and achieve the professional success that would otherwisehave eluded them.One-third of the participants said they did not gain an advantage, but thiswas usually because they were in the early stages of transition or not seen asmen. Height could make a big diff erence, since small women would, aftertransition, be smaller than average men and might not garner the same respectas a taller male would. Some felt they looked extremely young after transi-tion and this aff ected the way in which they were treated. Black and Asianwomen who transitioned reported that though relieved of the structural dis-advantage of being seen as ‘women’, they still suff ered disadvantage as a resultof racism. As Schilt comments, the advantages that women gain when theytransition bring into focus the eff ect that cultural beliefs about gender, whichare embedded in workplace structures, have on women’s inequality. Theresearch illuminates the invisible but very important and pervasive everydaydiscrimination that women experience, but may not, in the absence of any-thing to compare it with, be able to identify. It also shows, Schilt argues, thatwomen are not impeded in their advancement in the workplace by socialisa-tion as female, which aff ects their decisions and behaviour, since women withthe same socialisation who transitioned were able to advance perfectly well.Women, this shows, are structurally disadvantaged by the way that others seeand treat them, rather than any qualities they may display.In later research, Kristen Schilt and a colleague examined the workplaceexperience of male-bodied transgenders (Schilt and Wiswall, 2008 ). Theyfound that men who transition lose money, through ‘signifi cant losses inhourly earnings’ (Schilt and Wiswall, 2008 : 4). They conclude that the lateraverage age at which men transition, forty years, compared with women,thirty years, is related to these losses. They suggest that men intending to tran-sition strategically ‘change their gender later to preserve their male advantageas long as possible’, whereas female-bodied transgenders ‘on the other hand… maximize their expected gains from becoming men by changing theirgender earlier’ (Schilt and Wiswall, 2008 : 19). Schilt’s work is important as anexcellent example of a feminist understanding of gender as a hierarchy anda way of organising power diff erence, rather than as an essence, as it is com-monly said to be in transgender theory. Her 2006 article is titled, ‘Just Oneof the Boys: Making Gender Visible in the Workplace’. It does not use theword ‘gender’ to refer just to clothing preferences or ways of behaving, as iscommonly the case in transgender ideology. What is made visible is the wayin which ‘gender’, as a caste system, creates advantage for men and disadvan-tage for women.Another signifi cant gain from transitioning consists of greater physicalsecurity and freedom from fear. Women who transgender escape the abuse,harassment and violence from men that those women who remain on thegender frontlines continue to experience. In the workplace, as Schilt shows( 2006 ), sexual harassment in the form of grabbing body parts and sexualisedcomments and questions are all part of the disadvantage that female-bodiedtransgenders leave behind when they transition. Moreover, transitioning outof womanhood may off er a vision of safety to some women who have suf-fered severe violence from men. Though there is a dearth of research exam-ining the experiences that female-bodied transgenders have of violence,there is some work that suggests a connection. Holly (now Aaron) Devor, forinstance, found in research she carried out before she herself transgenderedthat female-bodied transgenders had experienced a high occurrence of vio-lence in childhood (Devor, 1994 ). Seventeen of her forty-fi ve respondents(38 per cent), reported signifi cant physical abuse in their childhood homes,and fourteen (31 per cent), reported sexual abuse. Altogether, 60 per cent ofher total had experienced physical, sexual or emotional abuse, and in most cases, she explains, these forms of abuse were those likely to lead to the mostsignifi cant psychological harms in later life. She takes pains to point out thatthese fi gures refl ect only those who chose to bring up abuse while tellingtheir stories, since she asked no questions about it. She adds that the factthat trangenders are keen to represent themselves as psychologically robust,lest they be denied medical treatment or suff er greater discrimination, mayfurther reduce the percentage of those mentioning abuse. Nonetheless thefi gures are signifi cant. She suggests that ‘in some cases transsexualism may bean extreme adaptive dissociative response to severe child abuse’ (Devor, 1994 :). In these cases, she hypothesises,a male protector/survivor personality, which functions co-consciously… with the original female personality, might act as a defense,and later, after many years of reinforcing psychological and social-ization experiences, as an escape route from otherwise intolerablepsychic pain.(ibid.)These women had created a male ‘avatar’ to give themselves a shield againstviolence in their youth and this formed the template for the male they thensought to become. This research was conducted two decades ago, and therehas, unfortunately, been nothing similar. It raises the question of how littleinvestigation takes place by the medical profession into the backgrounds ofthe women whom they transgender.There are other disadvantages of womanhood that women who trans-gender are able to escape from, such as the onslaught of ‘beauty practices’ thatgirls and women are required to carry out upon their bodies in order to beacceptably feminine and sexually attractive to men. These include depilation,diets, cosmetic surgery, make-up, high heeled shoes, tight and revealing cloth-ing (Jeff reys, 2005 ). Male domination, and the low and stigmatised status ofwomen, cause teenage girls to engage in punishment of their bodies througheating disorders and self-mutilation (Jeff reys, 2000 , ). There is increas-ing evidence that woman-hating Western cultures are toxic to girls and veryharmful to their mental health (APA Task Force, 2007 ). It is, perhaps, notsurprising, therefore, that there seem to be some girls baling out and seekingto upgrade their status. Medical developments in surgery and drugs, and anincreasingly entrenched medical ideology of essential gender that can acci-dentally reside in the wrong body, could appear to provide forms of escape forsome girls and women. Lesbians may seek to escape anti-lesbian discrimin-ation and the abuse that stems from the social hatred of lesbianism, which is asubset of the hatred of women. Becoming self-confi dent lesbians or feministscan protect women from the worst eff ects of this misogyny, but at presentmost women are likely to see no way out but to comply with the demands offemininity or suff er the ignominy of social exclusion for their refusal. In theabsence of feminist revolution, transgenderism may appear to off er a solutionto some, but one that entails severe punishment of the body. It wreaks havocon the potential equality that can exist in lesbian relationships too.Female-bodied transgenderism in relationshipsIn the last few years feminist researchers have studied the relationships thatfemale-bodied transgenders have with other women. This work is fascinat-ing on several fronts. It enables an evaluation of the claim that transgender-ism is transgressive, and shows the heteronormative architecture on whichthe relationships are often built. Also, this research shows quite clearly thattransgenderism is not just an individual pursuit, as the masculinity of thetrans partner has to be constantly reproduced in relationship with others.Masculinity is part of a binary and requires its opposite, since, in the absenceof femininity, masculinity would have no meaning. Much of the hard work ofthe non-trans partners is directed to the construction of their partners’ mas-culinity, physically, through doing the hormone injections and, symbolically,by femming up to emphasise the gender diff erence.Exponents of queer and transgender studies commonly argue that trans-genders challenge and transgress gender norms and the rules of heteronor-mative relationships. In an article on how challenging transgender lifestylesare, the authors argue, ‘The experiences and perceptions of transgender indi-viduals fundamentally challenge society’s normative beliefs and theoreticalideas about the nature of gender roles, gender identity, and sexual orientation’(Nagoshi et al ., 2012 : 406). Such research is usually short on details of exactlyhow this occurs. Research that studies the relationships that transgendersactually have, does not bear out the much vaunted transgressiveness of thepractice at all, with one study of the relationships of transgenders fi nding that‘participants were strongly infl uenced by heteronormative discourses’ (Iantaffiand Bockting, 2011 ). This has been found to be the case in the relationshipsthat female-bodied transgenders have with women, too, and this is perplex-ing, since research on housekeeping in lesbian relationships where neitherpartner has transitioned, for instance, shows something rather diff erent, aquite equal division of labour (Dunne, 2000 ; Kurdek, 2007 ; Solomon et al . ). When lesbians transgender this equality drops away, and a commontheme of research on their relationships is that they seek to mirror heterosex-ual ones in many ways (Brown, 2009 ). Transgenderism re-establishes inequal-ity in relationships between women. As we have seen in the previous chapter,the wives of men who transgender also fi nd themselves burdened with newforms of housework and with the creation and maintenance of their partners’ new ‘gender’. In both cases it is female partners who are expected to shoulderthese burdens.One of the heteronormative dimensions is the onus of relationship build-ing and maintenance, which in heterosexual relationships rests on the femalepartner (Kamo, 2000 ). Pfeff er’s research, in which she interviewed the non-trans partners, has found this pattern also appertains for women in relation-ships with female-bodied transgenders ( 2010 ). She found that the stories ofthe non-transitioning partners ‘resonate’ with heterosexual couples in thatthey perform the traditional household duties as well as the emotional labour,just as heterosexual housewives have been expected to do. Importantly, thenon-transitioning partner takes on the burden of supporting and enabling theaspirant partner as she goes through the transition process. The participantscommonly reported ‘inegalitarian, gender-stereotyped divisions of householdlabor between themselves and their trans men partners’ (Pfeff er, 2010 : 173).One woman, when asked how much of her life comprised ‘taking care of herpartner and issues related to transition’ said, ‘about 70% of my life. That’s scaledback from what it was’ (Pfeff er, 2010 : 174). She maintains the household, does‘massive’ amounts of her partner’s ‘own work – school work’, as well as ‘a hugeamount of emotional time spent in processing transitioning, family, frustra-tions around the transition process’; meanwhile her own thesis was neglected.The partners of female-bodied transgenders found themselves engagedin exhausting emotional work, not only in terms of supporting their partnerthrough transition, but also dealing with communication within the rela-tionship and managing family and community issues. A problem that wascommon among the partners was one that features strongly in heterosexualwomen’s dissatisfactions with their male partners, the inability of the trans-gendered partners to communicate. The trans partners just did not speak,particularly about the problems of transition, and they were, as one womanexpresses it, ‘clumsy’ about feelings. One woman in Pfeff er’s study describedher partner as forgetful and messy and not being able to take care of ‘him-self ’, and said that was why she fulfi lled this role. As Pfeff er comments, ‘Thesenarratives were strikingly similar to those off ered by women partners of non-trans men’ (Pfeff er, 2010 : 175).One arduous task that the women undertook was the medical care oftheir partners as they transitioned. This included ‘emotional support, advo-cacy, bimonthly testosterone administration’ (ibid.). Moreover, Pfeff er pointsout, this work is likely to be endless since ‘transition should be considered aniterative, relational, and lifelong process’ (ibid.). The non-trans partners wereexpected to fi nd sympathetic doctors, make appointments, monitor treat-ment. In relation to the very brutal surgeries involved in transition, personalcare of the transgender partners could be very disturbing. It involved notjust twenty-four hour care for the patient after surgery, but care of seriouswounds after ‘top’ surgery, for instance. As one partner remarked, ‘I get kind ofqueasy and stuff and I remember the smell being really intense’ (Pfeff er, 2010 :). As Pfeff er puts it, the partners served as ‘unpaid and untrained personalmedical and health care advocate, therapist, assistant, and nurse’ (Pfeff er, 2010 :). They also had to arrange fi nances for the surgeries, ‘saving, raising, andcontributing funds for transition-related procedures’ (ibid.).Abusive relationshipsAnother way in which relationships that include a female-bodied transgendercan replicate heteronormative patterns is the psychological abuse and physicalviolence that are exercised by some of the transitioning partners. No researchhas specifi cally examined this problem, but Nicola Brown, while carryingout interviews with partners of transgenders that did not ask questions aboutviolence or abuse, found that fi ve of her twenty participants spontaneouslybrought up the problem (Brown, 2007 ). The types of abuse the partnersreported included manipulation, emotional and verbal abuse, name callingand demeaning put-downs. More aggravated abuse included one trans part-ner who frequently kept her partner in a state of sleep deprivation, punchingwalls, destroying her possessions and throwing objects. Controlling behaviourincluded repeated violations of agreed rules in a non-monogamous relation-ship and not being allowed to initiate sex. Two of the fi ve were manipulatedinto fi nancially supporting their transgender partner. Similar forms of abusewere perpetrated against participants in Joslin-Roher and Wheeler’s ( 2009 )study, where one partner in particular had to take on full fi nancial responsi-bility for both of them, when her transgender partner could not fi nd work.One form of coercion is quite specifi c to relationships in which thereare trans partners, and consists of the use of the victim status of transgendersto establish control. In such relationships the abusive trans partners utilise aform of blackmail, involving threats of exposing a non-compliant partner as‘transphobic’ in a similar way to the male-bodied trans partners in the pre-vious chapter. Brown found that transgender abusers used ‘trans status and/or political discourses’ against partners. Non-trans partners could be con-trolled by accusations of transphobia if they failed to behave in supportiveways, including being fi nancially supportive: ‘I spent so much time payingfor his blood work and his testosterone, which he needed and if I didn’tpay … I was a bad girlfriend, I wasn’t supportive of him, and then I became“anti-trans”’ (Brown, 2007 : 380). There is increasing evidence that accusa-tions of ‘transphobia’ can be used by female-bodied transgenders in order todiscredit their partners’ legitimate concerns and guilt-trip them into obedi-ence. A quotation on Elspeth Brown’s blog about her research into relation-ships in which one woman is trans indicates the ubiquity of the accusations. She explains that she was going through her interviews and the problemof a partner being called transphobic came up ‘yet again’. Her intervieweestates, ‘I’ve been called transphobic so many times I can’t even count’ (Brown,Elspeth, 2011 ).Women suff ered particular difficulties in recognising or protesting abusewhen in relationships with trans partners. This was because the ideology oftransgenderism had trained them to see their partners as victims so theycould not also be seen as abusive or, if they were, this could be justifi ed asan understandable result of their oppressed condition (Brown, 2007 : 377). AsNicola Brown explains,The view that transsexual partners were ‘more oppressed’ as a conse-quence of their transsexual … status … seemed to prevent participantsfrom thinking they could be abusive because it contradicted the dom-inant model of violence where the abusive partner is the person withmore social power.(ibid.)One interviewee explained that she took emotional abuse that she would nothave tolerated from a man or a woman and spent a lot of time,educating myself onhis ‘oppression’ and thinking of ‘him’ [as] sopowerless in a societal sense that there would be no way he could haveenough power to be abusive [and her partner] used his various iden-tities – trans included – to reinforce that myth for me.(ibid.)Another interviewee said that though she thought some behaviour was‘unfair’ ‘there was something about the fact that he was trans that let methink, “Okay, maybe that’s okay”’ (Brown, 2007 : 378).The abusive transgenders used their transgenderism as an excuse for theirviolence, for example an apology for violence might include a reason givensuch as ‘well, it’s because someone called me “she” today’ (Brown, 2007 :) as though that excused their violence or abusive behaviour towardstheir partner. The abusers put the blame on the victims, citing their faultssuch as not being loving enough, not being supportive enough, not beingfemme enough, and other solecisms. So, like heterosexual women in abusiverelationships, the abused partners in Brown’s study felt as if they were ‘walk-ing on egg shells’ (Brown, 2007 : 377) and were in a constant state of aware-ness. None of them reported the abuse to police, nor did they tell families orfriends; moreover, they blamed themselves for the abuse and it was not untiltheir relationships ended that they spoke of it.Another form of abuse was the denigrating of lesbians and women thatsome female-bodied transgenders engaged in. Non-trans partners were thevictims of hostile invective simply because they remained members of thedespised, subordinate female sex caste. One of Brown’s interviewees explained,‘Li also was prone to making fun of stereotypical female behaviour. He wouldcall girls fl ippant or stupid or make remarks about women’s bodies. He wassuspicious of women: women were defi nitely something other than whathe was. He constantly made distinctions between the “way women act” andthe way he acts’ (Brown, 2007 : 382). This behaviour, though distressing forpartners, is foreseeable, since the idea of ‘masculine’ gender relies on the dif-ferentiation and denigration of its opposite, ‘femininity’. As Brown observes,such behaviour may refl ect sexism in the sense of‘an identifi cation withdominant, misogynist masculinity’ or a ‘disidentifi cation process’ through‘devaluation’ of that which is female. Similarly, the trans partner is likely towant to dissociate as much as possible from a previous lesbian identity thatundermines the authenticity of her transition. Invective that denigrates les-bians can be particularly hurtful to partners who saw themselves as lesbiansin a lesbian relationship before their partner chose to change the goalposts.Elspeth Brown’s informant describes a context in which this anti-lesbianabuse occurred and how disturbing it was:I got in a giant fi ght with my ex, who’s a trans guy … and I said some-thing like, ‘Don’t you ever miss being a lesbian.’ He was so off ended, hewas like ‘I was never a lesbian’. But he said lesbian like it was just the vil-est thing … I don’t accept it. And that doesn’t make me transphobic.(Brown, Elspeth, 2011 )Straightening outNon-trans partners who understood themselves to be in lesbian relationshipsbefore their partners transitioned are harmed by being required to relin-quish their sometimes hard-won, lesbian identities and the lesbian commu-nities that have been their support, in order to identify as heterosexual atthe behest of their lovers. Brown’s research (Brown, 2009 ; 2010 ) shows non-trans partners refl ecting on and renegotiating their identities. Of the twentyparticipants in her study, twelve identifi ed as lesbians prior to the transitionof their partner, fi ve as queer and three as bisexual. After the transition oftheir partners, only four identifi ed as lesbians, twelve had changed their self-identifi cation to queer, two identifi ed as bisexual and two did not nominatean identity, referring to themselves as ‘open or fl uid’ (Brown, 2009 ). Out oftwenty participants in Pfeff er’s ( 2008 ) study of the body image of female-bodied transgenders’ partners, only seven identifi ed as either a lesbian or dyke. None of the participants in Pfeff er’s ( 2010 ) work on fi fty couples, of which per cent were in a lesbian relationship prior to FTM transition, identifi edtheir relationship as lesbian thereafter.One of Brown’s respondents explained that she thought of herself as alesbian but that she was aware that publicly she is seen as a heterosexual orbisexual woman (Brown, 2009 ). She considers herself to be in a ‘strange anduncomfortable place’ because if she objected to the way she is seen and calledherself a lesbian, she would eff ectively out her partner as transgender (Brown, : 67). She concluded that she was living in a ‘kind of no man’s land interms of identity’ (Brown, 2009 : 70). One of Pfeff er’s participants spoke ofbeing unsure about how to identify to others (Pfeff er, 2010 ). She had previ-ously identifi ed as a lesbian, but now does not know whether to identify asa lesbian or a heterosexual woman, and feels she is compromising her transpartner if she calls herself a lesbian. Identifying as a lesbian was unthinkable tosome non-trans partners as their transgender partners had started identifyingas men. Retaining their previous lesbian identities would disrupt the carefullyconstructed myth that their partners had really become ‘men’. As non-transpartners adapted to being heterosexualised by their partners’ actions theylost their communities too, feeling that they must leave the lesbian group inwhich they had found support, for instance. The confl ict between attach-ment to community and attachment to their partners caused them and theirrelationships a great deal of distress (Brown, 2009 ). Identifi cation with thelesbian community was important for the non-trans partners in Joslin-Roherand Wheeler’s ( 2009 ) study, too. Being part of a community was a way forthem to understand themselves and to be understood by others; it gave thema political ideal and interaction within the community was a way to meetothers like themselves. But, ironically, while the female-bodied transgendersoften stayed within and had a home in the lesbian community, the non-transpartners found that they had no place.Transgenderism creates a barrier between women who were once bothpart of the same lesbian community. The achievement of ‘gender’ diff erencemeans that couples may end up with no community that accepts them both,as the female-bodied transgenders create their own community, which doesnot accept non-trans partners, and the lesbian community may not accepteither party, since they have either abandoned lesbianism or changed theiridentity to straight (Cook-Daniels, 1998b : 7). A great displacement takes overfrom the sense of sisterhood and community that feminism and lesbian fem-inism seeks to create.The trauma of having to change their sexual identity from lesbian toheterosexual can be particularly distressing for those, such as Loree Cook-Daniels, who have been very involved in lesbian activism, fi ghting for rec-ognition and provision specifi cally for lesbians (Cook-Daniels,b ).Cook-Daniels was a lesbian activist from age eighteen, when she set up agay youth group and continued to organise marches and actions after hav-ing met a partner, Marcelle, who announced that she wanted to transgender.Cook-Daniels says she prevented her partner from transitioning because shewanted to preserve the lesbian identity that was so important to her. After her‘eventual decision to stop blocking Marcelle’s dream’, she abandoned her les-bian activism in favour of becoming one of the to campaign around theissues of ‘Lesbian-partners-of-FTMs’, and said she was ‘fi red’ by ‘repentancefor my sin against Marcelle’ in delaying her transition ( 1998 b: 2). Marcellelater committed suicide ( 1998 b). The change in Cook-Daniels’ priorities isa good example of the way in which transgenderism can derail lesbian andfeminist politics. She is remarkably frank about the exclusion and denigra-tion that non-trans partners received at the hands of the developing com-munity of female-bodied transgenders in the 1990s. When she attended thesecond FTM of the Americas conference, she says, she was ‘appalled at theway the partners were treated’ ( 1998 : 2). They were excluded, talked down toor ignored and seen as ‘tag-alongs’ ( 1998 b: 3). She found that, despite her longrecord of activist achievement, Marcelle’s transition ‘relegated me to a sort of“Ladies’ Auxiliary”’ (ibid.). She was accused of a number of transgressions andattacked as a lesbian: ‘I was unprepared for the anger and hatred many voicedabout Lesbians, a category of people that I apparently personifi ed’ ( 1998 b:). She had to fi ght for a place within the transgender community withoutbeing, as she put it, ‘shot at’ ( 1998 b: 8).In an article on the plight of lesbians with trans partners, Cook-Danielsquotes women speaking of their grief at losing the lesbian community, which,in some cases, they had played a key role in building (Cook-Daniels, 1998a ).One explains that she sorely misses being able to go to lesbian clubs andevents but does not feel able to, ‘if the event is for lesbians only, I don’t go… I worked for many years to create a space for lesbians to feel safe andfree to express themselves’ ( 1998 a: 4). This woman, like Cook-Daniels her-self, strove as an activist to put in place resources to alleviate discriminationand violence against lesbians, only to fi nd herself upstaged in the oppres-sion stakes. The transgender partners now required the limelight, claimingto be a more oppressed group than lesbians, and the lesbian partners werestraightened out.Body imageWhen a lesbian transgenders, it creates problems both for her own body imageand for that of her partner. The female body and biology of the trans partnerconstitute profound hazards to negotiate if the idea that she has ascendedto manhood is to be believed in against all the odds. The trans partners may menstruate, for instance, which is rather the antithesis of manhood as ordin-arily understood. One of the lesbians speaking in Cook-Daniels’ article onlesbian partners explains that, in her relationship, new language had to be cre-ated to explain this anomaly, which was described as, ‘Cognitive dissonanceweek (his term for that time of the month when he has to use “masculineprotection”)’ ( 1998 a: 5). Other partners explain that to avoid any associationwith their previous lesbianism, the trans partners forbid particular sexualpractices, diff erent in each case, that they see as specifi cally ‘lesbian’. Onedescribes this in the following way: ‘some FTMs feel using their hands is toolesbian coded, as are certain aspects of oral sex’ ( 1998 a: 5).The severe body image problems of female-bodied transgenders are a com-mon theme in accounts by both trans and non-trans partners and are charac-terised by a strong loathing of any parts of their bodies that reminded themthey were women, such as breasts, hips and body fat (Brown, 2010 ; Pfeff er, ). For example, one transgender referred to her breasts as a deform-ity, which she struck repeatedly in anger and frustration, and another usedwords such as torture and plague when referring to breasts. Menstruationwas referred to as horrifying and disgusting (Pfeff er, 2008 : 329). These prob-lems have a harmful eff ect on non-trans partners too, and one participant inPfeff er’s study said that she felt less proud of her own feminine curves as aresult of her trans partner’s denigration of the female body, and she felt that ifshe gained weight it was not pleasing to her partner (Pfeff er, 2008 : 342).Another problem for non-trans partners was that they might be requiredto feminise themselves in order to create a contrast to, and therefore bol-ster, the masculinity of their trans partner. Partners in Pfeff er’s ( 2008 ) studyreported making extra eff orts to appear feminine, for example shaving legsand armpits, growing hair longer, dressing in more feminine clothing and inpink, and acting ‘girly’ (Pfeff er, 2008 : 338). One female-bodied transgender,when recognised as a woman in public, turned on her partner and blamedher for not being feminine enough, for looking too much like a lesbian andtherefore causing suspicion that the trans partner was not really a man buta lesbian after all (Pfeff er, 2008 : 340). In this case the non-trans partner feltresentful: ‘I was really upset about it … like this was his transition and whywould I have to change who I am just so he could be happy with who he is’(ibid.). However, she said that she came to the realisation that she needed todo this for ‘him’.The transitioning caused problems for the sexual side of relationships. Somepartners found that they were aff ected by the dissatisfaction that their transpartners felt with their own female bodies, and started to question their ownattractiveness. One woman said, ‘I felt totally undesirable – utterly vacatedof any kind of ability to generate any sexual desire in my partner’ (Pfeff er, : 336). Her feeling was not helped by her trans partner’s accusation thatshe was not making herself desirable, without being able to tell her what shewas supposed to do. Trans partners could go to such lengths to alleviate theirown body dysphoria that this had a very negative impact on sexual practice.One female-bodied transgender, for instance, would not fully undress dur-ing lovemaking, in particular keeping her breasts covered, and did not allowreciprocal touching, which her partner said was ‘crazy-making for me. I stillwanted to touch him [ sic ] all the time’ (Brown, 2010 : 567).Non-trans partners have to negotiate the problem of decreasing attractionto their partners as their bodies undergo profound changes – often involvingthe extirpation of characteristics – such as breasts, curves and softness – thathad been the very foundation of eroticism and desire. Five of the twelve les-bian-identifi ed partners in Brown’s ( 2010 ) study were afraid that their FTMpartner’s physical changes would lessen their sexual desire for their partnersafter transition. They experienced distress as their partners developed a hatredfor parts of their bodies they associated with womanhood. One woman inBrown’s study said that she loved her partner’s breasts, but ‘he’ hated them,another was opposed to her lover undergoing phalloplasty and another saidshe felt it hard to be attracted to ‘him’ as he began to look more and morelike a man (Brown 2010 ). One respondent found non-monogamy to be asolution as she could continue to have sexual relations with women otherthan her transitioning partner.One quite distinct problem for sexual relations was that as the trans part-ner became more masculine this could trigger memories of sexual abuse inthe non-trans partner. Four of the partners in Brown’s ( 2010 ) study reportedhistories of sexual abuse by men. Experiencing their partner’s masculinisationbrought traumatic memories to the fore and they felt increasingly unsafe astheir partners gradually took on the appearance of the perpetrators. Theyfound that feeling facial and body hair and the smell of their partner’s sweataroused fear in them, so that they had to create signals that meant slow downor stop sexual activities in order to cope with this.Although there are some apparent benefi ts for individual women who trans-gender, the harms are considerable, in terms of not only their physical long-term health, but also what it does to their partners, to lesbian communitiesand to feminism. The tolerance and even celebration of the practice withinlesbian communities, and even within the feminist academy, is hard to under-stand. The least well-recognised harm is to feminism itself. Women’s status isadversely aff ected by the existence of transgenderism, because where oncefeminists were simply accused of wanting to be men if they expressed theiroutrage at inequality, they may now be adjured to actually become ‘men’. Transgenderism can act as a safety valve for women’s indignation. Insteadof working collectively to create social change, they can choose to changeonly themselves, though with considerable consequences for others, and canseek to escape one by one. Meanwhile, the attraction of this form of escapedepends upon women’s status remaining low, otherwise there would be noincentive for social climbing. It is important that feminists and lesbians opposethe normalisation of the transgendering of women in order to staunch thewounds that the practice is infl icting on the individual bodies of lesbians andon the lesbian body politic.The transgendering of children is one of the most troubling social harms thathas resulted from the malestreaming of transgenderism. Though this practiceis increasingly normalised through clinics devoted to transgendering childrenin major cities such as Melbourne and Toronto, there is an absence of mediaor academic criticism. I argue that its problematic nature can best be graspedthrough making links with eugenics practice. Eugenics practice employedsexual surgeries (Largent, 2008 ) and drug treatments to modify the behav-iour of the ‘unfi t’ in the early twentieth century, and family counselling inthe mid-century (Stern, 2005 ), to regulate sex and gender. Presently, childrenas young as ten years in Australia, with the connivance of the Family Court,are being put on puberty delaying drugs as a result of being diagnosed with‘gender identity disorder’, with the expectation that they will be moved ontocross-sex hormones at sixteen and receive surgery to amputate their sexualcharacteristics at eighteen (Jeff reys, 2006 ; Owens, 2011 ). Though Australia isin the forefront of this practice, other countries are catching up. In Germanyin 2009, a sixteen-year-old boy had his genitals removed to become a ‘girl’( The Telegraph , 2009 ), and in April 2011, the UK government agreed to enablean experiment administering puberty delaying drugs to children from the ageof twelve years (Alleyne, 2011 ). This practice sterilises the children. There hasbeen a surprising absence of critical feminist literature on the transgenderingof children, which this chapter seeks to remedy.The eugenic sexual surgeries and drug treatments of the past and thetransgendering of children in the present share a number of similarities,which will be examined here. The most signifi cant similarity lies in the factthat a project of social engineering lies behind both forms of practice. Bothpractices are based upon the idea that certain problematic behaviours have abiological basis and can be ‘cured’ by treatments that alter and aff ect sexualcharacteristics. In the half of the last century, a project of social engin-eering took place in Europe and North America that was directed at the control or elimination of the economic underclass, ‘morons’ – prostitutedwomen, criminals, those deemed to be ‘gypsies’, those seen as morally defi -cient, lesbians and gays, all considered to be the ‘unfi t’ – through sterilisation(Dowbiggin, 1997 ; Lucassen, 2010 ). Presently a regime of transgenderingchildren as well as adults has the eff ect of eliminating gender non-conformitythrough shoring up a correctly gendered and heterosexual state and citizenry.A similarity between these practices lies in the origin of the ideas for thesetreatments, which come in both cases from sexologists or scientists of sex,biologists, endocrinologists and psychiatrists. Another similarity lies in thetargets of the sexual surgeries, as lesbians and gays were targeted by eugeni-cists, and those with same sex sexual orientations are, in practice, a principaltarget of the sexual surgeries of transgenderism today. The practices are con-nected too in that they were both supported by persons who had an other-wise progressive agenda, such as sexologists who were often socialists, andsome feminists. This is certainly true of the practice of transgenderism today,which has been supported by many on the Left and many feminists, thoughthe issue of transgendering children has not been much remarked upon bythese constituencies as yet.In this chapter I will describe the way in which the practice of trans-gendering children has developed in the present, giving examples of howthis is taking place from Australian Family Court cases. This is followed by acomparison between traditional eugenics and the new variety in evidence inthe transgendering of children.The transgendering of childrenThe practice of transgendering children is a consequence of the increasingnormalisation of the practice of transgendering adults. There has been a cam-paign to transgender children from two constituencies, adult men who havebeen transgendered, and some sexual scientists, particularly endocrinologists.The demand for early intervention and treatment of children identifi ed as‘transgender’ has been spearheaded by organisations dedicated to the rightsof those who have been transgendered, such as the Gender Identity Researchand Education Society (GIRES) in the UK, and infl uential individual trans-gender blog activists such as Laura from Laura’s Playground (Laura, n.d.).These male-bodied transgender activists generally transitioned later in life,from their forties onwards. This meant that passing as women was difficult forthem due to their male bone structure and height. They argue that early inter-vention is vital to prevent what they see as ‘transgender’ children from experi-encing puberty and the entailed physical changes that will make transitionharder later on, and require expensive and more complex surgeries to achievea convincing simulacrum of the desired sex. An example of this campaigningwork is the ‘international symposium’ that GIRES, together with Mermaids,the support group for the transgendered, ran in 2005 to counter the signifi -cant resistance from within the medical profession to the idea of treating chil-dren. The symposium was for ‘doctors … who care for children and youngpeople experiencing gender variance’, and GIRES and Mermaids ‘remainin close contact with these professionals’ (Department of Health, 2008 ). Aprecisely similar form of campaigning to enlist the services of the medicalprofession was employed by the Erikson Foundation on behalf of adult trans-sexuals 30 years before (Billings and Urban, 1982 ). The international cam-paign spearheaded by GIRES achieved a major success with the publicationin 2009 of draft guidelines from the Endocrine Society that recommendthat children identifi ed as ‘transgender’ as young as twelve should be givenmedication to delay puberty (Endocrine Society, 2009 ). The recommenda-tions are largely based upon the experience of a clinic in the Netherlandsthat has been prescribing puberty blockers for some time to those undersixteen years. The guidelines recommend that ‘adolescents who fulfi l eligibil-ity and readiness criteria for gender reassignment initially undergo treatmentto suppress pubertal development’. They ‘suggest’ that ‘pubertal developmentof the desired, opposite sex be initiated at about the age of 16 years, using agradually increasing dose schedule of cross-sex steroids’ (Endocrine Society, : 4). They recommend referring the children for surgery when they havecompleted a ‘real life experience’ of living as the desired sex, but ‘suggest’ thatsurgery should be deferred until the child is ‘at least 18 years old’.Pressure to treat children with drugs to delay puberty is also comingfrom some of the professionals at gender identity clinics. Norman Spack, forexample, endocrinologist and co-director of the DSD (Disorders of SexualDiff erentiation) Clinic at the Boston Children’s Hospital, expresses a ratherunseemly enthusiasm for being able to perform such treatment:Yes, we remain at a crossroads, salivating at the prospect of applying theDutch protocol for pubertal suppression, yet without permission fromhealth insurers to pay for the expensive drugs or pressure from themedical and mental health communities to demand it. The frustrationlevel of parents is rising, fueled by knowledge of what could be done.(Spack, 2008 : xi)Spack knows what can be done and wants more freedom to treat children inthe way he thinks appropriate. He is one of the authors of the 2009 EndocrineSociety Guidelines that recommend puberty delaying drug treatment forchildren. Another specialist at Spack’s clinic, a ‘pediatric endocrinologist’, wascharged in September 2012 with receipt of a large amount of child pornog-raphy (Herald Staff , 2012 ). The prosecutor said the government plans to show that this man ‘appeared to have a dedicated sexual interest in children, goingback several decades. Based on those factors, we do believe the defendant isa danger to the community.’ Those who engage in transgendering childrenmay require greater oversight as to their motivations and competence.As the campaign by lobbyists and sex scientists to transgender children hasachieved increasing success, there has been an emergence of online NGOs tosupport the parents of ‘transgender’ children, and the publication of advicebooks. The practice of transgendering children is being normalised by booksfrom psychologists who make a living from identifying and treating chil-dren as ‘transgender’. One of these from the United States is a ‘handbook’,The Transgender Child , written by Stephanie Brill and Rachel Pepper, whichadvises parents on how to recognise that a child is ‘transgender’ so that theycan receive professional help (Brill and Pepper, 2008 ). Stephanie Brill, whodescribes herself as a member of the ‘butch/trans community’ (St. John, ), is a ‘gender educator’ and founder of Gender Spectrum Education andTraining (Gender Spectrum, n.d.), which off ers support to parents of ‘gendervariant’ children and off ers gender training programmes for schools. RachelPepper is described on the book jacket as a therapist who specialises in ‘trans-gender and gender variant clients’. A number of organisations set up to ser-vice the families of ‘transgender’ children dispense similar advice on theirwebsites, such as Trans Youth Family Allies (TYFA, n.d.) in the United States.A board member of TYFA, Andrea James, is the man who posted photos ofthe children of the sexologist Michael Bailey on the Internet with porno-graphic captions (Dreger, 2008). There should, perhaps, be a question markover the suitability of such men to advise on how to treat children over suchan important issue as their future health and fertility.Parents are invited to identify their children as ‘transgender’, often at veryyoung ages. Brill and Pepper tell parents that their insight into theirchild’s transgenderism will be at eighteen months:When your 18-month-old girl’s words are ‘me boy,’ or your-year-old son insists that he is a girl, and these responses don’t waveror change over the next few years, you can be pretty sure that you havea transgender child.(Brill and Pepper, 2008 : 2)Parents are advised to be watchful for such matters as whether their youngchildren select sex-appropriate ‘underpants’, i.e. the boy should not choosethose with fl owers on. The tone of these published and online resources iscoercive, as parents and professionals are told that the treatment of transgen-dering children is the only responsible way forward, that it is just, and that itmay be the only way to protect the children from self-harm and suicide.One of the authors of the handbook, Rachel Pepper, subsequently editeda collection of stories from the mothers of transgender children (Pepper (ed.), ), which represents the mothers who identify their children as trans-gender at extremely young ages as brave and progressive. In one case a motherreports that she identifi ed her boy child as a girl because, ‘by the time he wastwo, he refused to play with boys’ toys’ (Pepper, 2012 : 87). She took him tothe Tavistock Clinic at six years old in order to be told that he had ‘genderidentity disorder’. This mother calls the endocrinologist, Norman Spack, her‘saviour’. Another mother noticed something ‘diff erent’ about Alic ‘when hewas around age three or four. He saw me sewing and literally cried out, “Nomore pinafores, Mom, please!”’ (Pepper, 2012 : 109). Another mother iden-tifi ed her daughter as transgender on her birthday when she cut up herparty dress with a pair of scissors (Pepper, 2012 : 61). This represents a remark-ably pious, and callous, application of sex role restrictions by mothers, allunder the guise of allowing the children to be the ‘gender’ they really are.GIRES has been so successful in securing the support of the medical pro-fession for its preferred treatment options that it was able to play a major rolein developing the guidelines on medical care for persons seeking to be trans-gendered, which were published in a series of pamphlets by the UK NHSin 2008. The series includes one on medical care for ‘gender variant chil-dren and young people’ (Department of Health, 2008 ). This provides a usefulinsight into the ideas that medical practitioners are now advised to adopt. TheNHS pamphlet explains that gender variance in children can be identifi edby boys saying ‘they want to be girls, or that they actually are girls’ and girlswishing themselves to be or believing themselves to be boys (Departmentof Health, 2008 : 4). The pamphlet asserts that ‘gender variance’ in its ‘severe’form is ‘biologically triggered’, ‘small parts of the baby’s brain progress along adiff erent pathway from the sex of the rest of its body’ (Department of Health, : 5). In fact research to suggest that behaviours commonly associatedwith ‘gender’ diff erence are biological is very thin on the ground and likelyto be as fl awed as all forms of brain research are in proving that gender diff er-ences are inscribed in nature and not nurture (Fine, 2010 ).Like the handbooks and online resources emerging from the UnitedStates on the need to transgender children for their own good, the NHSpamphlet uses strong persuasion to pressure health practitioners to acceptthe practice, stressing the extreme distress that children they consider to be‘transgender’ experience at puberty. Treatment is justifi ed as a way to avoiddifficulties with ‘passing’ in adulthood: ‘The irreversible eff ects cause life-long disadvantage because they often make it difficult, or even impossibleto ‘pass’, that is, to look and sound completely like a person of the oppos-ite sex’ (Department of Health, 2008 : 13). The anxieties of adult men whoare transgendered are clearly revealed here, as the pamphlet states that those who are not transgendered as children ‘may be “read” on the street and con-sequently may suff er prejudice, harassment, humiliation and even violence’(Department of Health, 2008 : 13). The language of being ‘read’ is commonto the argot of men who cross-dress, and its use suggests that the concerns ofadult males who may have quite diff erent experiences and interests are beingtransferred onto children, for whom they may be entirely inappropriate.Identifying ‘transgender’ childrenChildren are diagnosed with ‘gender identity’ disorder as a result of engagingin socially unacceptable behaviour, specifi cally behaviour considered unsuitedto the child’s biological sex. As such, I argue, the transgendering of childrenshould be understood as a project of social engineering that has similaritiesto the practice of sexual surgeries that were carried out on persons seen asengaging in socially unacceptable behaviour in the previous era of eugenics.In the earlier period the problematic behaviours included chronic poverty,homosexuality and criminality. In this section I will illustrate the sociallyunacceptable ‘gender’ practices that lead to the diagnosis of a child as havinggender identity disorder. Physicians are faced with the difficulty of distin-guishing children whom they consider to be ‘genuinely’ in need of beingtransgendered from those many who, as they readily admit, are likely to haveworries about gender but do not wish to be transgendered when they areadults (Department of Health, 2008 ). The NHS pamphlet does not createconfi dence in the process by which this is accomplished:As puberty approaches, the leading clinics will make a careful assess-ment of which children are almost certain to develop as transsexualadults and which are unlikely to do so. No physical test is availablefor detecting and measuring gender variance that may develop intoadult dysphoria and transsexualism. Hence, clinicians must rely on theyoung person’s own account of his, or her feelings, or informationfrom the parents about the way the child talks and behaves and onpsychological tests.(Department of Health, 2008 : 17)The main indicator that they use, though, is likely to be the responseof the child to the physical changes of early puberty. Unfortunately, thesedays, puberty is arriving earlier and earlier for children. Precocious puberty isidentifi ed by the Boston Children’s Hospital, which treats ‘transgender’ chil-dren, as before age eight for girls and as before age nine for boys (Staff ord, ). If the logic underlying the transgendering of children is accepted, thenchildren might have to be identifi ed and treated with drugs even before theseages, as the pamphlet advises intervention early enough to suspend physicalchanges before they begin.The diagnostic criteria for ‘gender dysphoria’ in children, previouslyknown as ‘gender identity disorder in childhood’, appear in the new edition,number 5, of the US Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM) in 2013. Thecriteria are based upon traditional gender stereotypes that have been con-structed to confi ne and limit the behaviour of girls and justify their inferiorstatus in diff erent societies. Boys’ behaviour, on the other hand, is constructedto justify their superior status. Children with gender dysphoria must have ‘astrong desire to be of the other gender or an insistence that he or she is theother gender’. The indicators that they are of the ‘other gender’ are:in boys, a strong preference for cross-dressing or simulating femaleattire; in girls, a strong preference for wearing only typical masculineclothing and a strong resistance to the wearing of typical feminineclothing; a strong preference for cross-gender roles in make-believe orfantasy play; a strong preference for the toys, games, or activities typicalof the other gender; a strong preference for playmates of the other gen-der; in boys, a strong rejection of typically masculine toys, games, andactivities and a strong avoidance of rough-and-tumble play; in girls, astrong rejection of typically feminine toys, games, and activities.(Winters, 2011 )The children should also have ‘clinically signifi cant distress or impairment insocial, occupational, or other areas of functioning’. The way in which thesediagnostic criteria are applied in practice can be ascertained from the tran-scripts of the judgements made by the Family Court of Australia in caseswhere puberty delaying drugs for children were approved.Examples from AustraliaAustralia is in the forefront of transgendering children, which is carried outby order of the Family Court and is usually requested by the parents orguardians of the children. When the thirteen-year-old girl called ‘Alex’ wastransgendered through the Family Court in 2004, it was fi ve years before theEndocrine Society issued their guidelines on the practice (Family Court ofAustralia, 2004 ; Jeff reys, 2006 ). The age at which the court was prepared toauthorise the practice then started to go down. In 2008 a twelve-year-oldgirl, ‘Brodie’, was trangendered (Family Court, 2008 ). The youngest child inrelation to whom such an order was made, in April 2011, was ‘Jamie’, whowas a ten-year-old boy, and was said to have been living as a girl for threeyears (Family Court of Australia, 2011 ). In the court cases the evidence of psychiatrists, endocrinologists, social workers and parents is used to diagnosethe child as having the disorder in order to begin treatment. The case of‘Jamie’ provides a useful example of how this works. Jamie was one of twinboys of ten years and ten months of age. Agreement in the court to the trans-gendering of Jamie was straightforward because he was identifi ed as ‘a veryattractive young girl with long blonde hair’, that is he conformed really wellwith cultural stereotypes of what a girl should look like (Family Court ofAustralia, 2011 , Reasons for Judgement, 2). Jamie’s parents gave the necessaryevidence to prove that Jamie had the disorder, saying that hebegan identifying with the female gender when she (the tran-script uses female pronouns) was about 2 ½ to 3 ½ years old. She chosefemale orientated toys, began to identity with female characters ontelevision or in movies, and told her mother: ‘Mummy, I don’t want awilly, I want a vagina.’(Family Court of Australia, 2011 , Reasons for Judgement, 12)He also ‘sought the friendship of girls’ (Family Court of Australia, 2011 ,Reasons for Judgement, 14). According to his mother the ‘turning point’ waswhen Jamie wanted to wear a ‘ball gown’ on an outing to see Phantom of theOpera (Family Court of Australia, 2011 , Reasons for Judgement, 17). Jamiewas taken to see a psychiatrist in October, 2007 when he was seven yearsold, and was diagnosed as having gender identity disorder in December ofthat year.The court experts adjudicate as to whether the child in the case beforethem is performing gender in an appropriate way. Thus evidence for Jamie’sfeminine gender was gleaned from the fact that he ‘had the ambition to bea “female pop singing star” and performed for her male psychiatrist in a“very feminine and creative way”’ (Family Court of Australia, 2011 : 42). Oneexpert explained that Jamie looked ‘convincingly female in every way’, des-pite the fact that he ‘had typical male genitalia with a normal penis and testes.Her chromosomes were those of a typical male’ (Family Court of Australia, : 50). The arguments used as moral pressure to promote the transgender-ing of children that we have seen from GIRES are produced in the court.Dr C says that there was no time to lose in delaying Jamie’s puberty in orderto ‘prevent the psychological distress that Jamie would experience if malepuberty were to progress’ (Family Court of Australia, 2011 : 54). Jamie was indanger, Dr C said, of ‘an increased likelihood of major mental disorder andbehavioural difficulties, including severe depression and anxiety disorders andrisk of self-harm’ (Family Court of Australia, 2011 : 63).When cases involving the transgendering of girls are heard at the FamilyCourt the diagnostic criteria change to refl ect stereotypes of how boysshould behave. In the case of twelve-year-old ‘Brodie’, she is described by hermother as always behaving ina way that I would describe as like a boy and she likes to dress like aboy and when we go shopping for clothes, (Brodie) will always look topurchase clothes from the body [ sic ] section of the particular store …She has worn boy’s underwear since she was about six years’ old.(Family Court of Australia, 2008 : 55)Choice of underwear seems to be important as it is mentioned in a num-ber of sources that provide advice on identifying children who should betransgendered. In the case of Brodie, as in that of ‘Alex’ who was transgen-dered in 2004, a main reason given for hastening treatment was the fact thatthese girls were very angry (Jeff reys, 2006 ). In Brodie’s case she was veryaggressive and bullied her younger sister. The reason for the anger of thechildren in the Family Court cases was not pursued, though it was com-monly suggested that treatment for transgenderism would alleviate its worstexcesses. Transgendering children, then, can function as a form of behaviourmanagement.The only clinic that treats ‘transgender’ children in Australia is at the RoyalChildren’s Hospital in Melbourne, so it does seem likely that the childrenin the above cases were processed there. In a study of the eff ectiveness of itstreatment, the clinic has announced that the numbers approaching it haveincreased ‘eightfold’ between 2003 when it was set up and 2011, meaningfrom one child per year to eight children per year (Hewitt et al ., 2012 ). Theincrease is explained as arising from a greater awareness of the treatment pos-sibilities – ‘improved awareness of a medical service for children with GID’ –rather than to a real increase in the incidence of the problem. The increase isindeed likely to be a result of greater publicity about the phenomenon andits treatment. But rather than this enabling more children possessed of someessential and always existing problem to come forward, the publicity couldcreate ‘transgender’ children by enabling parents to identify quite ordinarybehaviour in young children as disordered, and create this understanding intheir off spring. The clinic noted that in all its patients gender dysphoria wasseen at about three years of age, though the children did not present for treat-ment until a ‘mean age’ of ten years old.Perhaps surprisingly, considering the quite extreme forms of hormonaland surgical treatment of children and teenagers taking place in the present,there is an absence of criticism of the transgendering of children in socialscience literature and from feminist scholars. This is likely to be the result ofthe fact that critical analysis of the practice of transgenderism in general hasdeclined to the point of invisibility in the last two decades. Absence of critical literature on transgenderismThough there are important connections between the early twentieth-cen-tury eugenics practice of carrying out sexual surgeries and sterilisation ofthe unfi t for purposes of social control and social engineering, and the trans-gendering of adults and children in the late twentieth and early twenty-fi rstcenturies, these practices have not been linked together in scholarly litera-ture. Indeed there is an absence of critical literature in politics and the socialsciences today on transgenderism. In relation to the transgendering of chil-dren, critical work in the social sciences, with a few exceptions (Gottschalk, ; Jeff reys, 2006 ), is remarkably absent. The increasing quantity of socialscience literature on the ‘transgender’ child is not critical, or analytical. Itconsists of handbooks for social workers, for parents (Brill and Pepper, 2008 ;Mallon, 2009 ) and for teachers. All of this literature speaks of ‘affirming’ the‘transgender’ child and the positive tone of the materials can be adducedfrom the titles of two examples, ‘Working with Transgender Children andTheir Classmates in Pre-Adolescence: Just Be Supportive’ (Luecke, 2011 ),and ‘Trans-Friendly Pre-School’ (Dykstra, 2005 ). Unfortunately, parents andprofessionals working with children these days are likely to believe that gen-der diff erence is biological rather than socially constructed.Despite the absence of critical work in relation to the practice of trans-genderism in the social sciences literature, there is an emerging critique inthe clinical literature. The psychologists Susan Langer and James Martin, forinstance, argue that the diagnosis of gender identity disorder in childhood‘serves primarily to advance a political or social agenda’ (Langer and Martin, : 15), and the ‘mental health community’ should take a ‘strong standagainst the continuation of GIDC as a sanctioned diagnostic category’ (Langerand Martin, 2004 : 19). There are other mental health professionals criticisingthe diagnosis of gender identity disorder in childhood and adulthood, particu-larly for the way that it facilitates the social control of homosexuality (Bower, ; Wilson et al ., 2002 ). However, neither the earlier critical literature, northat which is beginning to emerge from mental health professionals in thepresent, connects transgenderism in any form to the history of eugenics. Inthe next section I will identify some connections between the transgenderingof children and eugenics practice that may help inform the development of amore critical social science literature.Connections between transgenderism andeugenics practiceThere is a burgeoning literature on eugenics campaigns and practices fromsocial historians and historians of science, which provides evidence of ideasand practices that are echoed in the contemporary practice of transgender-ism. This literature describes how the eugenics movement developed in theUnited States (Largent, 2008 ; Reilly, 1991 ) and in Europe (Lucassen, 2010 )and became centred on the practice of sterilisation. Some point out that thispractice, though it was mostly brought to an end in the 1970s, lingers on,particularly in relation to teenage girls who are considered at risk of preg-nancy because they are vulnerable to sexual predation (Largent, 2008 ). Thisliterature makes few connections with the contemporary practice of trans-gendering children despite the fact that this, like the sterilisation of the unfi t,is carried out by sexual scientists for the purpose of social engineering.The ideological foundations of eugenics emerged from the work of FrancisGalton, cousin of Charles Darwin (Largent, 2008 ). They were adopted andpromoted by biologists, sexologists and psychiatrists who were politicallyleftwing such as J.B.S. Haldane and Henry Havelock Ellis in the UK, andAuguste Forel in Switzerland (Lucassen, 2010 ). It is relevant that all of thesemen saw themselves as socialists because, in the twenty-century, the prac-tice of transgendering men, women and children has been adopted as an issueof positive human rights by progressive people such as the Left theorist JudithButler, rather than as a practice that violates rights (Butler, 2004 ). The Leftof the late nineteenth and early twentieth century was generally supportiveof eugenic ideas, as exemplifi ed by Sydney and Beatrice Webb of the FabianSociety in the UK (Lucassen, 2010 ). In Sweden social engineering throughthe sterilisation of the unfi t was adopted enthusiastically by the Myrdals, soci-ologists associated with the founding of the Swedish welfare state. Legislationto enable the sterilisation of the unfi t was adopted in Sweden in the 1920sand from then until the 1970s, 63,000 persons were sterilised, 90 per cent ofthem women. Eugenics was adopted on the Left as a way to create a better‘race’, meaning, at that time, ‘nation’.Importantly, eugenicist ideas, including sterilisation of the unfi t, wereadopted by many feminists before the Second World War. The US birthcontrol campaigner Margaret Sanger was one of them. In 1932 she soughtto explain how eugenics could lead to an end to war through preventingoverpopulation, particularly of the unfi t, which she considered an import-ant cause (Sanger, 1932 ). These measures included immigration policies toprevent entry of the unfi t, segregation of the unfi t so that they could notreproduce, and sterilisation. Immigration controls, she said, should keep out‘feebleminded, idiots, morons, insane, syphilitic, epileptic, criminal, profes-sional prostitutes, and others’ and a ‘stern and rigid policy of sterilization andsegregation’ should be applied to those who might have ‘tainted progeny’.People should, she considered, be given the choice of segregation or steril-isation. The British birth control campaigner, Marie Stopes, too was inspiredby eugenicist ideas and concerned to limit the breeding of persons who were not of sufficient ‘quality’. She opined in a BBC interview as late as 1957, ‘Weare breeding rubbish’ (quoted in Garrett, 2007 : xlii). The extent to whichfeminists embraced eugenics before the Second World War in the UK is atopic of controversy among historians. There is general agreement that femi-nists tended to include eugenic language in their theory and practice in orderto make themselves more persuasive and easily understood, but their degreeof commitment is another matter (Bland, 1995 ; Makepeace, 2009 ). However,the absence of criticism, or active support, of the practice of transgenderingadults and children, by those who see themselves as progressive or even fem-inist in the present, should not surprise, as there is a history of such supportfor similar projects in the earlier period.Sexual surgeriesEugenics practice was centred on the performance of sexual surgeries onthose considered unfi t, and the practice of sterilisation of the unfi t in theUSA illustrates its scope and acceptability. Two-thirds of the states in theUnited States passed compulsory sterilisation laws between 1907 and (Largent, 2008 : 65). Sterilisation was not just carried out for eugenic pur-poses, i.e. to prevent reproduction of defective children, but to punish, and fortherapeutic purposes such as changing unacceptable behaviour. The sexualsurgeries carried out on those considered unfi t included complete castrationwith removal of the testes, as well as the less invasive practice of sterilisationthrough vasectomy. Largent explains that, in the United States, amputationof the testes and scrotum was used from the late nineteenth century up tothe 1930s to ‘treat, punish or control hundreds of rapists, child molesters,and men who engaged in activities associated with homosexuality’ (Largent, : 5). He calls this practice ‘mutilation’, and it was mostly practised onmen who were in mental hospitals and prisons. He explains that the reasonsgiven changed over time, going from ‘punitive and eugenic’ to ‘therapeuticand prophylactic’ over four decades. The psychiatrists involved in sexual sur-geries regularly used them as a ‘cure’ for women’s unacceptable behaviour.At the end of the nineteenth century in the United States, G. Alder Blumerrecommended ‘gynaecologic surgery’ for women patients (Dowbiggin, 1997 :). He considered that ‘insanity was a genital refl ex’, an idea that was wide-spread from 1850–1900 and led to the removal of women’s wombs and ovar-ies. In particular he recommended such surgery for women who were loudand vulgar in their language.One signifi cant connection between the heyday of eugenics and the trans-gendering of children today is that lesbians and gay men form a constituencythat is targeted by both practices. The grim details of the control and pun-ishment of lesbians and gay men by the scientists of sex throughout mostof the twentieth century was laid out in the earliest, gay liberation-inspired,history of lesbians and gay men in the United States, Jonathan Katz’s GayAmerican History ( 1976 ). Katz writes that, ‘Lesbians and Gay men have longbeen subjected to a varied, often horrifying list of “cures” at the hands ofpsychiatric-psychological professionals, treatments usually aimed at asexu-alization or heterosexual reorientation’ (Katz, 1976 : 197). These treatments,which went on well into the second half of the twentieth century, includedsurgeries such as castration, hysterectomy and vasectomy. Women were sub-jected in the nineteenth century to surgical removal of the ovaries and of theclitoris, a treatment designed as a ‘cure’ for various forms of what was calledfemale ‘erotomania’ and included lesbianism. Lobotomy was performed as lateas the 1950s. A range of drug therapies were also used such as the adminis-tration of hormones, LSD, sexual stimulants and sexual depressants, alongsideother treatments such as hypnosis and electric and chemical shock treatment,and aversion therapy (ibid.). Katz comments that the homosexual victims ofsexual surgeries were sometimes ‘acquiescent’, and sought out treatment, asthose requesting to be transgendered do today. Indeed involuntariness is by nomeans a necessary element in eugenics practices generally. Katz explains thatthe case histories he examined in his research showed:Numbers of these histories concern guilt-ridden, self-hating homo-sexuals, who have so internalized society’s condemnation that they seekout cruel forms of treatment as punishment; they play what can onlybe termed a masochistic game, in which the doctor is assigned, andaccepts, a truly sadistic (as well as remunerative) role.(Katz, 1976 : 200)Katz does not include the transgendering of homosexual men and lesbianswithin these abusive medical treatments, but Bernice Hausman, in her fem-inist critique of transgenderism, does (Hausman, 1995 ). Hausman argues thatthe treatment of intersexuality and transsexuality in the mid-twentieth cen-tury was motivated to a large extent by the desire to reduce the possibility ofhomosexuality and to create heterosexual citizens.Despite the similarity between the control of homosexuality in eugenicspractice and in transgenderism, this is seldom discussed in the social scienceliterature today. The fact that many of the men and most of the womenwho seek to transition are homosexual before treatment is, nonetheless, anopen secret. Though males seeking to be transgendered may be attracted towomen or other men, it is recognised that the women are generally lesbiansbefore they are diagnosed as ‘transgender’: ‘Virtually all females with gen-der identity disorder will receive the same specifi er – Sexually Attracted toFemale – although there are exceptional cases involving females who are sexually Attracted to Males’ (Mental Health Today, n.d.). Professionals involvedin treating gender identity disorder in childhood are aware that three-quarters of the boys referred for diagnosis by their parents will be homosexualor bisexual when they reach adulthood (ibid.). The lawyer and transgenderrights activist, Shannon Minter, has provided a compilation of quotationsfrom sexologists and those involved in the creation and implementation ofthe diagnosis of gender identity that is designed to make evident their desireto prevent the development of homosexuality (Minter, 1999 ). Minter argues‘If GID in children was not strongly associated with homosexuality in adult-hood’, it is unlikely that cross-gender behaviours in children ‘would have beendesignated psychiatric disorders or become the focus of an entire clinical fi elddevoted to … “correcting” cross-gender behaviors’ (Minter, 1999 : 27).The interest of eugenicists in the control and punishment of homosexual-ity was a part of their interest in the creation of properly gendered and sexedfamilies and children, an aspect of the movement that relates clearly to thetransgendering of children that takes place today. The historian of the USeugenics movement, Alexandra Stern, explains how the eugenics movementshifted focus after the Second World War to concentrate on making familiesconform to its idea of appropriate gender roles (Stern, 2005 ). Stern explainsthat in the 1950s there was less enthusiasm for the more familiar practicesof eugenics that were stigmatised by association with Nazism, such as steril-isation, though, as she says, these by no means came to an end, and the lawsstayed on the books. Instead eugenicists gravitated towards what was called‘positive’ eugenics, concentrating on population control and ‘often began tolocate the marrow of human diff erentiation not in racial distinctions … butin sex and gender’, such that ‘the racism of the 1920s was rearticulated intothe sexism of the 1950s’ (Stern, 2005 : 154). The American Institute of FamilyRelations (AIFR), which was a main motor of eugenic population policy inthe 1950s, and its director, Paul Popenoe, promoted a ‘family-centric eugen-ics that demanded sex and gender uniformity’ and promoted the idea that themale/female distinction was the greatest that could exist between two humanbeings. It was based on evolution, nature and genetics (Stern, 2005 : 155).When clients were assessed for counselling by the AIFR, the step was‘gauging the degree to which their gender identity and comportment cor-responded to their anatomical sex’ (Stern, 2005 : 167). They were then treatedon the basis of ideas emanating at that time from ‘psychiatry, psychometrics,endocrinology and sex research’ (Stern, 2005 : 180). This form of eugenicspractice is exemplifi ed in the way in which sexologists in this period devel-oped ideas of ‘gender’ and ‘gender identity’ and used them in their approachto children they identifi ed as intersex, and in their treatment of transgender-ism, a practice that continues today (Hausman, 1995 ; Meyerowitz, 2002 ). Theavoidance of homosexuality and the construction of robustly heterosexual,and gendered, families, children and adults motivated the sexologists of theperiod.The continuation of this branch of eugenics throws into question theextent to which the eugenics movement has gone into retreat. Though theacceptability of sterilising some constituencies of the ‘unfi t’ has lessened,sterilisation and sexual surgeries on children identifi ed as transgender is anincreasing trend, as this chapter seeks to show. Largent ( 2008 ) identifi es whathe sees as the fi nal death of the American eugenics movement as taking placein the 1980s. It took decades from the 1930s onwards, he explains, to bringit to an end. Opposition to sterilisation of the unfi t came from civil rightsorganisations, and movements ‘focusing on race, gender, sexual orientation,class, and physical and mental disabilities’ as well as those advocating for therights of prisoners and mental health patients (Largent, 2008 : 140). However,the practice of sterilising children with intellectual disabilities continues inmany countries, including the United States. Researchers in Australia foundthat between 1992 and 1997 there were around 200 sterilisations of younggirls performed in Australian hospitals every year (Brady and Grover, 1997 ).The practice is strongly opposed by disability rights’ groups such as WomenWith Disabilities Australia (WWDA, 2007 ).A groundswell of human rights activism against coerced sterilisation ofwomen as a violation of women’s reproductive rights is now developing,which uses concepts that could also be applied to the sterilisation of chil-dren identifi ed as transgender. The Centre for Reproductive Rights in NewYork, for instance, considers that coerced sterilisation, that is without fulland unpressured consent, should be considered ‘cruel, inhumane or degrad-ing treatment or punishment’ (Center for Reproductive Rights, 2010 ). Theyargue that ‘Experts recognize that the permanent deprivation of one’s repro-ductive capacity without informed consent generally results in psychologicaltrauma, including depression and grief ’ (Center for Reproductive Rights, : 20). The Center points out that the Human Rights Council has statedthat coercive sterilisation violates the right to be free from ‘torture and CIDT(cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment), as provided for under the ICCPR(International Convention on Cultural and Political Rights)’ (Center forReproductive Rights, 2010 : 20). Coercive sterilisation is recognised by thecommittee that oversees the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms ofDiscrimination Against Women (CEDAW), the Centre states, as infringingthe ‘rights to human dignity and physical and mental integrity’ (Center forReproductive Rights, 2010 : 20). In relation to children who are transgen-dered, the question arises of the extent to which they can be seen as unco-erced, considering that their parents, the medical profession, and the courtsare advocating this treatment for them, and they are told that it will alleviatetheir mental distress. Sterilisation of transgendered children and otherlong-term adverse health effectsThe eff ects of the drug treatment and sexual surgeries that constitute thetransgendering of children are such as to harm their reproductive rights, aswell as their bodily integrity and future health, and can therefore be seen as aparticularly harmful form of the abuse of children. There are some diff erencesbetween the sterilisation that forms part of the practice of transgenderingchildren today and the sexual surgeries of the earlier eugenic period. Eugenicsexual surgeries were regularly aimed at sterilisation, rather than having ster-ilisation as a side eff ect. But they had other aims too, such as preventing mas-turbation or criminal behaviour, which resemble the aims of transgenderismtoday of eliminating unacceptable behaviour, in this case gender non-con-formity. Also, in the earlier period, sterilisation was usually non-consensual,whereas the sterilisation carried out as part of treatment for gender identitydisorder today is usually seen as an unfortunate side eff ect of a wanted pro-cess. But it should be remembered that homosexual males, in particular, didseek out the sexual surgeries that formed a part of eugenic practice.Treatment with puberty delaying drugs leads to sterilisation if it is fol-lowed with the administration of cross-sex hormones at sixteen years, as theBrill and Pepper handbook on ‘transgender’ children ( 2008 ) explains: ‘thechoice to progress from GnRH inhibitors to estrogen without fully experi-encing male puberty should be viewed as giving up one’s fertility, and thefamily and child should be counseled accordingly’ (Brill and Pepper, 2008 :). For girls, sterilisation is the outcome too because ‘eggs do not matureuntil the body goes through puberty’ (ibid.). The issue of fertility, the hand-book asserts, may bother parents more than the ‘teens’, because the latter maythink short term and not be able to contemplate much more than gettingtransgendered in the present (Brill and Pepper, 2008 : 220). The handbookspeaks of other serious eff ects of the transgender treatment, such as that birthdefects may occur in children born to ‘transmen (female-bodied transgen-ders) taking testosterone prior to pregnancy’ (Brill and Pepper, 2008 : 219).It also warns that genital surgery can lead to the absence of sexual feeling,and comments that young people may not understand the importance ofthis (Brill and Pepper, 2008 : 220). But, the handbook advises, ‘teens’ can havesexual surgeries such as the removal of testes or breast removal at any age, notnecessarily eighteen, so long as their parents and a surgeon are willing (ibid.).This does seem to contradict the warnings that accompany this advice, aboutthe difficulty ‘teens’ may have in understanding the implications of such sur-geries for fertility and sexual pleasure.The issue of sterilisation was addressed by the Australian Family Courtin the cases involving the treatment of ‘Alex’, ‘Brodie’ and ‘Jamie’. In eachcase it was suggested that the child had sufficient understanding to make adecision that could lead to sterilisation, and where they may not fully under-stand, their parents could make such a decision for them. The judgement inthe case involving ten-year-old ‘Jamie’ explains that he understands he willbecome sterile, and does this with an interesting contradiction of pronounsand biological sex: ‘Jamie is aware that subsequent treatment with femalehormones, when she is older, may then aff ect her capacity for sperm gen-eration’ (Family Court of Australia, 2011 : 92). But because Jamie ‘does nothave the level of maturity to be responsible for decisions of such gravity’ theparents are given the ‘responsibility to make such decisions in consultationwith Jamie’.Children are also quite unlikely to be able to give informed consent touse of the harmful drugs involved in transgender ‘treatment’. The drug mostcommonly used to delay puberty in children is Lupron, a drug approvedfor the treatment of prostate cancer but commonly used in IVF treatmentand to treat endometriosis in women. There is increasing concern amongwomen’s health activists about the serious side eff ects of this drug, with per-haps the most serious in relation to children being loss of bone density. Inone study researchers found that women lost as much as 7.3 per cent of theirbone density during treatment (Flin, 2008 ). The drug also causes birth defectsand is contraindicated when there is a possibility of pregnancy. Side eff ectsreported to the US Food and Drug Administration by thousands of patientsinclude: tingling, itching, headache and migraine, dizziness, severe joint pain,difficulty breathing, chest pain, nausea, depression, emotional instability, dim-ness of vision, fainting, weakness, amnesia, hypertension, muscular pain, bonepain, nausea/vomiting, asthma, abdominal pain, insomnia, chronic enlarge-ment of the thyroid, liver function abnormality, vision abnormality, anxietyand others (Flin, 2008 ). Usage of this drug for delaying puberty in childrenis ‘off label’, meaning that it has not been approved for this purpose andis a hazardous and experimental practice. It is particularly problematic touse such a potentially harmful drug to treat the bodies of children who areentirely healthy, and whose only perceived fl aw is that they are deemed tohave socially unacceptable behaviour.A particularly serious eff ect of transgendering children is the distress theyare likely to suff er when they change their minds. A British case of a boy whowas a poster child for the practice demonstrates the harms. Bradley Coopercame out as a gay man in 2012, two months before the amputation of hispenis. He was celebrated as the youngest British ‘sex change patient’ when hewas put on hormones at sixteen, and the National Health Service agreed topay for the £10,000 amputation surgery that he would have once he reachedeighteen (Schlesinger, 2010 ). Bradley appeared as ‘Ria’ on chat shows andhad gained a certain renown, before, at 18 years old, he changed his mind. The young hairdresser said that he started to wear women’s clothes at twelvewhen he ‘would borrow his mother’s lipstick and wear clothes belonging tohis three sisters’. After less than a year of living full-time as a woman Bradleydecided to de-transition as a result of severe mental distress. He cancelledSRS and stopped taking hormones, saying that ‘she has found the changesoverwhelming and that they have made her deeply unhappy’ (ibid.). Bradleyhad received a thorough psychological assessment before starting his tran-sition, but nonetheless tried to commit suicide twice during the precedingyear, attributing this to the mood swings associated with hormone treatmentand distress ‘about how alone I am, and how my decision has alienated myfamily’ (Winter, 2012 ). Bradley became so lonely, he said, that he even enteredprostitution for the company. At the time of his decision to de-transition, hewas jobless and homeless, sleeping on friends’ fl oors. Bradley hopes to fi ndit easier to have relationships as a gay man: ‘She believes she will have betterluck in love as a ‘trendy’ gay man’ (ibid.). Cooper’s case makes it clear that thepsychiatrists cannot know if they are dealing with a genuinely ‘transgender’child, and the very serious harms that he suff ered should serve to throwdoubt on the edifi ce of ‘gender dysphoria’.In the twenty-century, decades after sexual surgeries on the ‘unfi t’ foreugenic, punishment and therapeutic reasons were mostly abandoned, a simi-lar practice is increasingly being carried out on children who are consideredto be innately ‘transgender’ because they are disobeying culturally acceptablegender roles. A form of social engineering to force children to conform torigid gender categories is taking place. The history of sexual surgeries needsto be connected with this contemporary practice in order to cast a morecritical light on what is happening today. Ian Dowbiggin, historian of NorthAmerican eugenics, writes about the way the medical profession adopted thepractice of sterilising the unfi t in a fashion that could equally be applied tothe adoption of the transgendering of children:It is a story of human fallibility, of human beings who, when faced withthe daunting challenge of caring for emotionally and mentally disabledpeople, resorted to extreme theories and practices. Most of these menand women were convinced they were absolutely right, even whenthey might have known better.(Dowbiggin, 1997 : x)Today’s transgendering of children is similar to the earlier history of sex-ual surgeries in that progressive people, including many feminists, feel thatthis is a reasonable practice, and have not yet begun to criticise it. Feministresearch and theory needs to recover the ability to criticise medicine andpsychiatry and the way that the scientists of sex treat those who fail to con-form to society’s norms, if the transgendering of children is to be eff ectivelychallenged.Transgender activists have been remarkably successful in a short time in theircampaign to achieve gender ‘rights’, an aim that enshrines the protection of‘gender’ in the law. As the male-bodied transgender activist Mara Keislingputs it, ‘there’s never been a social justice movement that has moved this fast… Things are zooming’ (Keisling, 2008 : 4). This chapter will examine theorigins of the campaign for gender rights, and the implications of its suc-cess. There is no scope here for a detailed examination of how the law haschanged in diff erent countries; rather, the chapter eff ects a critical examin-ation of what legal recognition of rights to ‘gender’ means for women in gen-eral. The ambitions of transgender activists were set out in 1995 in the UnitedStates in the International Bill of Transgender Rights (Frye, 2001 ). This wasnot a document that originated in any legislature or had any legal weight,but rather a wish list created by a group of transgender activists at a meeting,and at the time might well have seemed too outlandish to be taken seriouslyby lawmakers. But its precepts do now form the way in which gender rightshave been incorporated into domestic law in many states, and this makes itworthy of careful consideration. It demanded the right to express the ‘genderidentity’ of choice in whatever way the exponent desired, particularly in anyspaces previously reserved for women. Since then, equality and human rightslegislation has been updated and created in states across the Western worldthat incorporates the ‘right’ to express ‘gender identity’. As a result, gender,which consists of traditional stereotypes of appropriate behaviour for menand women that regulate male domination and women’s subordination, hasbecome a matter of state.Women’s and feminist groups are not invited to consult on such legalchanges, as if they would have nothing relevant to say despite the fact that menmay, under such legislation, gain the right to be recognised in law as ‘women’.Women are the ‘absent referent’ (Adams, 1990 ), not officially referred to, eventhough it is ‘women’ that the men who wish to express their ‘gender rights’seek to personate. There is no suggestion in legislation on the right to genderidentity that women will be included in, or advantaged by, the developments.Rather, in an increasingly vigorous feminist challenge, critics argue that suchlegislation creates two singular difficulties for women’s interests (Brennan andHungerford, 2011 ). It removes the possibility of women-only spaces, and itpromotes gender stereotypes that have long been recognised by feminist the-orists as the basic organising mechanism of male domination (MacKinnon, ; Jeff reys, 2005 ).The creation of the right to ‘gender identity’ creates a ‘clash of rights’ inwhich the rights demanded by one group of people can substantially endan-ger the rights of another group (Sniderman et al ., 1997 ). In a clash of rights,some adjudication has to be made as to whether the group involved in therights demand that compromises the rights of another group can be accom-modated in human rights norms. An example of the clash of rights is thatof campaigners for gay marriage against promoters of the right to religion(Masci, 2009 ). This kind of clash is about ideologies, wherein the success ofthe rights demand of one group would restrict the rights sought by another,in this case to marriage and ‘family life’. However, in the case of the cam-paign for the right to gender identity, the challenge is even more problem-atic and remarkable. The main demanders are from the sex caste of men, thedominant caste whose members are responsible for the violation of women’srights to live, for example, free from violence and the threat of death, to free-dom of movement and expression, to freedom from discrimination (Romito, ). Moreover, the demanders in this instance do not just claim that theyare disadvantaged in their own right, but that they actually are physicallymembers of the female sex caste, women, as in the demand by male-bodiedtransgenders that they should be able to enter spaces, such as toilets, set asidefor women.The wish list that constitutes the International Bill of Gender Rights(1995) was created by male-bodied persons in the United States who hadno experience of being reared in, or treated as, members of the female sexcaste, and their biographies reveal them to be unremarkably masculine men.They are men who chose to personate women with various degrees of ser-iousness as adults. The man who, according to his website, ‘authored’ the ori-ginal Bill of Gender Rights in 1990, which became the International Bill ofGender Rights, is JoAnn Roberts, a man whose personation of women isonly occasional. Roberts does not claim to be a woman, but a cross-dresser:‘I’m a crossdresser, divorced and remarried with two adult children’ (Roberts, ), who organises an event for cross-dressers called Beauty and the Beach,‘Crossdresser’s Getaway Weekend’ (ibid.).Another signifi cant fi gure in creating the fi nal document was Phyllis Frye,who is very proud of having been a robust and red-blooded, masculine man.In a journal article about the Bill, Frye seeks to establish his credentials ofhaving been a most successful and truly manly man before he decided to per-sonate a woman. While, as he puts it ‘trying to be a man’ he wasan Eagle Scout, holder of the God & Country Award, Senior Patrol Leader,Brotherhood member of the Order of the Arrow, and a Junior AssistantScoutmaster. At Thomas Jeff erson High School in San Antonio, I was inA Capella Choir, Yearbook Staff , Senior Play, lettered twice on the Rifl eTeam, was ROTC Commander, and was an ‘A’ student. At Texas A&MUniversity, I was in the Corps of Cadets, Singing Cadets, and completeda B.S. in Civil Engineering and an M.S. in Mechanical Engineeringwhile on four scholarships and one grant. I am a veteran and was hon-orably discharged as a 1st Lieutenant, U.S. Army in 1972. I obtained, andstill retain, a Texas Professional Engineering License in 1975.(Frye, 2000 : 133)Women are quite unlikely to have such a pedigree, but Frye says that he is awoman. He explains,As evident from the above accomplishments, I did not become awoman because I could not cut it as a man. I was very successful as aman, but it did not fi t my unshakable in-the-gut self-image of who Ireally was.(ibid.)He is a lawyer who has ‘been legally married to the same woman for twenty-eight years’ and has ‘a grown child by a previous marriage’ (ibid.). In 1992, hefounded the International Conference on Transgender Law and EmploymentPolicy (ICTLEP), which drew up the Bill of Gender Rights. He was awardedthe ‘Creator of Change’ Award from the National Gay and Lesbian TaskForce (1995) and the Virginia Prince Lifetime Contribution Award, namedafter the famous cross-dresser, from the International Foundation for GenderEducation (1999). Men who promote their rights to ‘gender identity’ fre-quently imagine womanhood from an unimpeachably masculine position,such as careers of military heroism (Tur, 2013 ). The desire of men to trans-gender, such accounts suggest, can be understood as an aspect of deeplyconservative and hypermasculine behaviour, rather than demonstrating anycommonality with women. It is from such roots, rather than any progressivefoundation, that the ‘right’ to gender emerged.Without seeking the advice of women, whose stereotypical form thesemen seek to imitate, Roberts and Frye produced the grandly titled International Bill of Gender Rights. An examination of these ‘rights’ showsthat they confl ict with women’s experience. The right that the Bill pro-claims is that ‘all human beings have the right to defi ne their own genderidentity regardless of chromosomal sex, genitalia, assigned birth sex, or initialgender role’ (Frye, 2000 : 212). In fact, women do not ‘defi ne’ their ‘gen-der identity’ and ‘gender identity’ has very little to do with being a woman.Women do not suff er discrimination on the grounds of their ‘identity’, an‘unshakable in-the-gut-self-image’ as Frye describes this, but on the groundsof being of the female sex.The second right in the Bill is ‘The Right to Free Expression of GenderIdentity’ (ibid.). This seems to mean the right of the male progenitors of thedocument to wear clothing more usually assigned to women. For women,stereotypical women’s clothing is not a right of expression, but enforced,through cultural expectations, legal systems, street harassment, the infl uenceof the sex industry, and workplace and school requirements (Jeff reys, 2005 ).Another right that these men demand is that of entering spaces set aside byor for women, ‘The Right of Access to Gendered Space and Participation inGendered Activity’ (Frye, 2000 : 213). Women-only spaces are either set asideon the grounds that women need the safety and security of places where menare not present, or on the grounds that women as a subordinate group needto be able to meet and organise without members of the ruling group pre-sent. Until recently, equal opportunity laws have sought to accommodate thisunderstanding by saying that, in some situations, women may indeed excludemen from services and events. In charters of rights and legislation on equality,women are regularly aff orded exemptions from the need to not discriminateon the grounds that as a vulnerable group, albeit a majority one, they mayneed to meet in women-only groups and require spaces such as women-onlytoilets (Victorian Equal Opportunity and Human Rights Commission, n.d.).This shows recognition of women as a group that needs special treatment.Unfortunately, the demands initiated by male-bodied transgenders and menwho cross-dress, because they claim to be ‘women’ and not men, aim to over-turn this recognised exemption for the protection of women’s spaces. Theother ‘rights’ in the Bill include ‘The Right to Control and Change One’sOwn Body’, ‘cosmetically, chemically, or surgically’, and the right to accessmedical treatment to achieve this. Cosmetic surgery has not been understoodby feminists to be an issue of women’s rights, but as problematic, and based inwomen’s subordinate position (Haiken, 1997 ; Sullivan, Deborah A, 2001 ).Gender rights in international lawThe International Bill of Gender Rights did not immediately lead to anygains by transgender lobbyists in relation to international law, but the lan-guage and concepts it expresses were increasingly taken up in campaigns tochange domestic law in Western countries in the succeeding decades. Beforethe move to ‘gender’, domestic laws on what were understood as the rights of‘transsexuals’ used the language of sex, not gender, and required persons whowished to change their sex to undertake surgery to become infertile beforethey could change their status on documents such as their birth certifi cate.This changed in the 2000s as the notion of ‘transsexualism’ came to be seenas restrictive, and the move to gender resulted in ‘gender rights’ covering abroad and vague spectrum of persons was incorporated into legislation onchange of status and in anti-discrimination statutes.The next signifi cant document relating to the right to gender identity thatpurports to be international came much later, in the Yogyakarta Principles,which arose from a meeting of a ‘distinguished group of 29 experts in inter-national law’ in Indonesia in 2006, and were formalised in 2007 (Ettelbrickand Zeran, 2010 : 30). Though not incorporated into any UN conventionsor declarations, the Principles, their promoters argue, have had great eff ectwithin the UN, being regularly cited and used as a reference point (ibid.).The Principles cover sexual orientation and gender identity. In terms of sex-ual orientation, the Principles do seem to constitute an important develop-ment for those seeking to challenge laws that still impose harsh punishmentson homosexuals in many countries. They form a basis for arguing for theprohibition of the considerable discrimination and violence that lesbians andgay men face, even where homosexuality is not illegal. The problem with thePrinciples is that they append ‘gender identity’ rights to rights based on sexualorientation. This is a puzzling conjunction, considering that homophobia hasbeen such an important cause of the construction of the idea of transsexualismand disorders of gender identity in the sexology of the late twentieth century.Despite this contradiction, the main organisations campaigning for theincorporation of ‘gender rights’ into law are lesbian and gay ones, includingthe International Lesbian and Gay Association, the US National Center forLesbian Rights (NCLR), and the US National Gay and Lesbian Taskforce.The National Center for Lesbian Rights states, ‘NCLR is proud to have beenthe LGBT legal organization to launch a Transgender Law Project’, andthis later became the Transgender Law Center (NCLR, n.d.). This develop-ment from a supposedly lesbian organisation is surprising, considering thatthe transgendering of lesbians extinguishes their lesbianism and few otherorganisations are dedicated to the abolition of the community they represent(Jeff reys, 2003 ). The main US lesbian and gay organisation, the National Gayand Lesbian Taskforce (NGLTF), also stresses the importance of transgenderrights to its core business: ‘Transgender people and issues are core to ourwork at the Task Force. We are proud of our history as one of the nationalLGBT organisations to include transgender people in our mission, starting in’ (NGLTF, n.d.).Transgender activists have worked hard to ensure the support of lesbianand gay groups, even going so far as to claim that homosexuality itself is justa form of transgenderism. Phyllis Frye, for instance, explains that he held aworkshop at the 1997 ‘Tenth Annual Creating Change Conference’ in SanDiego, which was sponsored by the NGLTF, along with Jamison Green andShannon Minter, ‘to ask the question, “Is sexual orientation a subset of genderidentity?” ’. He argues that ‘lesbians, gays and bisexuals are actually the subsetsand members of the larger gender identity community’ (Frye, 2000 : 154–155).This idea is repeated again in a report on ‘trans people’ in the UK: ‘There is astrong argument that much homophobic crime is actually transphobic, as it isa person’s gender presentation which attracts attention in public spaces ratherthan a prior knowledge of their sexual orientation’ (Whittle et al ., 2007 : 55).This seems to be a tenet of transgender activist ideology that is intended topersuade lesbian and gay groups to see a commonality of interest.Another serious problem with the Yogyakarta Principles is the confus-ing notion of ‘gender’ that pervades the document and which its defi nitionof ‘sexual orientation’ is based upon: ‘Sexual orientation is understood torefer to each person’s capacity for profound emotional, aff ectional and sexualattraction to, and intimate and sexual relations with, individuals of a diff erentgender or the same gender or more than one gender’ (International Panel ofExperts, 2007 : note 1). Lesbians and gay men who reject the idea of role play-ing will have problems with this assumption that homosexuals are attractedto persons on the basis of the same ‘gender’ rather than the same sex. Somemay reject the idea that they have a ‘gender’, and certainly be concernedas to why they should be assumed to be attracted to a person based on theperformance of masculinity or femininity. It is worrying that this degree ofprofound confusion is at the foundation of the campaign even by lesbian andgay organisations for ‘gender’ rights. The defi nition of ‘gender identity’ in thePrinciples is broad and vague and refl ects queer and transgender theory andessentialist notions of gender:each person’s deeply felt internal and individual experience of gen-der, which may or may not correspond with the sex assigned at birth,including the personal sense of the body (which may involve, if freelychosen, modifi cation of bodily appearance or function by medical, sur-gical or other means) and other expressions of gender, including dress,speech and mannerisms.(International Panel of Experts, 2007 : 6)In the Principles, the category of ‘sex’ is entirely omitted in favour of ‘gen-der’. They state that ‘violence, harassment, discrimination, exclusion, stigma-tisation’ are ‘directed against persons in all regions of the world because oftheir sexual orientation or gender identity, that these experiences are com-pounded by discrimination on grounds including gender, race, age, religion,disability, health and economic status’. Sex does not appear in this account,and as a result women are expunged, since discrimination against femalesstarts in the womb and is not related to ‘gender’. In a feminist and social con-structionist understanding, gender is a result and manifestation of the subor-dination of women as a sex caste, rather than the reason for it.The fact that ‘gender identity’ is increasingly defi ned as a moveable feastmay create difficulties for the interpretation of these legal Principles. A majorstudy of those identifying as ‘trans’ in the UK in 2007 acknowledged thattransgenderism does not constitute a defi ned category, saying that ‘[t]he cat-egories transvestite, transgender and transsexual are commonly understoodas discrete. This research has found that trans people have complex genderidentities, often moving from one “trans” category into another over time’(Whittle et al ., 2007 : 14). The survey found that 44 per cent of respondentsnot living permanently in their ‘preferred gender’ ‘intended to do so in thefuture’ and this ‘has implications for current law which off ers some legal pro-tections only for those who are understood as transsexual’ (ibid.). This degreeof fl exibility might be expected to create difficulties for lawmakers, since itimplies that the right to be considered a ‘woman’ in the law, which is how‘gender identity’ is generally interpreted, can be wielded by men who ‘dress’occasionally or just at weekends. For women, of course, their sex caste statusis a full-time and lifelong condition.Despite their problematic and confusing nature, the Yogyakarta Principleshave been seen as a very important development in the human rights domain(Ettelbrick and Zeran, 2010 ; O’Flaherty and Fisher, 2008 ). Though they arenot binding in international law, they have been understood as ‘an authorita-tive interpretation of international law’ (Ettelbrick and Zeran, 2010 : 11) andhave ‘catapulted discussion and action on human rights related to sexualorientation and gender identity to new highs within the United Nations’,and they ‘provide an important universal defi nitional point’ for ‘hundredsof academic papers, bills, resolutions and other documents’ (Ettelbrick andZeran, 2010 : 13). Human Rights Watch calls them ‘A groundbreaking set ofprinciples on sexual orientation, gender identity, and international law … alandmark advance in the struggle for basic human rights as well as genderequality’ (Human Rights Watch, 2007 ). Unfortunately, ‘gender equality’ is notpossible because ‘gender’ is a hierarchy, but this assumption by Human RightsWatch that the Principles will somehow advantage women shows the seriousconfusion that the language of gender has created in the human rights com-munity. The piggy-backing of the right to ‘gender’ onto lesbian and gay rightshas the eff ect that any advances in lesbian and gay rights will also deepen theclash of rights that the idea of a right to gender creates for women. This ismost unfortunate, since there is no doubt that the advancement of rights forlesbians and gay men is of great importance.An example of the impact of the Principles on policymakers can be foundin the 2011 report from the office of the Director-General for Justice of theEuropean Commission, which spelt out the importance of eliminating dis-crimination on the grounds of ‘sex, gender identity and gender expression’(Agius and Tobler, 2011 ). The report, which is likely to be infl uential since itemanates from such a source, is based on all the problematic and confusingnotions common to queer theory discourse on gender. It states that ‘negativeattitudes towards trans and intersex people’ are often ‘directly correlated tothe importance that a determinate society places on the binary gender model,as well as the levels of gender stereotypes, sexism and gender inequalities thatexist within it’ (Agius and Tobler, 2011 : 5). A feminist analysis is rather diff er-ent, and understands the ‘gender binary’ and inequality based upon biologicalsex to be the cause of the very concept, ‘gender identity’, which the reportseeks to protect. The report’s defi nition of ‘trans’ is so broad as to be almostmeaningless:Indeed the term trans is an umbrella term that includes, but is not lim-ited to men and women with transsexual pasts and people who iden-tify as transsexual, transgender, transvestite/cross-dressing, androgyne,polygender, genderqueer, agender, gender variant or with any othergender identity and gender expression which is not standard male orfemale, and who express their gender through their choice of clothes,presentation, body modifi cations, including the undergoing of multiplesurgical procedures.(ibid.)One group of persons that is not included is that quite large group thateschews gender altogether and refuses to obey any of the social demands todemonstrate a particular gender on their persons, many of whom, but not all,are lesbian or gay. They are not ‘trans’ because they do not fetishise gender inany form, but simply choose to live without it.The implications of incorporating genderstereotypes in the lawThere are two troubling implications of incorporating the protection of ‘gen-der’ in the law that will be considered here through the examination of twosupposedly pioneering examples of legal change, the UK Gender RecognitionAct of 2004 and the Australian Amendment to the Sex Discrimination Act of. The implication is that when gender is inscribed in law this createslegal protection for the traditional gender stereotypes that originate in thesex caste system. The second is that the increasing vagueness of the category‘gender’ enables men to gain protection in law for their impersonation ofwomen, even when they are physically entire, and therefore capable of bothraping and impregnating women and girls, and when they are but occasionalcross-dressers. Whereas once ‘transsexuals’ were required to have a diagnosisof gender identity disorder, have performed a real life test of living as theopposite sex and to have undergone physical treatment to alter their bodies,persons claiming protection for their ‘gender identities’ need to prove noneof these things. In many countries, recognition of change of sex or genderstill requires evidence of treatment for gender identity disorder, but this ischanging. As the defi nition of those who require protection for their ‘genderrights’ broadens, national legislation is being created that follows a wider ‘de-pathologising’ model. An ongoing campaign by transgender activists to enablerecognition of changed sex caste status without any diagnosis or treatment iscurrently under way and is making considerable headway. The 2004 GenderRecognition Act in the UK still requires a diagnosis, but it eschews treatmentas a criterion for gaining a certifi cate of changed status. It is a prime exampleof the move to ‘gender’ in legislation; and the confusion around ‘gender’, inwhich the Act is mired, leads to some strange outcomes (Jeff reys, 2008 ).The UK Gender Recognition Act of The 2004 Gender Recognition Act (GRA) in the UK was radical for its time.The UK Act goes further than other countries, enabling transgender personswho have undergone surgical treatment to gain new birth certifi cates and therights of their, as the GRA puts it, ‘acquired gender’. There is, of course, nosuch thing as a non-acquired gender, but the legislation, and the parliamen-tary debates at the time, see-saw between seeing ‘gender’ as just another wordfor sex, and seeing it as socially constructed. The Act is unusual in enablingtransgenders who have had neither surgical nor hormonal treatment to gainrecognition in their new ‘gender’. The language of ‘gender’ rather than ‘sex’is used in the legislation. Though the Act is apparently about ‘gender’, a sub-ject that feminists have usually understood to be their own political stampingground, no women’s or feminist groups made submissions in the lead up tothis Act. A whole conversation about what constitutes sex and gender andwhat, for example, a woman is – including the creation of legislation withconsiderable social and political implications for women – took place off stageas if it were not the concern of women or feminists to be involved in thediscussion of these issues.The Act is the child of an international movement of transgender activ-ists, represented in the UK by organisations such as Press for Change (PFC),the Gender Trust, and the FTM Network. The social acceptability of trans-genderism in the present is suggested by the fact that the two main cam-paigners from PFC, Christine Burns and Stephen Whittle, were awarded anMBE and an OBE respectively for their campaigning eff orts for transgenderrights and towards the GRA. The 2004 Act is to ‘make provision for and inconnection with change of gender’ (GRA, 2004). The Act defi nes ‘acquiredgender’ as ‘the gender to which the person has changed’ or ‘The gender inwhich the person is living’. Under the Act, persons applying for ‘recogni-tion’ of their ‘acquired gender’ must appear before a panel that will decidewhether to ‘recognise’ them or not. The panel must grant the application ifthe following conditions are met by the applicant: they must have or have had‘gender dysphoria’; have performed what is usually called the ‘real life’ test,i.e. lived in the acquired gender throughout the period of two years endingwith the date on which the application is made; and intend to ‘continue tolive in the acquired gender until death’. Though the problem of transgenderregret and the difficulty of any of the aspirants being able to promise not tochange their minds were raised in the parliamentary debates, neither wasconsidered to undermine the spirit of legislation which was based on the ideathat ‘real’ transgenders can be recognised and that regrets do not happen. Nomechanism was created to allow those ‘recognised’ under the Act to returnand receive a fresh certifi cate, or series of them in future years, each time theychanged their gender identity.The applicant must provide evidence of their ‘acquired gender’ in theform of either ‘a report made by a registered medical practitioner practisingin the fi eld of gender dysphoria and a report made by another registeredmedical practitioner’ or ‘a report made by a chartered psychologist practisingin that fi eld and a report made by a registered medical practitioner’ (GRA:Article 3). Unlike legislation of this kind elsewhere, it does not require thatapplicants should have undergone medical treatment in the form of hor-mones or surgery, and this can lead to some peculiar consequences. It createsa new situation in which an intact female can become legally male, and maygive birth to and raise a child as the ‘father’ although, according to the UKlegislation, the birth certifi cate should specify that the person who gave birthis the ‘mother’ rather than the ‘father’. It also creates the situation that a manmay, with the aid of a certifi cate recognising him as a woman, enter women-only spaces, which happened in relation to women’s prisons in the UK as wewill see later in this chapter. This problem for women’s security is exacerbatedby the fact that such a man may be physically entire.Though the Gender Recognition Act was radical for its time in not requir-ing drug or surgical treatment to qualify for a certifi cate of change of ‘gender’,the international campaign and discussion of transgender rights has movedon considerably in the ensuing decade. This is clear from an examination ofthe Australian Amendment to the Sex Discrimination Act in 2013, where‘gender identity’ is defi ned so broadly that it represents simply appearance or‘mannerisms’ and makes no mention of either diagnosis or treatment. In thislegislation gender identity is simply a matter of personal choice and, poten-tially, subject to change from one moment to the next.The Australian Sex Discrimination Act Amendment Law change to incorporate gender rights is moving fast and developing inline with the queer theory approach to gender. The 2013 Amendment tothe federal Sex Discrimination Act in Australia adds the categories of sex-ual orientation, gender identity and intersexuality to those protected fromdiscrimination (Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia,a ).It goes so far as to imply that everyone has a gender, and enables, under‘gender identity’, persons to be ‘neither male nor female’ (Parliament of theCommonwealth of Australia, 2013b ). The defi nition of ‘gender identity’ isvery broad and does not require a diagnosis or treatment, or any period inwhich the aspirant has to live as the gender they aspire to be, and seems tofacilitate any person to claim a ‘gender identity’ on a temporary or occasionalbasis: ‘gender identity means the gender-related identity, appearance or man-nerisms or other gender-related characteristics of a person (whether by wayof medical intervention or not), with or without regard to the persons’ des-ignated sex at birth’ (Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia, 2013a : 6,Subsection 4 (1)). It is interesting to speculate on what is meant by ‘manner-isms’, which could perhaps include the behaviour of hair fl icking that two ofthe female partners in Chapter 4 describe their husbands as adopting as theytransgendered. This incorporation into law of such fi nely calibrated measuresof socially constructed masculinity and femininity is a new development.The legislation implies that everyone will have a ‘gender identity’ by defi ningdiscrimination on the ground of gender identity as occurring when ‘the dis-criminator treats the aggrieved person less favourably than, in circumstancesthat are the same or are not materially diff erent, the discriminator treats orwould treat a person who has a diff erent gender identity’ (Parliament of theCommonwealth of Australia, 2013a : 5B). There is no provision for using asa comparator a person who does not have a ‘gender identity’, and indeeddoes not believe in such. In this way the Australian state has now created anassumption that everyone has a gender identity, and the possession of such aquality seems to have become compulsory and unavoidable.The Amendment breaks new ground by allowing for the possibility thata person may not identify as male or female. According to the ExplanatoryMemorandum that accompanies the legislation, the defi nition of ‘genderidentity’ ‘provides maximum protection for gender diverse people’, a termthat introduces a new level of obscurity since the idea of ‘gender’ relates to asystem in which there are only two genders, masculinity for the male, dom-inant sex caste and femininity for the female, subordinate sex caste; diversitydoes not apply (Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia, 2013b : Article). The defi nition includes the way ‘a person expresses or presents their gen-der and recognises that a person may not identify as either male or female’.However, whether the person ‘identifi es’ or not, unless they are intersex, theywill be biologically male or female, so the legislation enables the fantasy life ofcitizens to be protected by the state. It is likely that the ‘neither’ category willbe of most use, immediately, to an Australian man who won a decision in theNew South Wales court just as the Amendment was reaching its fi nal stage ofgoing through the legislature, that he could get his birth certifi cate changedto recognise him as ‘neither male nor female’ (Bibby, 2013 ). This decision isbeing celebrated as path-breaking. In fact Norrie May Welby is a male personwho transgendered at the age of twenty-eight and then regretted his decision,but has decided not to identify as male even though he no longer considershimself female. This is probably because he has had his testicles amputatedand is, as he puts it, a ‘eunuch’ (ABC, 2003 ). He is a man who started out asa gay drag artist before SRS and then, to survive fi nancially, was prostitutedby men (ibid.). Welby’s situation suggests that the law will constantly have toevolve, on an ad hoc basis, to take into account the dysfunction caused by themedical and social acceptance of transgenderism in the place. Whereasintersex persons may reasonably choose to declare that they are ‘neither malenor female’, this does not apply to men like Norrie Welby, who are likely tobe unambiguously, biologically male but have suff ered the confi scation oftheir genitals by medical professionals licensed by the state.Once they have accepted the legal validity of ‘gender rights’, legislators arefi nding that they have to create more and more vague and confusing languageand concepts. There is a slippery slope towards meaninglessness, such as enab-ling persons who are biologically male or female to realise their fantasies thatthey are not, with the imprimatur of the state. The full implications of suchlegislation for women’s rights will be elucidated through case law in years tocome, but in some jurisdictions decisions are being made under the aegis of‘gender rights’ that are clearly very problematic for women’s rights to dignityand security. The next section of the chapter will examine the implications ofenabling men to exercise their ‘gender rights’ to enter spaces in which womenare particularly vulnerable – women’s toilets and women’s prisons.Women-only toilets and the right to dignityDignity is an important principle in human rights law. The UniversalDeclaration of Human Rights opens with the words, ‘Whereas recognitionof the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights of all mem-bers of the human family is the foundation of freedom, justice and peacein the world’ (United Nations, 1948 ). The entry of male-bodied personsinto women’s toilets is happening with increasing frequency in the UnitedStates in particular, and is being justifi ed successfully with reference to genderrights. This subjects women to the potential for a range of sexually harassingbehaviour by men that violates women’s right to human dignity. The broadwording of recent documents relating to gender rights creates the possibilitythat both old-fashioned ‘transsexuals’ who have gone through reassignmentsurgery, as well as cross-dressers who engage in their hobby on particular daysor weekends, would be able to use women’s toilets.Historically in the west, the availability of women-only toilets has beenan important feminist aim, and the sine qua non of women’s equality (Penner, ). Women cannot go out to work or access public space without accessto safe toilets. This is still a very considerable problem in countries such asIndia where there are human rights campaigns about the right to women’stoilets, to enable girl children to go to school, as well as to enable women toescape the sexual violence they are vulnerable to when having to defecate orurinate in fi elds or public places (Yardley, 2012 ). Presently in the west, how-ever, it does seem that such facilities, which are so crucial to women’s well-being and opportunities, are being threatened by the demands of men whocross-dress to access them.The creation of a ‘right’ for men to enter women’s toilets has, potentially,a number of negative eff ects, such as the deterrence of women from usingthem, creating potential health problems, and the forcing of women into theintimate proximity of men, some of whom have a clear interest in the sexualexcitements that they can access by violating women’s right to human dignityin such places. The danger to women’s dignity and security that such entrycan occasion is illustrated by the considerable amount of pornography freelyavailable on the web in which men display and exchange photographs theyhave taken by stealth, through hidden cameras, of women in toilets and lockerrooms, defecating and urinating, or naked in showers. This material is a subsetof the genre of pornography more usually called ‘upskirts’, which is the namemale porn consumers give to the practice of photographing up women’sskirts without their knowledge. Men do this by using cameras on the tips oftheir shoes on escalators, by having cameras in bags they place on the fl oornext to women, and, particularly, by putting hidden cameras in women’s toi-lets and shower rooms. The upskirting phenomenon has been recognised asan off shoot of mobile phone technology that enables a new form of sex-ual harassment and violence against women, and concern about this has ledto the introduction of new legislation in several countries to address theissue (Powell, 2009 ). The men who engage in upskirting are a varied group,including male tennis fans at the Australian Open (ibid.), male school studentswho uploaded fi lm of a teacher onto the Internet (Epstein, 2012 ), and evena male urologist. In a case in New York in August 2012, a respected urolo-gist extended his professional interest into a new direction, and was arrestedfor fi lming up a woman’s skirt on a station platform (Newcomb, 2012 ). Thisform of voyeurism includes the direct targeting of women’s excretory func-tions for observation, fi lming and sound recording.The off enders who target women in order to gain excitement from theviolation of their dignity in this way include men who dress in women’sclothes. There is a surprising number of cases in which men wearing women’sclothing have been arrested for engaging in behaviour in women’s toilets thatis harmful to women. The range of acts they engage in includes secret pho-tographing of women using the toilets and showers, peeping at women fromadjacent stalls or under stall dividers, demanding that women recognise themas women and becoming aggressive if the women do not, and luring chil-dren into women’s toilets to sexually assault them. It is not possible to knowwhether these are men who consider that they are transsexual or transgenderor just men adopting women’s clothing in order to facilitate their access towomen and children, but the problem of allowing men to enter women’stoilets persists in either case. The website GenderTrender has a useful listing ofsuch arrests in the last few years (GenderTrender, 2011a ). In a British case aman dressed up as a ‘mannequin with a mask and a wig’ to enter a cubicle inthe women’s toilets in a shopping mall, where he ‘performed’ an unspecifi ed‘sexual act’ ( The Telegraph , 2011 ). The twenty-two-year-old man told police he‘found the sound of women on the toilet sexually exciting’, and he had fi lmedwomen’s feet from beneath cubicle doors on his mobile phone and recordedthe sound of a fl ushing toilet. In another case a man dressed as a woman wasobserved peeping at women and using a cell phone to photograph them in aUC Berkeley women’s locker room (Rufus, 2010 ). In a Little Rock, Arkansascase, a thirty-nine-year-old man wearing women’s clothing was arrested afterexposing himself and masturbating in front of three children and trying to lurethem into the women’s bathroom (Newport TV, 2010 ). He had a long historyof indecent exposure. In May 2013 a man wearing ‘women’s’ clothing, whohad been using a concealed camera to fi lm women in the women’s toilets, wasarrested in California ( Daily News , 2013 ). There is, of course, no parallel behav-iour on the part of women who seek to enter men’s toilets to videotape themusing the facilities, and men do not need sex-segregated toilets to protect theirdignity and security as women do.The clash of rights that the right to ‘gender identity’ protection creates isparticularly clear in the Colleen Francis case in the United States in October. In this case, Francis, a forty-fi ve-year-old person born male, thrice mar-ried, the father of fi ve children, possessed of intact male genitalia, and who livedas a man until 2009, has established the right to use the sauna in the women’slocker room at Evergreen State College (Golgowski, 2012 ). The locker roomis used by the girls from two neighbouring high schools and some parentscomplained that this male-bodied person was naked in the locker room in thepresence of their girl children. The college said that it had legally to protectColleen’s right to be naked in the women’s locker room, directed the girls toa smaller, less adequate facility and then put up a curtain in the main lockerroom saying the girls could change behind it. Francis’ right to ‘gender identity’trumped the rights of those born and raised female. The cases covered hererepresent just a fraction of those listed on the blogs of transcritical feminists.Moreover, the reported cases are likely to represent the tip of the iceberg ofthis form of off ending by men, since usually women are unaware that they arebeing recorded or observed.The right of cross-dressing men to use women’s toilets is supported by asupposedly progressive alliance of queer theorists and activists who argue thatsex-segregated toilets are unnecessary and irretrievably outdated. One suchis Sheila Cavanagh of York University, author of Queering Bathrooms ( 2010 ).She pooh poohs the idea that ‘trans people’ could be sexual predators, andsays there has been,(to my knowledge) no report of a trans person physically or sexu-ally attacking a cisgendered (non-trans) patron in the restroom. It isas though the toilet has become an icon of danger evoked by thosewho cannot logically substantiate their opposition to trans inclusivelegislation.(Cavanagh, 2011 : 18)There is, though, a great deal of evidence that men are violent towardswomen, across cultures and across history (Romito, 2008 ), and there is nogood reason why men who dress in women’s clothing will behave diff erently.In fact, as we have seen above, there is considerable evidence that there aremen who, whether simply cross-dressed or ‘transgender’, do engage in vio-lence towards women in spaces such as toilets, and such expressions of scornand derision towards those who point out such uncomfortable truths cannotnegate them.Cavanagh argues for degendered toilets and states, ‘Gender inclusive andluxurious toilets are a worthwhile project for the 21st century’ (Cavanagh, : 20). Unfortunately, this argument, which is made in pursuit of trans-gender rights, is beginning to gain ground not just in the rarefi ed world ofqueer theory but in local government policy. In 2013 the City Council ofBrighton and Hove in the UK announced its intention to degender its pub-lic toilets (Ward, 2013 ). The Council states that it wishes to promote ‘genderneutrality’ and ‘build facilities which are open to all, regardless of sex’. Thisinitiative was to begin with the building of a block with four new lavatoriesand a cafe. The toilets would have images depicting a man, a woman and achild on the doors. The Council opined that such facilities would be ‘moreaccessible for those who do not identify with the male –female binary’ (ibid.).Subsequently, single sex toilets would be progressively phased out. The policyis in response to a demand by a Council working group set up to exam-ine ‘issues faced by transgender residents’ of the city. The group, the ‘TransEquality Scrutiny Panel’, also recommended that titles that referred to gender,such as Mr, Mrs, Miss and Ms, should be banned in order not to off end thetransgender community and force them to ‘choose between genders’. TheGreens Party councillors supported the plan, and, interestingly, it was up tocouncillors from the conservative side of politics to point out that this wasa violation of women’s right to security. A councillor from the oppositionTory group argued that ‘[l]ocal residents, particularly women with children,would much prefer to use separate facilities as apart from anything else, it issafer’ (ibid.).Transgenderism and the prison systemWomen’s toilets are not the only segregated space in which women are par-ticularly vulnerable to the entry of men who seek to exercise their ‘genderrights’. Women’s prisons are another space that they are seeking the legalright to enter, and this provides a powerful example of the clash of rights thatis created when men’s rights to personate women are promoted above therights of women. Male prisoners in Western countries are using human rightslaws successfully to gain access to transgender treatment at public expense inprison, and the right to then transfer to the women’s prison. The men whoare being given the right to live alongside women in prison include some ofthose most dangerous to women’s safety – men who have been convicted ofcrimes of grave violence including the murder of women. Men who trans-gender are more prone to criminal behaviour than other men are. Researchfrom the United States shows that 21 per cent of men who transgender hadbeen sent to prison for any reason, which contrasts with 2.7 per cent of thegeneral American population (Grant et al ., 2011 ). Though the demands of‘transgender’ prisoners are still being refused in some jurisdictions, they areincreasingly successful, being well supported by gay organisations and majorlaw fi rms.In Australia, the transgendering of prisoners is not yet routinely facilitated.If it were, then one candidate would be Australian serial killer, Paul Denyer.Denyer killed three young women in Bayside suburbs of Melbourne, overseven weeks in 1993. He sought during his sentence to ‘wear make-up in jail,have a taxpayer-funded sex change and formally alter his name by deed pollto Paula’ (Dunn, 2012 ). He was refused, and in July 2012 exhibited behaviourthat showed how unlike a woman he actually was. Police were reported to beinvestigating four alleged rapes by Denyer of men with intellectual disabil-ities who were fellow inmates. The Denyer case does illustrate the problemsthat might occur as a result of the recognition of violent male criminals as‘women’ and their transfer to women’s facilities. There is no reason that abelief that they are ‘women’ will alter such men’s tendencies to engage ina form of sexual violence that is specifi cally and clearly male. In anotherAustralian case, in 2012, Derek Lulu Sinden was refused permission in theQueensland courts to start hormone treatment for gender identity disorder.The Queensland Corrections Department argued that the refusal was con-sistent with its policy of only supplying hormones to men who started totake them before entering the prison system (Smith, 2012 ). Sinden had beenconvicted of an attack on seventy-one-year-old Beryl Grace Brown in April, in her home, which caused her to suff er a heart attack and fatal stroke.Though there is still resistance to enabling male prisoners to transgenderin the United States, court judgements in 2011 and 2012 have establishedthe rights of male prisoners to access transgender treatment in the form ofboth hormones and surgery. In a landmark case in 2011, a man who had aserious history of sexual off ences against girl children won the right to hor-mone treatment in prison (McDermott et al ., 2011 ). Sandy Battista started hisviolence against girls at a young age. Battista’s mother was killed by his fatherwhen he was six years old, and he was, allegedly, sexually abused while in thecustody of his grandparents. When he was fourteen he assaulted a six-year-old girl, and a year later took another girl child into the woods but did notassault her. In a 1986 case, Battista got caught making obscene phone calls toyoung girls he picked out of local newspapers, and a decade later, Battista waspenalised for keeping pictures of young girls in his jail cell. He was diagnosedas having gender identity disorder in 1997. The law fi rm, McDermott Will& Emery, which started acting for Battista in his case against the authoritiesfor not allowing him transgender treatment, announced proudly on theirwebsite that they were successful in what they consider an important humanrights victory, that of enabling him to have hormone treatment. The judgein the case found, in 2011, that denying Battista treatment would constitute‘cruel and unusual punishment which consists of the neglect of her seriousmedical needs’ (ibid.). That precedent was used in the case of another vio-lent male prisoner in the United States in 2012 who was seeking the rightnot just to hormones but to state funded sex-reassignment surgery (Lavoie, ). Robert Kosilev murdered his wife, Cheryl, in1990, and was living asa woman and taking hormones while in a men’s prison at the time of thehistoric judgement. This case is the in which a federal judge, Judge MarkWolf, has ordered prison officials to provide sex-reassignment surgery for atransgender inmate. The judge ruled that reassignment surgery was the onlyway to treat ‘her’ ‘serious medical need’. The ruling is expected to set a pre-cedent for other men seeking reassignment in jail.The question of transfer to a women’s prison is intertwined with suchdecisions, and this ‘right’ was established in the UK in a court case in 2009,when there was a successful appeal from an unnamed male prisoner to bemoved to a women’s prison. The petitioner in this case was found guilty in of the manslaughter of his male lover, who was strangled with a pairof tights, allegedly for refusing to fund the murderer’s sex-change surgery.He was sentenced to fi ve years’ imprisonment. Five days after his release heattempted to rape a female stranger and was sent back to prison. In order toget gender reassignment surgery the prisoner was told that he must engage inthe real life test, that is two years living as a woman, which required transfer toa women’s prison. He appealed under the European Convention on HumanRights to be allowed such a transfer. His lawyer told the court that the crimeswere all linked to ‘a desperation to become a woman’. The judge declaredthat ‘her continued detention in a male prison is in breach of her rightsunder Article 8 [the right to private and family life]’ under the Convention.The man’s barrister, Phillippa Kaufmann, referred to the man as a womanand said, ‘She lives as a woman amongst men on a vulnerable prisoners’ unitand she can’t wear what she wants or more than subtle make-up. They arean important statement of her femaleness’ (Allen, 2009 ). The women in theprison where he will be housed will not be told of his identity or of hisoff ence (ibid.). There is a clear clash of rights here, in which a man’s right towear make-up and be housed with vulnerable women who are incarceratedtrumps the right of those women to be protected from violent men. Thenotion of human rights is trivialised thereby.In response to the judgement, new guidelines were issued for the treat-ment of prisoners seeking gender reassignment in UK prisons in March 2011,which enabled prisoners to have treatment and to be located in women’sprisons. The guidelines state,A male-to-female transsexual person with a gender recognition cer-tifi cate may be refused location in the female estate only on securitygrounds – in other words, only when it can be demonstrated that otherwomen with an equivalent security profi le would also be held in themale estate.(Ministry of Justice, 2011 )The nature of the man’s off ence and the degree to which he poses a risk towomen prisoners is not considered here, only the man’s right to personatewomen while in the company of women is recognised. The integration ofmen who personate women into women’s prisons can be jeopardised bytheir rejection by women prisoners. In Italy, this was given as a reason toestablish a prison especially for transgenders in 2010 (Melloy, 2010 ). This isan expensive and complex solution, but necessary in response to the problemthat although the law recognises these men as women, actual women do not.Aurelio Mancuso, President of Italy’s GLBT organisation, Arcigay, explained,‘Housing transgender and male prisoners together is especially problematic.But their relations with female prisoners are also far from straightforward.The women just don’t consider them women’ (ibid.).The problems that can arise from housing a man in a women’s prisonbecame clear in a Canadian case in 2005, when a violent transsexual hadto be removed from free association in the women’s jail in which he hadbeen placed on the grounds of his human rights, because of his aggressivebehaviour, which had included threatening staff and vandalising the building(Bhardwaj, 2005 ). Richard Kavanagh, who calls himself Synthia, was placedin a secure facility within the women’s prison. Kavanagh was sentenced tolife in prison, with no chance of parole for twenty-fi ve years, for the hammer killing in Toronto of a twenty-three-year-old transsexual prostitute,Leo James Black, also known as Lisa Janna Black. He complained to theCanadian Human Rights commission in 1999 that denial of hormone ther-apy and surgery constituted discrimination against him. Correctional servicesin Canada then revised their guidelines to allow surgery for patients whomet particular criteria, and this was seen as a landmark decision at the time.Interestingly, Kavanagh’s later behaviour was not seen as a reason to excludemen from women’s prisons but as a reason to have a separate facility forviolent ‘women’. Kevin Grabowsky of the Union of Canadian CorrectionalOfficers said that Kavanagh’s case illustrates that the correctional serviceneeds to create a special handling unit for violent female off enders, as thereis for men, but of course these men who have transgendered are not actuallyfemale off enders at all. The doublespeak required in deference to the idea of‘gender rights’ can be quite challenging. As the Kavanagh case shows, menwho personate women are not just potentially dangerous to women, but toother men who personate women as well.In another case of a man, who was in the process of ‘transition’, killing aman with ‘gender identity’ issues, thirty-four-year-old Nina Kanagasingham,of the UK, was charged with murder in 2010 over the death of the well-known human rights lawyer, Sonia Burgess (Pink News , ). Sixty-three-year-old Burgess was known to friends, family and work colleaguesas both Sonia and David. Kanagasingham pushed Sonia/David Burgess offa station platform at King’s Cross in London, where he was killed by anapproaching train. Kanagasingham was placed in a men’s prison, but after the guidelines it would seem possible for him to be placed in a women’sprison.It is a serious setback for the journey towards women’s equality when statesprotect ‘gender’ in their legislation, and proclaim that men’s rights to person-ate women are ‘human rights’. This makes ‘gender’, the mechanism whichorders the sex caste system, a matter of state. The appearance and manner-isms of gender, which represent a socially constructed and temporary way ofseparating persons into dominants and submissives in a hierarchy, are givenweight and validity. The criticism of the state recognition of this mechanismof inequality can then be seen as illegitimate and ‘transphobic’. Moreover, therecognition of ‘gender rights’ in a way that enables men to enter women’sspaces and claim to be ‘women’, creates a serious clash of rights. It subor-dinates the rights of women, persons of the female sex, to dignity, securityand privacy, to the rights of (mostly) men who choose to act out a ‘genderidentity’, a state of mind. There are few limits to the categories of men whoare gaining the right to do this in a variety of jurisdictions. Sometimes thedefi nition is so broad that it covers men who wish to occasionally cross-dressor those who regret transitioning and now consider themselves neuter. Inall cases the category of ‘sex’ – a very real caste status that women can neverescape, and that subjects them to demeaning treatment for their whole lives –disappears in favour of a fantasy in the head of the transgender person.In the last chapter, two previously women-only contexts were examined toshow the implications of demands for access to women’s toilets and prisons bymen who claim to be expressing their ‘gender rights’. This chapter examinesthe implications of such demands in relation to women-only contexts createdspecifi cally out of second wave feminism to serve the particular interests ofwomen as a subordinated group. Women’s services include refuges/shelters,rape crisis centres, women’s health centres – facilities that, though startedby volunteers, later acquired state funding. Women’s spaces include festivals,marches, women’s holiday centres and weekends away, conferences, walkinggroups that women organise and pay for themselves. The transgender activistmovement has demanded access to all of these services and spaces, for personswith male bodies. Where there has been resistance from women and lesbiansto these demands, the fallout has been greatly damaging to women’s com-munities. Transgender activists have laid siege to venues, and taken women’sservices and groups that organise women’s social events, to court, in order toenforce access.The importance of women’s services and spacesWomen’s services were set up by feminists from the 1970s onwards to servethe interests of women as a subordinate and disadvantaged group. Women’shealth centres, for example, were created in Australia out of recognition thatwomen’s particular needs were neglected in male-dominated health care.They focused upon biologically female bodies, and were sympathetic towomen’s experience (Kaplan, 1996 ; Murray, 2002 ). Shelters/refuges and rapecrisis centres and hotlines were set up to enable women to escape and healfrom men’s violence (Sweeney, 2004 ). Such women’s services are tailored towomen’s needs and off er mutual support and a forum for women’s concerns and consciousness raising. This chapter will address the considerable stressescreated within women’s communities and the ‘women’s sector’ (women’sservice organisations) by the determination of male-bodied transgenders toaccess women’s services as workers, clients and members (Price, 2007 ; Stuart, ).The chapter will also examine the campaigns by transgender activists toenter women’s spaces – which were created to enable women and lesbians tosocialise and meet politically, without men, in order to articulate their con-cerns, relax, strengthen bonds, and enjoy women’s culture, music, poetry anddance. It will consider the implications of the demand by men who trans-gender, continue to be heterosexual after transition, and proclaim themselvesto be lesbians, to access lesbian-only spaces. The spaces may not just begeographical spaces, but even physical, with some transgenders demandingphysical access to the bodies of lesbians, as in the ‘cotton ceiling’ controversy,in which male-bodied transgenders guilt-trip lesbians who do not wantpenises in their bodies, with accusations of ‘transphobia’ (GenderTrender,b ).Some feminists support admission of male-bodied transgenders to servicesand spaces (McDonald, 2006 ), while others within women’s communitiesstrongly oppose their inclusion, insisting that since they have neither wom-en’s biology or experience, they cannot empathise with the experiences ofwomen born and raised female (Greer, 1999 ; Jeff reys, 2008 ; Raymond, 1994 ;Sweeney, 2004 ). Germaine Greer, for example, accuses male-bodied trans-genders of a lack of insight about the extent of their acceptance as women,noting that when ‘he forces his way into the few private spaces women mayenjoy and shouts down their objections and bombards the women who willnot accept him with threats and hate mail, he does as rapists have always done’(Greer, 1999 : 74). Very often, splits over the issue of transgender inclusiondestroy women’s and lesbian groups and lead to the ending of those eventsthat provided women-only social spaces such as lesbian festivals and women’smusic festivals (McDonald, 2006 ; Sweeney, 2004 ; Wales, 1999 ). Important andnecessary facilities for women and lesbians are lost. There is little research thathas looked at the implications for women of the campaign by male-bodiedtransgenders to enter women’s or lesbian groups and social spaces. Similarly,there has been little research that examines the implications for women’sservices, set up to meet women’s particular needs, when male-bodied trans-genders seek access either as clients or as workers. This chapter includes datafrom an exploratory study by Lorene Gottschalk that sought to examine theextent to which management staff in women’s services in Australia, such asshelters and health centres, are aware of the implications of transgender inclu-sion, have policies about this, and have experienced attempts by male-bodiedtransgenders to gain access. Women-only services and spacesWomen’s spaces providing social support and other services were set upin countries such as Australia, the UK and the United States in the late nine-teenth and early twentieth centuries during the wave feminist movement(Blair, 1984 ; Freedman, 1979 ; Kaplan, 1996 ). Feminists campaigned for suchprovision again in the 1970s so that, for instance, the Australian governmentagreed to provide fi nancial assistance to establish and run women’s refuges,and by the end of that decade there were over a hundred funded refugesacross Australia (Johnson, 1981 ; Kaplan, 1996 ; Murray, 2002 ). Women’s healthcentres that sought to compensate for the male-centredness of the traditionalmedical profession are also government funded in Australia. The women’shealth care movement achieved considerable success in drawing attentionto women’s medical issues previously neglected in medical research, and wasresponsible for a decline in disease and maternal and neo-natal death rates(Kaplan, 1996 ). Women-only services such as refuges, centres against sexualassault (CASAs) and health centres fulfi lled a desperate need, and the benefi tsof providing services to meet these needs are well documented (Kaplan, 1996 ;Lake, 1999 ).Historically, when services are mainstreamed, women’s special needsbecome ‘invisible’ and are frequently neglected (Freedman, 1979 ; Kaplan, ). This occurred in the United States after the wave feminist move-ment, when women’s spaces were mainstreamed. One result was that theproblem of men’s violence against women, which was well known in theearly twentieth century, had to be ‘re-discovered’ by second wave feminists(Freedman, ). Creating women-only space such as women’s refuges,women’s health centres and women’s festivals has been one of the outstand-ing achievements of the second wave feminist movement (Riger, 1994 ). Inthe 1990s, however, women-only space and facilities disappeared to a largeextent as a result of the impact of a queer movement, which marginalisedlesbianism, and an anti-feminist backlash (Case, 1997 ; Faderman, 1997 ). Fewwomen-only spaces still exist, compared with what was available at the heightof the second wave feminist movement. The disappearance of women-onlyspaces has taken place at the same time as a general winding back of allfacilities dedicated to women’s interests, such as bookstores, publishing, artgalleries and cafes. Feminist publishers have mostly disappeared, the shelvesdedicated to women’s studies in bookstores have been eliminated or mergedinto ‘gender’ or cultural studies, and women’s studies courses in universitieshave mostly been abolished or turned into ‘gender studies’. At the sametime, events previously women-only such as music festivals or marches havebecome mixed-sex. But, until recently, women’s health centres, women’s shel-ters and rape crisis services, and a few festivals and events, remained focused upon women. The transgender challenge is thus directed to the few areas inwhich a women-only principle has been maintained.The transgender challenge is an onslaught upon that most important prin-ciple of feminism, the necessity of women-only space, in which women sep-arate, by choice, from men. The lesbian feminist philosopher, Marilyn Frye,has characterised the importance of separatism to second wave feminismincisively (Frye, 1983 ). She explains that,Our existence as females not owned by males and not penis-accessible,our values and our attention, our experience of the erotic and the dir-ection of our passion, places us directly in opposition to male-suprema-cist culture in all respects, so much so that our existence is almostunthinkable within the world view of that culture.(Frye, 1983 : 145)When women forbade male entry into their groups and activities it deniedthem important goods and sources of power: ‘[f]emale denial of male accessto females substantially cuts off a fl ow of benefi ts, but it has also the formand full portent of the assumption of power’ (Frye, 1983 : 103). The contem-porary rage of male-bodied transgenders at being denied entry to women’sspaces, and the reluctance of women to give them cause for anger, can beunderstood with reference to Frye’s useful insight that ‘conscious and delib-erate exclusion of men by women, from anything, is blatant insubordination,and generates in women fear of punishment and reprisal’ (ibid.). Men’s rightof entry is conferred upon them by their position of dominance and wom-en’s lack of any right to deny this to them by their subordinate position: ‘Itis always the privilege of the master to enter the slave’s hut. The slave whodecides to exclude the master from her hut is declaring herself not a slave’(Frye, 1983 : 104). The strength and determination of the transgender chal-lenge, and the anger and vituperation with which it is often conducted, arelikely to stem from an understanding of the importance of the principle ofseparatism to women’s freedom. Examples of the transgender challenge inthis chapter will begin with the challenge to women-only social space, asexemplifi ed in the Michigan Womyn’s Music Festival, and move on to thechallenge to women’s services.The transgender siege of the MichiganWomyn’s Music FestivalThe Michigan Womyn’s Music Festival is an iconic women’s and lesbianspace that, probably for that very reason, became an early target of trans-gender activism. The festival was held in 1976 and has been held yearly, for one week, on private land, since that time. It is the oldest andbest known women’s festival in North America and, with thousands oflesbians attending, has been a most important space for the creation oflesbian culture and community (Fowler, 2001 ). It provides a geograph-ical space where, for a short period of time, women can get away fromconstant surveillance and abuse by men in public spaces, and experiencean alternative culture free of the slurs and woman hating that abound inmalestream popular culture. It would be quite difficult to overstate thevalue and importance of this festival for lesbian culture and community inparticular. Maria Fowler has written about how, from her attendancein 1995, the festival has represented ‘home’ to her (ibid.). She explains thatthe festival was set up to create a positive collective identity for lesbians,and challenges ‘dominant constructions about lesbian lives’. For many ofthe attendees, the festival ‘provides a community of resistance’ in whichthey can feel safe to express their lesbianism because they have ‘privacythat emerges from the site’s spatial and ideological remoteness from theeveryday surveillance of the heteronormative gaze’ (Fowler, : 53).Fowler quotes one attendee as saying,it’s a place … where I can feel completely and totally safe; I never haveto look over my shoulder, I can go anywhere I want any time of theday or night in any state of dress or undress and never have to worryabout anything.(Fowler, 2001 : 59)Festival policy does not permit active questioning about a person’s sex orgender, but it excludes self-identifi ed transsexuals, and ‘respect for one weekof womyn-born womyn space is requested’ (Browne, 2011 : 249).Kath Browne says that the festival ‘embodies’ separatism (Browne, 2011 :). It allows women to ‘live’ feminism and ‘acts as a way of educatingwomyn about feminist forms’. Browne explains that nudity is important tothe freedom women experience at Michfest because, ‘once on the land, awayfrom areas that could be seen by a passerby, Michfest enables women to walkaround in various states of dress and undress’ (Browne, 2011 : 251). Attendeessay that this experience can be ‘empowering in recognizing the diversity ofwomyn’s bodies and their beauty outside of conventional norms of attractive-ness’ (ibid.). This was particularly the case in terms of the communal showersunder the trees where women did not have to be ashamed of their bodies.Moreover, the festival off ers a space where women can be freely loving andaff ectionate towards one another in ways that heterosexual people take forgranted, engaging in ‘same-sex intimacies through holding hands, kissing, etc.in all of the festival spaces’ free from men’s insults and threats of violence (ibid.). These are all activities that women, and lesbians in particular, cannotfeel safe or comfortable to engage in when in male company.For all these reasons, transgender activists want access. According toEmi Koyama, author of the ‘Transfeminist Manifesto’ (Koyama, 2001 ), thesiege of the festival began in 1993 when some transgender activists set up‘Camp Trans’ opposite the entrance to the festival to protest the policy ofnot admitting self-identifi ed transgenders (Koyama, 2006 ). Camp Trans wasrepeated in 1994 and then went into abeyance until revived in 1999 as Sonof Camp Trans by the activist group Transsexual Menace and the transgenderactivist organisation, GenderPAC. The founder of both these organisationsis the male-bodied transgender, Riki Wilchins, who identifi es as a male-to-female-to-male transsexual (Wilchins, 2013 ). While the original aim ofCamp Trans was to get the festival policy changed to admit postoperativetranssexuals, by 2002 the stated policy was to gain admission for any self-identifi ed women, which would include any men who identifi ed as womenat any time, even when physically entire or just interested in occasionalcross-dressing. The campaign by transgender activists went further than justsetting up a camp, and included contacting musicians who played at thefestival and asking them to boycott it or make public statements against thewomen-only policy.They also exploited the ‘don’t ask’ policy to make incursions into thecamp and use the facilities. Karla Mantilla wrote in the US feminist news-paper Off Our Backs about the damage done to the festival by the intru-sion of male-bodied transgenders who entered the communal shower areas,naked and physically entire (Mantilla, 2000 ). She says,If these wannabe ‘women’ had any understanding of what it is to be awoman in patriarchy they would have respected, not violated, women’sspace, and they would have understood what a horrifi c violation itwould be for a woman to be confronted with a strange naked bio-logical male, penis and all, when she is unclothed and vulnerable.(ibid.)The concern of the transgender activists with their own ‘liberation’, she argues,came ‘at the expense of women trying for just one week in one remote cornerof the United States to feel completely safe from male violence’ (ibid.). Aftermale-bodied transgenders chose to enter the festival, Mantilla says that ‘thefeeling of complete safety from men and patriarchal rape culture’ was ‘eroded’because women attendees knew that ‘a man’ could always be there. Mantillacomments that the determination of male-bodied transgenders to enter thespace shows how deeply ‘threatening’ women’s separatism is to men, and thatmore such spaces are needed, not fewer. The transgender challenge, she says, is a ‘rebellion against women’s rebellion’ and works against ‘the liberation of womenfrom patriarchy’; it is straightforward anti-feminism by social conservatives.In 2010 the tactics of transgender activists who entered the festival becameparticularly violent and aggressive. A member of the security crew, who saysshe did not question anyone’s ‘gender’, described how Camp Trans set upCamp Tranarchy, and ‘vandalized the festival and threatened festival goers’(Dirt from Dirt, 2010a ). A fl yer being distributed by the activists showed arather extraordinary degree of woman hating: ‘A hot load from my mon-strous tranny-cock embodies womanhood more than the pieces of menstral[ sic ] art your transphobic cunts could ever hope to create’. Women at thecamp recorded a range of violent incidents they were subjected to. One saidthat her car was vandalised and a chemical sprayed on both door locks. Therewas gunfi re one night from the Camp Trans area, waterlines were cut andtyres slashed, shower plumbing was damaged and banners destroyed. Tentswere painted with ‘Fuck fest’ and ‘Real women have cocks’. Women spokeof being traumatised, suff ering post-traumatic stress disorder, and not feelingsafe to attend the festival again (Dirt from Dirt, 2010b ). The transgender siegehas not been entirely successful, however. There have been numerous reportsfrom the 2012 festival that, as a refl ection of a strengthening new wave offeminism, women are becoming much more organised in their oppositionto the male-bodied transgender incursions, using signs, T-shirts and chantsto show these men that they are not welcome on the land (GenderTrender, ).Lesbian spacesThe Michigan Women’s Music Festival survives as a nominally women-onlyspace at this time. Most other women’s spaces have not been so lucky andhave experienced legal challenges, or folded under the pressure to admitmale-bodied transgenders. A wide variety of women’s activities have explodedunder this pressure, including women’s walking groups and reading groups,but, most importantly, facilities designed to provide the beating hearts of les-bian community – lesbian centres – have been stricken by controversy. Oneexample of this damage is the Sydney Lesbian-Space Project. During lesbians had raised around $250,000 to buy a lesbian community centre inSydney, Australia. They wanted a women’s space but with a focus on lesbianculture and community (Kline, 2006). However, male-bodied transgenderswho identifi ed as lesbians had contributed to the fund raising on the under-standing that they would be included. After a lesbian event in Brisbane wasseverely disrupted by the presence of male-bodied transgenders, the Lesbian-Space collective felt it necessary to introduce a policy to exclude them. The new policy was strongly disputed by women who supported the right ofmale-bodied transgenders to be in women’s spaces and irreconcilable confl icterupted, with the result that the Lesbian-Space Project was abandoned andthe issue was never resolved.Transgender entryism caused the demise of the and historically sig-nifi cant lesbian centre in Canada, too. The Vancouver Lesbian Connection(VLC) was run from its inception in 1985 by a collective, and off ered ser-vices such as a library of women’s resources, a place to spend time, recreationfacilities and space for events. The VLC has iconic status in Canada’s lesbianand gay history and became ‘the template for lesbian community centres inother cities’ (DiMera, 2011 ). It was destroyed as a result of the entryism ofa male-bodied and physically entire transgender, Mamela, who had been avolunteer with the Gay and Lesbian Centre from 1995, and learnt there ofthe existence of the VLC. Mamela was attending the University of BritishColumbia gender clinic and described himself as a radical lesbian femin-ist with a female gender consciousness. He was initially refused inclusionin the VLC on the grounds of having been raised as a male, but persisted,and after much debate the VLC agreed to include men who transgenderso long as they identifi ed as lesbians, with the result that Mamela wasadmitted in 1996. This change in policy was soon regretted. According tocollective members, Mamela’s behaviour was quite disruptive, includingharassment of staff and volunteers, using resources without permission,answering the crisis line without training, and sexually propositioning staffand volunteers. The VLC eventually revoked Mamela’s membership on thegrounds of aggressive and sexually off ensive behaviour, at which pointhe fi led a complaint against the VLC with the British Columbia HumanRights Tribunal in 1999. In the Tribunal’s decision, Mamela’s complaintwas upheld and the VLC was ordered to pay $3,000 in compensation forinjury to his ‘dignity, feelings and self-respect’. But the decision came afterthe VLC had disbanded, having been unable to raise money for legal costs,and having had neither time nor energy to fi ght for the right to ‘women-only space’ (Wales, 1999 ). The eff ect of this transgender challenge was todestroy a most important resource for lesbians.The transgender challenge to women’s services has been even more eff ect-ive because these services are now usually state funded, and their staff – espe-cially when seeking to comply with legislation that enshrines the right ofmale-bodied transgenders to be understood as ‘women’ – are likely to complywith transgender demands more readily lest they lose their fi nancial viability.Transgender activists campaign to get women’s organisations and services toadopt trans-inclusion policies that enable male-bodied persons, with or with-out intact male genitalia, to gain access. The experience of the women’s sectorAs a result of transgender entryism, women’s services in many countries arehaving to devise policies to deal with a new problem. When the serviceswere set up in earlier decades, male-bodied transgenderism was a muchless signifi cant phenomenon in size and in legal clout. Rape crisis centresand women’s refuges were straightforwardly woman-centred. As they wereincreasingly mainstreamed, regulated and funded by states, they had to defendtheir women-only status, which some were unable to maintain. But othersgained exemptions from equal opportunity legislation that enabled themto maintain women-only workforces and clientele. These achievements arenow endangered by the demands of male-bodied transgenders who, throughclaiming to be women rather than men, are able to circumvent such exemp-tions. The issue of transgender inclusion can be seen as a beachhead for theinclusion of men as workers and clients. Once male-bodied transgenders,particularly those with penises intact, are included, the exclusion of menwho do not cross-dress or transition becomes one simply of where the lineto men’s inclusion is drawn. The principle is likely to be overturned. This isnot the case, interestingly enough, in the UK, where the Equality Act enables women’s services to specifi cally exclude men who transgender incertain circumstances (Women’s Resource Centre, 2011 : 6).In Australia there is no such legal exemption for the exclusion of male-bodied transgenders, and an Australian study, conducted through interviewswith nineteen women managers of CASAs, women’s shelters and women’shealth centres, sheds useful light on the implications of trans inclusion.Interviews centred on these women’s views about, and experiences of deal-ing with, the issue (Gottschalk, 2009 ). They reveal considerable determin-ation to protect the women-only nature of their services, but the issue oftransgenderism caused some dissension. Their views depended upon whetherthe interviewees saw male-bodied transgenders as ‘women’ or not, and onwhether they had direct experience of trans inclusion. In the interviews, thewomen’s opinions about a safe space for women were explored, and the wayin which their beliefs about men and male-bodied transgenders as employ-ees and clients, aligned with their philosophy. Interviewees from CASAs areidentifi ed as CASA1, those from women’s health centres as WH1, those fromrefuges as WR1, and so on.The importance of women-only spaceMost of the organisations in the study were committed to providingwomen-only space. Their stated mission is to provide a service for women,by women – though some did also provide services for men – and a minority were prepared to employ men, although only one did so at the time of theinterview. The interviewees were unanimous in their opinion that theirservice provided a safe space for clients. In the case of CASAs and domes-tic violence refuges, the concern was safety from perpetrators, who wereoverwhelmingly men. In the case of women’s health centres, it was a safespace for women to discuss sensitive health issues with female health pro-fessionals who were specially trained to deal with women’s health and well-being needs. Thus the organisations tended to be staff ed by women, withmen often specifi cally and sometimes legally excluded, through exemptionsunder equal opportunity legislation. The interviewees show an expertiseand wisdom that has developed over many years of dedication to servingthe needs of women for security, privacy and dignity.The following comments from interviewees show the emphasis theyplaced on a service provided for women, where they could have their needsmet and share experiences in a safe environment free from male domination.CASA5 stated,Our clients are women only, [our service is] run out of a ‘women’shouse’ so it is a strictly women-only space. Even with trades people alleff orts are made to fi nd female tradies. All staff are women – we haveexemption under EEO [Equal Employment Opportunity].WH1 shows a sensitive awareness of the importance of a women-onlyenvironment:One of the things I am most aware of personally is the potential forsomebody who has experienced violence or who is experiencing vio-lence … and they walk over the threshold here they do feel safe … soyou would not want to jeopardise that. [Our shelter has a] long trad-ition of being women focused and over those years we’ve developed anexpertise around women, physical, emotional and social health issuesand because we’re a women-only staff as well there’s a lot of interactionand safety. It is a cooperative female environment in which to work,safe from men.Interviewees also saw women’s space as providing an important consciousnessraising forum for women, allowing women to share stories and experiencesof violence and to learn about the institutionalisation of male dominance.CASA5 explains that women’s space,gives them a voice … to learn that it [male violence] is not the wom-en’s problem in that they are not at fault. It empowers women. Usually women are dominated by men in the wider world … if men are pre-sent, women feel disempowered given that they are victims of maleviolence.One interviewee, WR2, said that even a male tradesperson changed theatmosphere in a women’s refuge in a problematic way, undermining the feel-ing of safety,but I know whenever we’ve had like a male servicing the photocopier,or something like that, suddenly it just feels like there’s some under-lying tension in the place in terms of having clients here … and some-how the dynamics just feel diff erently.Employing transgender workersWhere centres had formal employment policies, these focused on whetheror not they would employ men, and made no mention of men who trans-gender. Some had non-discrimination policies and were open to employingmen as well as women, though generally most employees were women. Fiveof the interviewees had formally applied for a legal exemption and wereable to legally discriminate against men in their services, while others had aninformal policy to exclude the employment of men but had not formalisedthat exclusion legally. Some interviewees commented on the fact that cli-ents, including male clients, overwhelmingly preferred a female counsellor.As CASA1 explained, ‘It is women workers by demand. Even male clientsprefer a woman counsellor even though they can ask for a male. We have hadthree requests for a male counsellor in the past four years’.Where centres had applied for a legal exemption to allow them to employwomen only, they had not usually considered the issue of employing male-bodied transgenders. The opinions about trans inclusion diff ered signifi cantlyand depended entirely on whether they believed male-bodied transgendersto actually be women, and whether or not they placed importance on thediff erent socialisation experiences of women born and raised female fromthose born and raised male but identifying as women in adulthood. A minor-ity of interviewees (four) said they would prefer to exclude male-bodiedtransgenders, recognising the diff erent socialisation that women and menexperience, as CASA2 explained:We have a strong women-only policy … MTFs have diff erent experi-ences and stories growing up in a culture that defi nes masculinity andfemininity … We would not employ a transgender as a counsellor. Butit has never been discussed or addressed or challenged. An important factor that infl uenced the interviewees’ opinions about theemployment of male-bodied transgenders was whether or not they had pre-vious experience with such persons, either as workers or as clients. Two ofthe centres represented by the interviewees had employed men who hadtransgendered as workers. One of these interviewees was CASA5, who hadspoken strongly in support of women-only space and whose personal beliefwas that a male-bodied transgender was not a woman. She states,We have had an experience with a trannie. It is an issue in this organisa-tion. The biggest thing is the lack of consensus about what is a woman… Men who claim they are women inside have no idea of what it isto be a woman.The experience that CASA5 had with a male-bodied transgender workerhad resulted in strong disagreement among the staff , which the centrewas attempting to resolve: ‘there is a lot of debate and the issue remainscontentious’.Male-bodied transgenders as clientsIt was more common for the centres to have policies about whether or notto accept male-bodied transgenders as clients and the implications of accept-ing them diff ered depending on the type of service off ered. Women’s healthcentre staff are specially trained to understand and manage health concernsthat are peculiar to women. They are not trained to deal with issues aroundsex-reassignment surgery and hormone treatment, nor are they trained in thespecial mental health issues experienced by male-bodied transgenders, whichinclude the trauma of questioning gender identity, coming out as transgender,transitioning and adjusting to life as a man who has transgendered. Trainingstaff and making resources available to male-bodied persons is, inevitably, adiversion of energies and funds away from women’s health. All of the wom-en’s health centres in this study admitted only clients whom they consideredto be female, but for some this included male-bodied transgenders. Thosewho accepted male-bodied transgenders did so in the belief that a man whoidentifi es as a woman is a woman, despite not having a woman’s anatomy andpossibly having a penis. For the same reason they excluded female-bodiedtransgenders, in the belief that a woman who identifi es as a man is a man,despite having a woman’s anatomy. Female-bodied transgenders, however, dosuff er from the same health issues as women who do not transgender, as wellas the harms created by surgery and hormones, and may thus be more easilytreated in a women’s facility. One interviewee, WH2, explained that thoughshe would have preferred not to include male-bodied transgenders because of the diff erent health issues involved, she feared that any other course wouldlead to loss of funding, since state funding agencies had policies against suchdiscrimination.The centre that WH1 represented rejected female-bodied transgenderswho presented with female health issues but were prepared to accept male-bodied transgenders, for whose health needs they had no training or expert-ise. WH1 explained that her centre had been approached by a transgendersupport group who asked them to help male-bodied transgenders to monitortheir hormone treatment, and off ered help with information about trans-genderism as well as advice on developing a policy. WH1 admitted that, atthe time the policy was formed, there was ‘some robust discussion aroundfeminism, violence against women and what it is to be a woman’. Fromthe discussions, WH1 gained the impression that most of the workers at thecentre agreed that male-bodied transgenders should be included. However,an email interviewee who had worked at the centre at the time said that theconfl ict experienced by the workers, who had polarised, was severe. She hadbeen present during discussions with male-bodied transgender representa-tives and when she asked them why they did not go to a transgender supportgroup to have their needs met, one of them ‘held forth about wanting to beaccepted as a woman and wanting to be among women … to see his iden-tity confi rmed by being among women’. Expertise in transgender health,it seems, was less important than gaining access to women-only services,and gaining the important goal of getting women staff to recognise them as‘women’. Attendance and employment in women’s services serve a particularfunction for men who transgender that has nothing to do with the purposesfor which those services were established, that is, the opportunity to havetheir ‘womanhood’ affirmed.The issues involved in including male-bodied transgenders as clients inwomen’s domestic violence refuges/shelters and rape crisis centres are diff er-ent from those in women’s health centres. The perpetrators of such violenceagainst women are men, and these facilities off er space in which women canfeel safe, free of any threat from male abusers or the triggering eff ects of see-ing and being dealt with by men. Though male-bodied transgenders also suf-fer violence, the perpetrators are unlikely to be women and, though they maywish to be in spaces from which men who have not transgendered are absent,this should not be at the expense of the needs of women survivors. The inter-viewees in the study had mixed feelings. One interviewee, WR2, when askedabout transgender clients, immediately replied, ‘No we’re very clear that it isonly women and children we work with’, but she then thought further abouther reply, and said, ‘Aahh I think if she identifi es as a woman ahh I think she’dmeet the criteria.’ CASA5 felt unsure of how to respond on the issue of male-bodied transgender clients: ‘The male and female experience of socialisation is diff erent … I feel confl icted and confused about where I stand. It bringsup contradictory things for me, very complicated.’ In the end she re-affirmedthe need for retaining women-only spaces on the basis that male-bodiedtransgenders were not, in fact, women. She suggested that separate servicesshould be provided for transgenders. Unfortunately, for male-bodied trans-genders, such separate services may not be acceptable because they wouldnot satisfy the need for affirmation as a ‘woman’ that a women-only servicecan provide. One of the services off ered by CASAs and women’s refuges wasgroup-discussion therapy facilitated by a skilled counsellor, and it was in rela-tion to this important facility that concerns about male-bodied transgendersmixing with women clients was greatest. CASA5 said, ‘it would take awaythe safe space for some (women)’. CASA6 had experience of attempts to runmixed groups and felt that her women clients would object to the presence ofmale-bodied transgenders, so they would have to have the choice of separategroups that did not contain them, a development that would require extrafunding and resources.The experience of WR1 illustrates the problems that can arise with male-bodied transgender clients. WR1’s centre has a non-discrimination policy, andtheir clients are referred from mainstream health services and the police. So theyfeel they have no choice but to accept whoever is referred to them. WR1 hada person referred to the centre as a woman, who presented in women’s cloth-ing. Staff realised through mannerisms and an Adam’s apple that this person waseither a cross-dresser or a man who had transgendered. However, because hehad been referred, and because of anti-discrimination laws, they felt they hadno choice but to accept him as a client. They originally placed him in one ofthe accommodation units with women, but the women complained and saidthey ‘did not want someone with a penis with them’. One said, ‘I’m not goingin there, he’s got a penis.’ The transgender client could not be placed withwomen and children, and had to be placed on his own in a unit for six weeks,which had the eff ect of denying space to women, and prioritising the needs ofthis man over those of women who needed refuge. The workers at the refugefound the situation stressful as they did not know how to deal with it and wereafraid of breaking the law by discriminating. In the end they were forced todiscriminate against women and in favour of a male-bodied person with entiremale genitalia. Trans-inclusion policy in the case of this refuge, which was setup to service women’s needs, led to the subordination of women’s interests tothose of a person raised male and with male biology.Trans-inclusion policiesAs a corollary to changes in legislation that recognise male-bodied trans-genders as women who may then access women’s services, transgender activists have created best practice guides to train providers on how towelcome these male persons. These manuals can be quite instructive asto the lack of understanding, on the part of their authors, of the way thatthe subordination of women works. One manual, created by transgenderactivists from Canada – which has been infl uential and is provided as aresource on human rights and equality websites, trades union websites andlesbian and gay websites, for instance – argues that women should not beconcerned for their safety around male-bodied transgenders because theyare no more likely to pose a risk to women in a shelter than any other‘women’ (Darke and Cope, 2002 ). The Trans Inclusion Policy Manual statesthat ‘there is no evidence to suggest that trans … women are more ver-bally or physically abusive than other women’ (Darke and Cope, 2002 : 84).In fact there is a great deal of evidence to suggest that men, whether theychoose to transition or not, are violent towards women (Romito, 2008 ), butthe authors circumvent this difficulty by identifying male-bodied transgen-ders as ‘women’, and therefore no longer members of the class of personsthat is violent towards women. This stratagem does not work, unfortunately,because there is also much evidence that men who seek to transgender canbe counted in the ranks of rapists and murderers of women, as we saw inthe last chapter.The Canadian manual, having tossed aside the issue of women’s safety, goeson to consider, rather more sympathetically, the problems of the male-bodiedtransgenders themselves in shelters or refuges, such as the anxiety they mightfeel about ‘privacy’ if they still have penises. The manual states that most accom-modation will have single bathrooms. If the person with a penis has to sharea room with a woman, then a ‘temporary screen’ could be erected so that thepenis will not be visible when they are changing clothes. It is not acceptable,though, says the manual, for the transgender person to be asked to changeclothing in the bathroom. It is, perhaps, surprising that the issue of vulnerable,and often traumatised, women in shelters not wishing to see penises is not thefocus here, but the feelings of the person with the penis. The manual states thatrequiring a transgender person to use a single room is ‘akin to segregation’ andunacceptable. There is no excuse for such segregation, it says, just because awoman might be traumatised by violence and fi nd a transgender person trig-gering because of their masculine characteristics. The authors suggest that hav-ing to deal with masculine characteristics in their bedroom might be helpfulto a woman who has suff ered violence from men, because ‘[p]art of a survivor’shealing process is to learn to diff erentiate her abuser from others with a simi-lar characteristic: whether it’s the muscular arms of a non-trans woman or thecurly red hair of a trans-woman’ (Darke and Cope, 2002 : 86). Male-bodiedtransgenders can help women, we are told, to get over their concerns about having unknown men as their intimate companions. The manual expostulates,in an authoritarian tone, ‘The law is clear on this one: the discomfort of othersdoes not justify discrimination.’ In this way, the safety and dignity of women issubordinated to the comfort of men who have an id é e fi xe that they are, them-selves, women.The manual addresses the crucial question that is most likely to be relevantto women’s safety, of whether a woman can request not to be housed in adouble room with a male-bodied transgender. The answer it gives is that shecannot do so, and she is forced either to share with a male-bodied transgenderor exit the facility. The most intimate fraternisation with a person with malebiology, and most likely a penis, is entirely compulsory for her. The manualcompares the situation to that of a woman refusing to share with a ‘lesbian, ora woman of colour, or an Aboriginal woman’, all persons of female biologywho do not represent the class of persons that is violent towards women, andconcludes, ‘If a resident would rather leave than sleep in the same room as alesbian, a trans-woman, or an old woman, then that is her choice.’ In otherwords, she is seen as choosing to be homeless, and voluntarily abandoningher place of refuge because she is too prejudiced to remain (Darke and Cope, : 87).The manual gives the same cruel and insensitive advice for dealing witha recalcitrant woman who does not want to be counselled on her issues ofviolence and rape by a male-bodied transgender:You can deal with this situation in the same way you would if a serv-ice-user said she is not going to talk to a woman who has a disability,or to a woman she ‘knows’ is a lesbian. You can remind her that it isagainst the law for your organization to discriminate and that all staffare well-qualifi ed to provide services.(ibid.)The traumatised woman is to be guilt-tripped by accusations that she is dis-criminatory and prejudiced, and threatened into compliance. This sort ofincongruous rhetoric, designed to force women to room, shower and con-sort with men who cross-dress, or male-bodied transgenders, has not had theeff ect of making all women’s services, particularly those that retain feministpersonnel and principles, agree to admit male persons. In fact, in the case ofVancouver Rape Relief, a signifi cant victory was achieved for women’s rightto women-only services. This case may signify that the ambitions revealedin the Canadian manual will not be realised, since it establishes the right ofwomen’s anti-violence services, in particular to reject men who transgenderfrom their organisations. A male-bodied transgender on the rape crisis hotline?Vancouver Rape ReliefAn important test case took place in relation to trans inclusion on a rape crisishotline, the case of Vancouver Rape Relief and Women’s Shelter (VRRWS).One of the services off ered by VRRWS is a twenty-four-hour rape crisis linethat, at the time of the transgender challenge, received approximately 1,calls each year from women who had experienced sexual assault includingrape, incest, other forms of violence and sexual harassment from men. In VRRWS refused training to a male-bodied and postoperative trans-gender, Nixon, who sought to become a counsellor at the centre, but wasrecognised as a man on the basis of his appearance (Mathen, 2004 ). VRRWS’sposition was that women must feel safe with the persons providing services tothem and that such safety was compromised if a woman, who was a victim ofmale violence, is off ered a service by a man or a person who had not alwaysbeen a woman and was raised as a male (Mayeda, 2005 ).Though refused training as a peer counsellor, Nixon was invited tosupport the centre in another capacity, such as participating in fund rais-ing. Nixon insisted on being a peer counsellor and fi led a Human RightsComplaint. VRRWS sought a negotiated settlement, but Nixon was deter-mined to legally win the right to be a counsellor. Nixon’s argument wasthat all persons must be assessed individually in relation to the service oremployment that was being off ered. If he had won, as VRRWS founder LeeLakeman points out, this would have opened the doors to men to be seenas qualifi ed for all positions in any women’s organisation (Murphy, 2012 ). Itpotentially also sets a precedent for the dominant group, e.g. white, middleclass, male, to take positions on bodies that represent indigenous or ethnicminority groups.In January 2002, the Tribunal decision went in favour of Nixon on thegrounds that VRRWS had not proven that ‘experience as a girl and womanwas necessary to becoming a peer-counsellor to raped and battered woman’.In August 2003, the British Columbia Supreme Court conducted a judi-cial review of the Tribunal decision, and set it aside in favour of VRRWS.Nixon appealed in 2005 to the British Columbia Court of Appeal and inDecember 2005 the Court unanimously decided in favour of VRRWS,which is now permitted to restrict their selection of volunteers to excludethose born biologically male and brought up as males, and the shelter has theright to determine its own membership (Sisyphe, 2005 ). The decision fromthe British Columbia Supreme Court (BCSC) in December 2003 has set aprecedent. It has already been cited in forty-two decisions of the Tribunal andthe BCSC (Sisyphe, 2005 ). The case has also been used in Canada by indi-genous Canadians to argue, successfully, that they had the right to exclude a non-aboriginal man who applied for a position as an executive director of anindigenous organisation. The Nixon v. Vancouver Rape Relief case causeddeep divisions in the feminist and lesbian communities of Canada, and poi-soned the political atmosphere.When women’s services enable transgender access they can lose theirwomen-only status, and have to abandon the objectives which they werefounded to address. For instance, the women’s health service in San Franciscofounded by famous lesbian activists Del Martin and Phyllis Lyon and estab-lished to provide health care and health education for women, especially forlesbians, has changed its name from Lyon Martin Women’s Health Services toLyon Martin Health Services as it now also provides health care for transgenderpeople (Lyon Martin Health Services, 2008 ).Identity politics and service provisionThere are other categories of persons with ‘identities’ that do not match theirbodies, besides transgenders, which are creating online communities anddemanding rights. This could potentially create problems for other forms ofservice provision, when services targeted at particular disadvantaged groupsbecome subject to demands from persons who have a purely psychologicalidentifi cation with those constituencies. Staff at facilities and services target-ing people with disabilities might face somewhat similar dilemmas to thoserunning women’s shelters, in terms of the best use of resources, if policiesrequired them to accept transableists as clients. Transableists, after all, are able-bodied persons who consider that they have the identities of persons withdisabilities, and they may not need support in quite the same way as thosepeople who actually have disabilities do. In cases where a male-bodied trans-gender is also personating a person with disabilities, it may be that the workand diversions of energy required to serve the needs of someone with cumu-lative layers of delusion will seem an unreasonable use of resources.A transableist featured in an episode of National Geographic ’s Taboo series,Chloe Jennings-White, is also a male-bodied transgender (Jennings-White,n.d.). Chloe lives as a paraplegic in a wheelchair, but does not have a disabil-ity. The documentary does not mention that Chloe is not female and onlydeals with one of the personations, transableism, involved. Chloe (Clive) is ascientist with a Cambridge University PhD, whose hobby is one most usuallyengaged in by able-bodied persons, rock climbing (ibid.). He was a mar-ried heterosexual man with two children before embarking on his career ofimpersonation. It is interesting to consider whether, if Chloe were to requesta place in a specialised housing unit for persons with disabilities, accommo-dation would be made. The problem of identifi cation with disability, race,sex, by persons, mainly men, who do not have the experience or physiology associated with those categories, is a growing one and not just related totransgenderism.The most intimate of women’s spaces – women’s bodiesThe most important space for women is their bodies. It is men’s invasion andoccupation of women’s physical selves that has been identifi ed by feministsas the foundation of women’s subordination. Men have, historically, sold andswapped women as property in marriage and prostitution so that their bodiescan be used for sex and reproduction (Lerner, 1987 ). The attempt to wrestcontrol of their bodies from individual men and from patriarchal laws andinstitutions has been perhaps the most important underlying impetus for fem-inist activity, because without such control women have no chance to accessany other forms of freedom. Abortion has been key to feminist activism, as awoman who cannot control reproduction becomes simply a vehicle for thepurposes of others. Similarly, a woman’s right to defi ne her own sexuality, toselect only herself as a sexual partner, to choose celibacy, or to choose to relatesexually to carefully selected others, has been understood as central to women’sright to self-determination. It is perhaps not surprising, then, that male-bodiedtransgenders, in line with the generations of men who have sought to controlwomen’s bodies, consider that this is an important space to occupy.The right of women to sexual self-determination is directly contra-dicted in the attempt by some transgender activists to force women to openup their vaginas for sexual use by these men’s penises. In an extraordinaryexample of what political scientist Carole Pateman calls the male right ofaccess, some transgender activists are now seeking to guilt-trip lesbians intoallowing penises into their bodies (Pateman, 1988 ). This is taking placethrough a campaign to demolish what these transgender activists call the‘cotton ceiling’, a term that is based upon the feminist understanding thatwomen in public life face a ‘glass ceiling’ that prohibits access to men’sinner sanctums. The ‘cotton ceiling’, a term invented by the transgenderporn actor, Drew Deveaux, comprises women’s underpants, which createa barrier against penetration by the penises of male-bodied transgenders(Garmon, 2012 ). The idea that the reluctance of women and lesbians toservice these penises is a problem to be taken seriously and overcome, hasachieved such acceptability that the very malestream organisation, PlannedParenthood, facilitated a workshop on the ‘cotton ceiling’ at their confer-ence in Toronto, called ‘Pleasures and Possibilities’, in 2011. This workshopwas for male-bodied transgenders only, that is a space from which womenwere excluded, at which these men could discuss tactics to get into thebodies of lesbians or ‘cis’ women in general who were resistant to theircharms (Planned Parenthood, 2011 ). The workshop was called ‘Overcoming the Cotton Ceiling: BreakingDown Sexual Barriers for Queer Trans Women’ and run by transgenderactivist, Morgan Page (Page, 2011 ). The workshop description states,Overcoming the Cotton Ceiling will explore the sexual barriers queertrans women face within the broader queer women’s communitiesthrough group discussions and the hands-on creation of visual repre-sentations of these barriers. Participants will work together to identifybarriers, strategize ways to overcome them, and build community.(Page, 2011 )The campaign relies on guilt-tripping, in which women who resist areaccused of transphobia or transmisogyny, in an attempt to induce them toadmit unwanted penises to their bodies. In the cotton ceiling campaign,women’s right to sexual self-determination is redefi ned as a form of discrim-ination against male-bodied persons, which deserves to be zealously opposed.The male-bodied transgender activists who campaign to gain access to wom-en’s bodies in this way call their penises ‘lady sticks’. The origins of this rathersurprising term are informative. It is commonly used in transgender porn-ography, in which men with penises are prostituted for the sexual pleasure ofmale consumers. Thus, one transgender porn website, Shemale Models Tube,has this description of one of the male-bodied transgenders in a porn video:‘Ms. Meat is a horny girl who loves getting her lady stick sucked off all daylong’ (Shemale Models Tube, n.d.). It is, however, unreasonable to expect thatlesbians and feminists should suspend disbelief in order to facilitate the sexualfantasy lives of these men with penises. The quite basic demands by womenthat they should have the right to a self-defi ned sexuality and choice in whothey love are too important.The practice of separating from men to create political and social space wasfundamental to feminism from the 1970s onwards. Similarly, the creation ofservices targeted specifi cally at women was a triumph of that era and hashad very important results in improving women’s health and safety. EstelleFreedman argued, as far back as 1979 , that women-only spaces were crucialto feminism in the early twentieth century too: ‘The decline of feminism inthe 1920s can be attributed in part to the devaluation of women’s culturein general and of separate female institutions in particular’ (Freedman, 1979 :). The transgender challenge has been a signifi cant factor in the demise ofthe spaces and services that second wave feminism created. Along the way ithas caused serious internal strife in feminist and lesbian communities, which has diverted time, energy and resources and led to disillusionment and somedespair. If women’s services and spaces, which are fundamental to the possi-bilities of feminist revival in the present, are to continue or be created anew,then the right of women to gather without men, whether those are men whohave transgendered or not, has to be promoted and respected.The abolition of genderThe ‘gender’ belief system, that is, the idea that there are essential diff erencesbetween women and men, forms the justifi cation and sorting system forwomen’s subordination. This book has focused on one problematic productof this system in the present, transgenderism, and sought to show its harms,and it has argued that ‘gender’, as it is encapsulated in transgenderism, hurtsmany. The transgenders themselves are hurt by regimes of hormonal and sur-gical treatments that may not reduce their suicidality, and are likely to leadto pain, physical harms and social isolation. They are hurt, too, by being solda myth, the idea that they can be changed into a diff erent sex through suchmeans, and that this is a reasonable ambition. As the regretters point out, thereis real tragedy in having lost body parts, as well as partners, contact with fam-ily and children, and suff ering loneliness and isolation as a result of the ped-dling of this myth by the ‘transsexual empire’ of endocrinologists, surgeons,psychologists and some psychiatrists.At this time, the ‘transsexual empire’ consists of far more than medical pro-fessionals. Myriad other personnel and organisations have become involved inpeddling this pernicious idea, including many lesbian and gay organisations,liberal feminist groups, student organisations, even educators, who consider,for instance, that such an entity as the ‘transgender child’ exists. Meanwhile,the serious unhappiness of those children, men and women who feel des-perate enough to pursue the harms of transgenderism are neglected. Thetreatment of transgenderism is iatrogenic, in that it purports to enact a curefor a problem of severe psychological distress, but in fact creates new harmsand neglects the underlying malady in favour of quackery. All of those whocollude with the myth of transgenderism, whether they be queer or ‘feminist’academics, or lesbian and gay law centres, need to take some responsibility forthe harms that they are supporting. For those in lesbian and gay, and feministcommunities who might say that they have nothing to do with transgender-ism and just try to avoid the subject, perhaps because they fear the damage to their reputations, I would say that it is past time to take this hugely harmfulphenomenon seriously. As this book has sought to show, the harms are soegregious that it is not ethically acceptable to turn away.Gender, in the form of transgenderism, hurts in many ways that do notjust pertain to transgenders themselves. It hurts the wives, partners and familymembers of men and women who transgender, causing them acute distressand loss so severe that some researchers are prepared to call this post-trau-matic stress disorder. It hurts, too, the feminist movement, and threatens thegains feminists have fought for in the creation of women-only services andspaces. The very few women-only spaces that still exist, such as the MichiganWomyn’s Music Festival, are subjected to campaigns of bullying and intimi-dation. It undermines and causes huge confusion in feminist academia andfeminist theory, to the extent that the biological reality of women’s lives, onthe basis of which, and through which, females are relegated to subordinatestatus is disappeared, relegated like the dinosaur to history and museums.Gender hurts, too, in terms of the time, energy and resources that arerequired to provide legal reform, facilities, and services to support those whohave been transgendered. School, college and university counsellors are trainedin and expected to employ transgender ideology and politics (GenderedIntelligence, 2009–2013). City councils and workplaces are required to accesstraining and instigate policies that comply with transgender logic. The UKgovernment’s Equality and Human Right Commission website, for instance,contains guides for employers, schools, health care and social work staff onproviding services for and working with transgenders (Equality and HumanRights Commission, n.d.). Schools, colleges and local councils face demandsfor transgender facilities, which often involve the abolition of importantwomen-only spaces such as toilets. Youth services, prisons, shelters and manyother services are required to employ this logic too. All these institutions andpersonnel are being required to learn new language, much of which, such asthe term ‘cis’, relegates women – those who are biologically female – to asecondary status, as just one kind of woman, which is, in transgender logic,privileged over those men who travel under the illusion that they – personsborn and raised as males and with male biology – are themselves ‘women’.But the gender in transgenderism is positive for those who gain fi nan-cially from it, such as the medical professionals, counsellors, psychologists,endocrinologists, surgeons, pharmaceutical companies. It is also positive fora burgeoning online industry of providers of accoutrements, breast binders,wigs, man-size high-heeled shoes, and of advice, for example how to wearconstraining ‘feminine’ clothing and imitate ‘feminine’ posture. It is positivefor the considerable industry of transgender pornography and prostitutionthat is directed towards male cross-dressers and all men who are titillated bymaterial involving men with breast implants and penises, or men being forced to wear corsets, and so forth. It is positive, for those who do ‘diversity’ train-ing, who instruct businesses and public services to suspend their concernsabout transgenderism and comply with the right to ‘gender identity’, no mat-ter how this aff ects the rights of women. There is much money to be madefrom the transsexual empire.The gender in transgenderism is positive for the support and maintenanceof the gender scaff olding that upholds the edifi ce of male domination. In thisway transgenderism is hostile to the rights of all women. Gender functionsas a sorting system for male domination, identifying the subordinates and thedominants. It also provides the bars of the cage that imprison women in theirdaily lives. In the name of ‘gender’, girls and women grow up controllingtheir movements, taking up little space, being careful to show men and boysdeference lest they be attacked for man hating, or being bra-burning bitches.They treat their bodies as objects to be transformed for men’s gaze withmake-up and cosmetic surgery; show off areas that fashion dictates should benaked: chests, bum cracks, backs, stomachs; constrain their movement withtight clothing and shoes that harm and distort feet and cause pain. All theseare practices that maim the ambitions and desires of girls and women.Transgenderism supports the idea that there is something natural andinevitable about gender. This is despite the fact that feminists, and womenin general, constantly challenge ‘femininity’ in their actions and appearance.Transgender activists do not appreciate these challenges and seek to enforcetheir view that the protection of femininity should be the goal of feminismagainst clear evidence that many women, lesbians in particular, want no partof it. Gender functions as an ideological system that justifi es and organiseswomen’s subordination and for this reason it must be dismantled. Womenand girls cannot access full humanity and the rights and opportunities of fullhuman status (MacKinnon, 2005) while the idea that there are personalitytraits and appearance norms that are naturally and essentially associated withgirls and women still has social currency and serves to control and limit theirlives.The exhaustion of the category ‘transgender’The scope of the transgender empire may be reaching its peak, as transcriti-cism is increasing at a fast pace both within activist feminism and from wivesand regretters. There is an increasing groundswell of criticism of the con-cept and practice of transgenderism from a newly invigorated radical feministmovement. Moreover, the idea of transgenderism has become so vague andgeneral that the category is in danger of being exploded. The old idea thatmen possessed of a gender identity disorder could be eff ectively separated offfrom men who cross-dressed has been seriously undermined by a burgeoning development of men who claim to be women but retain their penises, and,like Virginia Prince, elect only to take hormones; and from men who saythat transgender treatment should be seen as cosmetic surgery that anyonecan choose. Some transgender activists seek to include all lesbians and gaymen within the category transgender. The term is fast losing any distinctivemeaning.The claims of transgender activists to ‘rights’ for their gender identities arein imminent danger of being discredited by a proliferation of rather moreunusual identity politics online, which are presently trying to build move-ments and rights-based political campaigns. Identity politics has been criti-cised by feminist theorists as emanating from the conservatism and extremeindividualism that began under neo-liberal political regimes from the 1980sonwards (McNeil, 1996 ). Identity politics replaced structural political ana-lysis, and meant that people could claim identities that were seen to arrivefrom the heavens rather than from the power structures of sex, race and class.Identity politics was consonant with the politics of supposedly empoweredconsumerism that this political period represented. Identities, and the para-phernalia that supported them, were consumed, rather than being seen asconstructed out of forces of oppression (Davis, 2011 ). This analysis is wellsuited to many of the identities that have resulted from the setting up of per-sonal blogs through Tumblr and led to online communities of persons whoconsider themselves to have the identities of other races, known as transeth-nics, or to be half human and half animal, therians, or fi ctional characters,fi ctives, or nonhuman, otherkin. The ‘Dragon Man’, O. Scribner, has provideda useful historical map of the development of the otherkin community, forinstance (Scribner, 2012 ). They adopt the political approach of transgender-ism, claiming that they are discriminated against at work for being wolvesor gnomes, and that people do not understand them and marginalise andexclude them. Max Read, in his article for the online magazine Gawker aboutthis phenomenon, quotes a Tumblr personality who seeks to keep up withthe more unusual trends in identity: ‘The relationship between legitimatesocial justice activists and delusional weirdos is ever-changing and gives fas-cinating insights into how activist communities work’ (Read, 2012 ). Onlinesocial activists who have accepted that persons should have human rightsbased on their ‘identities’, rather than on the basis that they are members ofoppressed groups, can have difficulty knowing where to draw the line. Thepolitics of these more unusual identities are based on transgenderism, butthere is considerably more scepticism online about how much respect shouldbe paid to them. Claims by men that they are really women meet with a moresympathetic response than claims by a white woman that she has always beena Korean cat (Read, 2012 ). Transableism, an identity politics of persons who want to have limbs ampu-tated, or their backs broken so that they can be paraplegics, now has quite aconsiderable presence online and some support among medical professionalswho consider that the desire for amputation should be respected and havenamed it Body Integrity Identity Disorder (BIID) (Davis, 2011 ; First andFisher, 2012 ). The medical ethicist, Carl Elliott, argues that in fi fty years’ timeboth transgenderism, and its less respectable cousin, transableism, will bothseem shocking and retrograde (Eliott, 2000, 2003 ). As he says, ‘Fifty yearsago the suggestion that tens of thousands of people would someday wanttheir genitals surgically altered so that they could change their sex wouldhave been ludicrous’ (Elliott, 2003 : 230). In another fi fty years the culturalconditions may once again not be sympathetic to the idea of transgenderismor to BIID. The idea that bodies should be altered by the medical professionas a matter of ‘right’, because their owners consider they would prefer to beanother sex or to have a disability, will likely seem extraordinary and seriouslyharmful.It is puzzling that men who claim to be women have achieved so muchmore public acceptance and legal support, when those engaging in activ-ities that are not necessarily very diff erent are not receiving such affirm-ation. It is likely to be the acceptance of the essential nature of genderthat creates the nest bed for the acceptance of transgenderism. The ideaof ‘gender’, because it is seen as natural and necessary and indeed under-writes the social formation of male dominant societies, can be understoodas acceptable even when it appears in unusual places or persons. Gender inany form is more acceptable and understandable than the absence of gen-der. The removal of arms and legs, self-castration and voluntary blindnessare not supported by such a profoundly embedded belief system and can beidentifi ed as unreasonable, in a way that the pursuit of body modifi cation tocreate a simulacrum of womanhood on a male body is not.Feminism and the end of genderIf the growing new wave of feminism has more success in challenging theedifi ce of gender than previous stages in women’s emancipation have had,transgenderism will disappear. ‘Gender diff erence’ is both based upon andused to explain women’s material inequality. When that inequality is chal-lenged, the requirement that women should behave as subordinates will beundermined too, because the fact that women take up little space and keeptheir knees together is the appearance correlate of the fact that they makeonly two-thirds of the money that a man does in his lifetime. When womenare not under pressure to wear the clothing of subordinates, then their attire will have less appeal to men’s masochism, and the variety of transgenderismthat results from men’s interest in cross-dressing will have no rationale. Atpresent appearance norms for women represent their lower status and thusconstraint, inability to move easily through high heels, revelation of fl esh,shaving and painting signify womanhood and off er to men all the delightsof self-abasement when they adopt them. Cross-dressing by men will notmake sense in a future when fl at shoes and trousers can be worn by eithersex, and there is no clothing redolent of subordination that supplies the thrillof submission.The new wave of feminism promises greater movement towards a futurethat is not so tightly structured around the worship of aggressive masculinityand the institution of heterosexuality, and this may make it less imperativefor those men who presently transgender to avoid being homosexual to doso. It may remove the social stigma that propels them to change their bodiesin order to love the same sex. For lesbians and other women who seek toavoid the low wages, social denigration and enforced humiliation of becom-ing ‘feminine’, and who may want to love other women without social disap-proval, greater sex equality will remove the motivation to transition. A worldin which there is less violence by men towards girls and women will provideless reason for women to wish to vacate the female bodies in which they havebeen abused. Being a girl or woman will not be a liability.But the new wave of feminism must confront new challenges. Transgenderactivists are waging a struggle for the survival of their ideology, which involvesonline abuse and campaigns of harassment, public assaults upon feministsand campaigns to prevent feminist freedom of speech and association. Theopponents are mostly men who consider they are really women, and in male-dominated societies, men are powerful and have authority. Their sexual pro-clivities are protected, so that pornography and prostitution are preserved bygovernments to seduce male citizens and acquire their votes. Male sexualinterests created out of women’s subordination are zealously respected. Butthe new wave of feminism must confront new challenges from the med-ical and institutional support of gender, too. Support for transgenderism isgovernment policy in the UK (Equality and Human Rights Commission,n.d.). In a science fi ction twist, the state now oversees the construction andmaintenance of sex role stereotypes, through the UK legislation in which apanel of experts adjudicates on the ‘gender’ of applicants for ‘gender recog-nition certifi cates’ (Jeff reys, 2008 ). This is a long way from the heady days ofthe 1970s, when the feminist project was to eliminate what were then calledsex roles. State policy is now wedded to the construction of ‘gender’ and themost insulting caricatures of womanhood, to the extent of accepting thatthese should be infl icted upon children, through guidelines on transgenderchildren from the UK’s National Health Service. I can remember in the early s when I was in the National Union of Teachers women’s group inManchester, UK, that our foremost task was the removal of sex role stereo-typing from school textbooks. Janet, we considered, should not be restrictedto helping her mother in the kitchen while John got to tinker with the familycar. All that optimism seems a long time ago now. States, legislatures, muchof the feminist academy, and lesbian and gay organisations are involved in agender protection racket. The new wave of feminist activism that seeks toabolish gender is on a direct collision course with the protection of gender.There will be interesting times ahead.