The most expert cosmetics salesper-son at the upscale department storeT in my neighborhood is a man. A female friend told me about him and, intrigued, I went to see him. He was young, tall, and African American, and his head was shaven. His fingernails were long and covered with clear nail polish. I watched him as he helped a woman choose the right makeup. After he was done with her, I introduced myself. He was slightly taken aback that I, a psychologist, wanted to meet him, but he also appeared slightly flattered. He told me his name was Edwin.Knowing his occupation and observing him briefly and superficially were sufficient, together, for me to guess confidently about aspects of Edwin’s life that he never mentioned. I know what he was like as a boy. I know what kind of person he is sexually attracted to. I know what kinds of activities interest him and what kinds do not. I am least sure what he will look like five years from now. Based upon his ixxcurrent appearance, there is a chance he will undergo a dramatic change.Although I am virtually certain that my conclusions are correct, they fly in the face of mainstream academic opinion. If a current textbook discussed the basis of my intuitions—which many people share—it would do so in the context of stereotypes. It would neglect to explain that my intuitions are probably correct, and it wouldn’t discuss why. My book aims to do better.Edwin is a feminine man, one of the most feminine men I have ever met. Any reasonable person who met him would agree with me, unless that person’s only source of knowledge was a contemporary social science textbook. The textbook would say that concepts like“femininity” and “masculinity” are hopelessly muddled concepts that have more to do with the observer than the observed. Presumably its author would disapprove of using the word “feminine.” It would be amusing to hear such a person trying to describe Edwin without it.Scientifically, we have begun a renaissance period for taking femininity and masculinity seriously. This is partly because of men like Edwin, and partly because of boys like Edwin was. I do not ask Edwin about his childhood because I do not need to. I already know that Edwin played with dolls and loathed football, that his best friends were girls. I know that he was often teased by other boys, who called him “sissy.” I am fairly certain that his parents did not encourage his feminine behavior, and if I had to bet, I’d say that his father was unhappy about it. The source of Edwin’s femininity can be no obvious social influence. It might be a more subtle social influence, or it might be inborn. The fascinating question of what causes Edwin’s femininity can be asked only if we admit that femininity exists.Although I didn’t ask him, I know that Edwin likes to have sexxiwith men. Not all gay men are like Edwin, but almost all men like Edwin are gay. During the past twenty-five years, social scientists have tried to discount or minimize the relation between male homosexuality and femininity. The standard lecture is that sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender role behavior are separate, independent psychological traits; a feminine man is as likely to be straight as gay.But the standard lecture is wrong. It was written with good, but mistaken, intentions: to save gay men from the stigma of femininity. The problem is that most gay men are feminine, or at least they are feminine in certain ways. A better solution is to disagree with those who stigmatize male femininity. It is a false and shallow diversity that allows only differences that cannot be observed.To say that femininity and homosexuality are closely bound together in men may be politically incorrect, but it is factually correct, and it has been known for a long time. The idea that some males are“women’s souls in men’s bodies” was originally offered in 1868 to explain gay men, not transsexuals (by Karl Ulrichs, who was describing men like himself). Because the idea has been “off limits” among scientists for several decades, there is a host of fascinating phenomena well known to gay men and their friends that have barely been touched by scientists: the gay voice, the gay gesture, and prejudice against “femmes,” to name a few. Scientifically demonstrating that these phenomena exist has been easy. The next step will be to try to understand why.There is some chance that if I ever see Edwin again, his name and appearance will be changed to those of a woman. Even for a gay man, Edwin’s appearance and manner are exceedingly feminine. He would stand out in a gay bar. (But he’d receive little romantic attention there.) He is near the boundary of male and female, and someday he may cross it. If he does, one primary motive will be lust.The attempt to separate sexuality from gender has been especiallyxiimisleading for transsexualism. Supposedly, male-to-female transsexuals are motivated solely by the deep-seated feeling that they have women’s souls. Furthermore, the fact that some transsexuals are sexually attracted to men and others to women allegedly means that sex has nothing to do with it. However, in this case the exception proves the rule. Heterosexual men who want to be women are not naturally feminine; there is no sense in which they have women’s souls. What they do have is fascinating, but even they have rarely discussed it openly.One cannot understand transsexualism without studying transsexuals’ sexuality. Transsexuals lead remarkable sex lives. Those who love men become women to attract them. Those who love women become the women they love. Although transsexuals are cultural hot commodities right now, writers have been either too shallow or too squeamish to give transsexual sexuality the attention it deserves. No longer.This book deals with feminine males and completely ignores masculine females. That was not my original attention. Butch women are fascinating too, and I have studied them. There are many analogies between very masculine women and very feminine men, but there are also important differences. Butch women are not simply the opposite of femme men. Rather than attempting to force them together, I decided to focus on males. Masculine females deserve their own book.Completing this book required substantial assistance from many other people. Several scientists and scholars spent a good deal of their time discussing ideas with me: Ray Blanchard, Khytam Dawood, Anne Lawrence, Simon LeVay, Rictor Norton, Maxine Petersen, Bill Reiner, and Ken Zucker. Anjelica Kieltyka introduced me to the Chicago transsexual community and taught me a great deal by being honest and open. My colleague, Joan Linsenmeier, read the entire manuscriptxiiiand made sure that my thoughts were clear. My editor, Jeff Robbins, at Joseph Henry Press, made my writing better than I could. I am grateful to Daria Cooper for her support while finishing the book.Finally, I would never have thought of this book without Leslie Ryan and Cher Mondavi, both courageous women, in their own, different, ways.Part IThe Boy Who WouldBe PrincessI t started with the shoes. After Danny Ryan became a proficient walker,not much more than a year old, heventured into his mom’s closet. He came out with a pair of strappy heels and struggled to put them on. Bemused, she helped him, and when he stood up in them, grasping her hand, he bounced with joy.This became something of a preoccupation for Danny. Often when he came into the bedroom, he went right for the closet. When it was closed, he pressed up against the door and whined. When she indulged him, he would pick out a pair of shoes, preferring the more feminine styles. One day, Danny came into the room with a sheet over his head and ran straight for the closet. He seemed more eager than usual to try on her shoes, and when he stood up in them and spread his arms, she was startled to realize, at last, the meaning of the sheet. It represented a dress. Danny was trying to dress like a girl.Although Leslie Ryan felt intellectually satisfied with that simple explanation of Danny’s behavior, she began to feel uneasy too. When she contemplated the reasons for her concern, she realized guiltily that she was falling prey to the same attitudes held by the bullies she loathed in junior high. It is surely common and harmless for children to explore the clothes and activities that society had assigned to the other sex. Why shouldn’t they? Still, she found herself hesitating when Danny asked for help putting on her shoes. She encouraged alternative activities, such as reading or assembling puzzles or playing with the toys he was given. This tactic worked for a while, but invariably, he returned to the closet. She decided that she would neither encourage nor discourage his cross-dressing, as she had begun to call it.However, when Danny’s father, Patrick, first saw Danny in high heels clutching a purse, he did not share Leslie’s tolerant attitude. He raised his voice: “Danny, get out of those shoes!” Danny liked neither his father’s tone nor his message and, after a moment of stunned silence, began to cry. Leslie shot her husband a scathing glance and immediately picked Danny up to soothe him. Later, Danny’s parents had a heated discussion. Danny’s father said that it made him feel “creepy” to see Danny dressed as a female and thought that allowing him to do so set the wrong example. Patrick believed that parents are an important influence on whether a child becomes homosexual or heterosexual, and he wanted a heterosexual son. Leslie insisted that trying on female clothing at age 18 months could not make Danny a gay man, that children like to pretend to be lots of things, and that Patrick should just relax. She dared not tell him how often Danny was cross-dressing.Patrick’s consulting job kept him on the road nearly five days a week, and when he was home, he was not the most attentive father. Leslie hoped that Danny’s fascination with women’s clothes would pass before his father had a chance to see it again. And for a while this seemed possible.By age two, Danny had begun to follow his mother everywhere as she went about her daily routine, from cooking in the kitchen to dusting the living room, to talking on the phone to peeing in thebathroom. When she tried to get some time alone by turning on one of Danny’s favorite videos ( The Little Mermaid was his absolute favorite), Danny insisted that she watch with him. When other adults were around, Danny was particularly clingy. Once a friend brought over her rambunctious three-year-old son, and Danny was terrified of him.When the two boys were left alone together, Danny began calling“Mommy! Mommy!,” ran to her, and buried his head between her legs. His mother did not remember Danny’s older sister, Mary (now six and in school), being so afraid of being separated from her.When Danny was about two and a half, he discovered his sister’s room, with its dolls, dress-up clothes, pretend make-up kits, and especially, the tutu that she had long outgrown and that was only a bit too large on him. Mary rapidly lost patience with Danny’s intrusions into her room and his fascination with her feminine things. She did not share her mother’s reluctance to judge Danny’s girlish behavior: “No Danny! Dresses are for girls. You are a boy.” These altercations left Danny weeping in frustration and Mary furious, and so their parents framed the controversy in terms of territory and forbade Danny to enter Mary’s room without permission. As a concession to Danny, his mother bought him his own Barbie doll and gingerly took his side when Mary criticized his feminine choices: “Danny can play with dolls if he wants to, as long as he stays away from yours. Everybody’s different.”During the year after Danny’s third birthday, his mother hired a regular babysitter for the afternoons in order to take an art history class. The sitter, Jennifer, was an attractive college student, a sorority girl who loved both children and fashion, and both Danny and Mary quickly idolized her. Leslie briefed her on Danny’s unique behavior and reassured her that it was okay to indulge him. Soon Jennifer (at Danny’s urging) was painting Danny’s fingernails and letting him wear her bracelet. She introduced him to Barbie online, a website where they could dress up Barbie in an assortment of outfits. They also played“Princess Danielle,” with Danny the princess and Jennifer the prince,wizard, king, or whatever male role the drama at hand required. Alternatively, they would produce sequels to Aladdin (with Danny playing the role of Jasmine), or Beauty and the Beast (with Danny playing Belle), or the latest video fascination with a beautiful female protagonist. Jennifer was amused to think that she had found a playmate so feminine that even she was relegated to the male role—and that this playmate was a boy.It was about this time that Danny’s parents had their second“Danny crisis.” Patrick found Danny playing with his Barbie while wearing his sister’s tutu, and furiously snatched the doll away. Then he picked up Danny, who was frightened, and carried him to the living room, where he accused Danny’s mother “Look what your son is doing!” As she looked at their faces—Danny’s ashen with fear and her husband’s red with rage—Leslie felt her heart sink. She reached out for Danny, who practically leapt to her from his father and immediately began to cry loudly. She took him to his room and laid him on his bed, told him that she loved him and would be back in a little while, and returned to the living room to face her husband. In the ensuing discussion, she had to admit that Danny was cross-dressing regularly, but she thought that he was merely “going through a phase.”She made her husband realize how devastated Danny was by the scene, and she saw his anger transform into guilty regret.This was the last time they fought about Danny. After that day, the Ryans seemed to work out a silent compromise, in which Leslie tried to keep Danny’s feminine side from her husband, and he let Danny alone. Danny helped, because he seemed to understand that his father was not as receptive as his mother to his feminine activities. Sometimes, despite their unspoken efforts, Patrick saw something not intended for his eyes—for example, Danny playing with Barbie. Although Patrick no longer stopped Danny or criticized him, these moments were usually awkward and tense. Danny would hesitate, as if he thought he might get in trouble, until Patrick left or looked away.Patrick would become cold and quiet, and Leslie would become especially attentive to him. But no one spoke up about Danny.During Danny’s fourth year, he “came out” to his block, going outside to play with the neighborhood kids, wearing or bringing whatever he wanted. Unlike his sister, the younger kids did not give him a hard time at first although some commented, “He’s wearing girl’s clothes.” Danny gravitated toward the girls, who accepted him as a skilled participant in their activities, but he became visibly anxious when boys started playing rough around him, as they typically did. As the other boys began to shout, shoot each other with toy guns, and collide with each other, Danny shrank by the side of his guardian, usually Jennifer or his mother.On his fourth birthday Danny had a party attended by several neighborhood kids and their mothers, his sister, Jennifer, and his mother. He wore his tutu, a bridal veil he had recently persuaded his mother to buy him, and black patent leather shoes that his sister had outgrown. Jennifer did his nails and fixed his hair (with a bow), and Danny was radiant. His gifts included a baseball bat and glove and a toy car (his mother and perhaps Danny too wondered why anyone would give these to him), some puzzles and books, a doll, a toy makeup kit, and, best of all, a charm bracelet from Jennifer. Leslie realized that the other mothers probably saw Danny as odd, but no one remarked about his outfit or the unusual gifts. Danny was ecstatic. He was on top of the world, happier than he would be for a long time.Danny’s fifth year was a turning point, the year of unhappy awareness. This was the year that other children, his mother, and Danny himself began to realize that his behavior was not only unusual, but also in some sense unacceptable. It was the year that Danny learned how cruelly our world can treat boys like him.A new family with two older boys, ages 8 and 11, moved in down the street. The first time the boys met Danny, he was playing house with several girls. They studied him with increasing amazement before pronouncing him a “sissy” and a “fag,” and they laughed at him deri-sively. Stunned, Danny ran home to his mother, who calmly explained to him the meaning of these words. Seeing the tears in his eyes as he struggled with the “sissy” accusation—after all, he does like girls’things—she was both furious at the boys and heartbroken for Danny.She realized that to that point, he had had an easy time with his femininity and that even if she could still intervene with these particular boys, there would be others with whom she couldn’t. When she defined a “fag” to Danny as “a boy who loves other boys,” Danny protested, “But I don’t even like boys!”Next time Danny went to play at the house where the boys had harassed him, his mother made sure she accompanied him. This prevented a repeat—the boys knew enough not to be mean to Danny in front of her—but it could not reverse serious damage to Danny’s social situation. For one, she could not always be with him, and whenever Danny was on his own and saw his detractors, they made sure to tease him: “Fag!” or “Sissy!” or “Danny’s gay!” or “Danny’s a girl!”(Leslie thought it ironic that in other times and circumstances, the latter accusation would have made Danny happy.) Even more disturbing was the response of the other children, who began to question Danny’s play preferences: “Danny, you shouldn’t wear dresses. You’re a boy.” Occasionally, they rejected him outright: “You can’t play with us.” A couple of the older girls often protected Danny and scolded the others for picking on him, but the damage had been done. Even when Danny was allowed to play, there was now tension where before there had been none. Difference that had been ignored now mattered.Leslie seethed with anger at the two boys who had spoiled Danny’s world. She made an indignant phone call to their mother, who apolo-gized, but nothing changed. She had violent fantasies of intimidating them into stopping. But she simultaneously realized that sooner or later Danny was destined to confront intolerance. Even if those boys had never clouded Danny’s life, someone would have. Events soon proved her right.Although Danny strongly preferred the company of girls, he hadbefriended one boy. Martin was not feminine like Danny, but he was on the quiet side, somewhat passive, and not rough. He didn’t mind taking orders from Danny or playing the roles that Danny cast him in, which were, after all, invariably male roles. Danny’s parents were pleased that he had found a male friend. Once Martin spent the night, and Danny spent several hours at Martin’s one day the next week.Soon Danny asked his mother if he could have Martin over again.Leslie called Martin’s parents to arrange something, and Martin’s mother sounded strange as she said, “You need to talk to Martin’s dad.”Martin’s father stammered a bit but otherwise sounded forceful as he explained: “We have a problem with the way that Danny plays. Last time he was here, he wanted to be the wife and he got Martin to play the husband. We don’t think that’s something our son should be a part of. So for now, I don’t think that Martin and Danny should play together.” She couldn’t bear to tell Danny the truth and so told him that Martin was sick. When she told Danny’s father later, she broke down sobbing to think of her son, four and a half years old, banned from his best friend’s company.It was becoming increasingly clear to Leslie that she would have to take a more active role in helping Danny negotiate his increasingly difficult world. She had never liked the idea of squashing Danny’s feminine interests. Rather, she decided to help him become aware of the potential consequences of his choices. The outstanding issue, she decided, was cross-dressing in public. And so the next time Danny wanted to go outside wearing his tutu, his mother stopped him, “I don’t think you should wear that, Danny.”“Why?”“Because if you do, the other kids might be mean to you.”“But I want to.”“I don’t think you should.”“Why?”“I just told you. If you want to wear that, fine, but only in here. If you want to go outside, I want you to change into jeans.”By this time, Danny was crying and ran into his room slamming the door after him. She knew that she had hurt him, but what choice did she have? Could a four and a half-year-old boy reconcile the fact that there is nothing wrong with his strongest preferences with the conflicting fact that he must nevertheless hide them from most of the world? Could she reconcile these facts in her own mind?Halloween approached, and she dreaded the unavoidable confrontation. When Leslie took her children to the store to get costumes, Mary chose Jasmine (from Aladdin). Initially, Danny tried to choose the same costume, but his mother said no. Danny thought her refusal meant that he should choose a different costume from his sister’s. But when he selected a princess costume, his mother said, “I don’t think that’s best, honey,” and suggested a cowboy costume. Disappointment flashed in his face, followed by shame. They eventually resolved that he would be a magician with top hat and cape and wand, but she had no illusions that this was Danny’s first choice.Danny asked for a bicycle for his fifth birthday, and they went to pick one out. Danny immediately chose a pink bike with streamers, and with Barbie painted on it. His mother said that this was probably not the best choice and tried to steer him toward a plain bike in blue or red or green. This time, however, Danny was in no mood to compromise. In the end, he chose not to get a bike at all rather than get one he did not want.Leslie became increasingly sad and worried about Danny and believed she was depressed. She decided to go to a psychiatrist who described himself as “psychodynamically oriented” and she told him all about Danny. The psychiatrist also wanted to know about her marriage, her own family, and her childhood. He seemed to focus on the period around the time when Danny was born, a period she had tried to forget. She had become depressed about her job. She found accounting unrewarding, but she had invested so much time and effortin taking courses and passing exams to be an accountant. Would she have to abandon her career goals to become a housewife? For the first year or so after Danny was born, she had been unenergetic and was not the attentive mother she should have been to either child. Gradually, she had accepted that being a homemaker to young children is a valuable job in itself, and that abandoning a career in accounting hardly made her a failure. Her energy returned, and she became a better mother to her children.After a couple of months, the psychiatrist told her that he had reached an understanding of her case. He explained that Danny’s feminine behavior was a direct consequence of her being unavailable to him during his first year—that because she was an absent mother, Danny had reconstructed a substitute woman in himself. Although he did not say so outright, it was clear that the psychiatrist believed that Danny’s atypical behavior was all her fault. His primary recommendation was that she continue in psychotherapy with him, perhaps increasing to two visits a week. This feedback provoked a mixture of feelings in her. She had always felt guilty about her maternal behavior during this time and was now being confronted with the likelihood that, indeed, she had harmed her child. At the same time, something about the psychiatrist’s formulation seemed a bit of a stretch to her.Can children really resort to such complicated solutions to their conflicts? At one year of age? And how is her psychotherapy going to help Danny cope with the intolerant reactions of other people?She sought a school psychologist for a second opinion, thinking that a school psychologist had probably encountered boys like Danny and would have practical advice, especially because Danny was about to start kindergarten. She told their story to the school psychologist, who wrote a report. When the psychologist summarized the report to Leslie, she seemed more harshly judgmental than she had been during the interview. Giving Danny Barbies and letting him cross-dress were“inappropriate parenting behavior,” she said. Danny’s parents had been“neither willing nor able to set reasonable limits” on his femininestrivings, the report continued. The psychologist advised that if immediate steps were not taken, Danny faced social ostracism and would probably develop “a homosexual preference.” Although this was certainly not the first time Leslie had considered his future sexual orientation, it was the first time that someone else had mentioned the issue so directly. She did not like the way the psychologist seemed to assume that homosexuality would be a bad outcome. In her own mind, the issue was more complicated—she wanted Danny to be happy, and if he could be both happy and gay, she would love and accept him all the same. And compared with Danny’s current predicament, homosexuality seemed a minor consideration. By the time the school psychologist finished presenting her report, Leslie was in tears. Noticing this, the psychologist said: “I understand that this is difficult for you to hear, but we both want what is best for Danny.”Around this time, Leslie learned something about her family that she felt must be relevant. Her 40-year-old brother, Mark, called to say that he was divorcing his wife because he was gay. Mark said that he had recognized homosexual feelings in himself from childhood and had had sex with men beginning in adolescence and even through his marriage. But he had felt “Catholic guilt” and tried, at least intermit-tently, to suppress his gay feelings. After falling in love with a man, Mark realized that he could never be happy unless he followed his heart, and this required self-acceptance. Leslie was stunned by his revelation but managed to reassure her brother that it would not hurt their relationship. Later, discussing this with her own mother, she made a connection. She asked her mother whether Mark had been a feminine boy. Her mother, who knew about Danny, revealed that, indeed, he had been. When Mark was very young, he liked dolls and even cross-dressed a couple of times. Their father had disliked these behaviors and wouldn’t allow them. He had worried that Mark was becoming a sissy and made him play sports, which Mark detested. She hadn’t mentioned this before because Mark seemed ashamed to be reminded of his feminine past, and so she didn’t want to bring it up. She hadalways assumed that because Mark “outgrew” this behavior, Danny would also. Leslie could not believe that the similarity between Danny and Mark was merely a coincidence, but if not, what did it mean? Was there something about their family that produced feminine boys? A gene perhaps? Would Danny become a gay man, like Mark?Kindergarten started off well enough. Leslie met with Danny’s teacher a week before school began. She said that Danny was “special,”and then explained how. The teacher insisted that she would not permit other children to give Danny a hard time, and her attitude was confident and reassuring.Leslie also talked to Danny, in order to prepare him. As delicately as she could, she suggested that Danny not talk to the other children about “girl stuff ” for the time being, that Danny shouldn’t bring dolls or girls’ toys to school. She took Danny to Nordstrom to pick out clothes for the first day of school. With her guidance, they selected a red Ralph Lauren polo shirt (with the polo logo), navy khakis (pleated and cuffed), and black tasseled loafers. Danny looked proud when the salesman said, “You’re going to be the best dressed boy in your school.”They had a bit of a conflict about Danny’s lunchbox. He went straight for a lavender Aladdin and Jasmine number, but she sadly refused. She saw a blue one, featuring Aladdin and the genie, and Danny objected, disappointed that there was no Jasmine. They settled, eventually, on a red Aladdin version, sans Jasmine.Leslie had been dreading the moment when she dropped Danny off at class the first time. He had always been unusually attached to her, and this separation would be for several hours in a new, potentially scary, environment. They had discussed various scenarios that concerned him: what if he got sick at school, what if she forgot to pick him up, what if he got lost in the building. But at the moment of truth in early September, Danny gave her a quick hug, said “Bye,” and marched in. Leslie watched for a moment, then turned on her heel and rushed out of the room so that Danny wouldn’t see her cry.The first day was a short one, for orientation purposes, and three hours later she anxiously re-entered the room and Danny ran to her smiling. She felt immensely relieved. Maybe this could work. Maybe it was even good for Danny. And for a while, it seemed so.Then one afternoon about a month later, Leslie was called to pick Danny up from school early. He had had a problem during recess, and he had been crying nonstop ever since. When she picked him up, he fell into her arms, and he couldn’t stop sobbing long enough to explain what had happened. She took him home, and all he wanted to do was sit in her lap quietly and watch television, periodically wailing and crying, while she soothed him, quietly insisting that everything was okay. Eventually, he calmed down enough to tell her what had happened.He had been playing with some girl friends on the playground.Suddenly, a group of boys swooped in, shoved him to the ground, and for good measure, a large one jumped on him, knocking the wind out of him. Leslie could imagine just how he felt, because she believed she felt the same way: betrayed for no apparent reason, with no warning.She wondered if this was some kind of random careless act or if they had specifically targeted Danny. She also wondered how Danny’s behavior had registered with the other kids. His teacher had seemed sympathetic but surprised at how Danny had reacted. The next morning before dropping him off, she assured Danny that he would be safe.That afternoon, she learned that things had only gotten worse. At recess three boys followed him around calling him “girlfriend,” “fairy,”and “faggot,” until he latched onto the teacher and she scolded them.Leslie arranged to talk to the teacher, who said she was angry with the offending boys and promised to protect Danny. But she added:“I’m concerned that Danny is doing some things that make other kids dislike him. He’s bossy and demanding. He tells the girls he plays with what they have to do and say. He tattles. And when other kids tease him, instead of ignoring them, he talks back to them in ways that egg them on. The other day, someone called him a girl, and he said: ‘I’drather be a girl than a stupid ugly boy.’ On the one hand, I admired his chutzpah, but on the other hand, I knew that this would only make things harder for him.” Leslie’s hopes for Danny’s easy adjustment to kindergarten were destroyed.Danny no longer wanted to go to school, but his mother managed to get him there anyway. She considered any uneventful day a good day. Whenever anything happened, it was usually bad. He had become an outcast at school, and he also seemed to enjoy his life outside of school less. She worried that he was depressed. When she raised the possibility of taking Danny to a therapist (“to talk to about things that bother you”), he initially resisted. He assumed that the therapist would want to talk only about his femininity, and he was ashamed and defensive. But his mother reassured him that he could talk about whatever he wanted, and that she didn’t want to change him. He eventually agreed to see a child psychologist, who in turn gave Leslie the name of a therapist she could see for the depression that she felt returning.Current events gave Leslie one more concern. A teacher in one of the wealthy suburbs made all the newspapers because he ended one school year as a man and began the next as a woman. Danny found out—one of the kids at school told him that he should follow suit—and was very interested. (“What happened to his penis? Can she have babies? Is she pretty?”) Transsexualism had always been in the back of Leslie’s mind, albeit distantly, but Danny’s reaction made her more anxious. Even if she could handle Danny becoming gay, the possibility that he would get surgery to become a woman was not something she could tolerate.I n spring of 1996 Leslie Ryan came to my Northwestern University office to seek yet another opinion. Jen-nifer, Danny’s sitter, was a student in my human sexuality class and was working in my laboratory on studies of sexual orientation. I had lectured in class and spoken in lab meetings about feminine boys, and Jennifer thought that I might be able to give Leslie more definitive answers than those she had obtained thus far. Danny’s mother had three general questions: Most importantly, What is the best way to raise feminine boys to be happy boys? For the sake of curiosity, Where do boys like Danny come from? For the sake of both curiosity and helping Danny, What becomes of feminine boys? I could easily answer only one of her questions. I have a good idea what Danny will be like when he grows up.Leslie insisted to me that she would love Danny no less if he grew up to be gay. At the same time, she was curious whether he would, and she also realistically thought that his life would be more difficult if he were gay. And she knew that Danny’s father desperately wanted Danny to grow into a heterosexual man.Many people believe that feminine boys become gay men. When Danny was only three, the Ryans had discussed the possibility that he might become gay. Of course, the children who had tormented Danny—calling him “fag”—were already convinced that Danny was gay. That was undoubtedly why they wanted to torment him. Most people Leslie has confided in have also broached the issue with her.They seemed to be divided between two general opinions. Some people recognized that the belief that feminine boys become gay is a stereotype and so rejected it the same way they rejected most stereotypes, which, they felt, are the product of unenlightened thinking.Others wondered if there might well be something to the idea—just as many people speculate (most often in private) about the truth of other stereotypes. Social scientists have studied what becomes of boys like Danny, and it is the one question about the boys that they have effectively answered, one area in which even responsible social scientists can give an answer that is more than a highfalutin’ way of saying “I don’t know.”Several scientists have followed nearly 100 feminine boys from childhood into early adulthood. Because of their work, we can make educated predictions regarding Danny’s adult sexuality. Most likely, Danny will become a gay man. It is also possible, although less likely, that he will grow up to be heterosexual. The final possible outcome is that Danny will decide to become a woman, and in this case, he will also be attracted to men.The largest, most famous, and best study on this issue was conducted by Richard Green, then a psychiatrist at UCLA. Green began with 66 feminine boys, mostly referred by therapists. He also recruited a control group of 56 typically masculine boys. The boys’ average agewas about seven years old when Green first saw them, although some were as young as four and others were as old as twelve.The feminine boys exhibited a variety of feminine behaviors:• Cross-dressing: Nearly 70 percent did this frequently, compared to none of the boys in the control group.• Playing with dolls: More than 50 percent did this frequently, compared to less than 5 percent of the control group.• Taking female roles in games such as playing house: Nearly percent took the female role, compared to none of the control group.• Relating better to girls rather than boys as peers: About percent did so, compared to less than 5 percent of the control group.• Wishing to be girls: More than 80 percent stated such a wish occasionally, compared to less than 10 percent of the control group.• Having below-average interest in rough-and-tumble play and sports participation: Nearly 80 percent had below-average interest, compared to 20 percent of the control group.These were clearly two very different groups of boys, and the feminine group was on the extreme side. Danny showed 5 of the behaviors; he has never expressed outright the wish to be a girl.The boys’ parents reported that their sons’ feminine behaviors emerged quite early. For instance, more than half of them said that cross-dressing had begun before age 3 and virtually all cross-dressing began by age 6. Parents varied considerably in their initial reactions to the feminine behavior. Some parents were horrified and intolerant.Others seemed to have found the behavior cute, at least at first. They showed Green photographs of their sons wearing high-heeled shoes and dresses, and they admitted that they had bought their sons dolls.Mothers who remembered reacting more positively had sons who were slightly more feminine at the time Green first saw them. However, this effect was small, and one wonders how much mothers’memories might be biased by their sons’ present behavior. Leslie’s ini-tial reaction was neither positive nor negative. Although emotionally she was more concerned than delighted, her overt response to Danny was to tolerate his femininity, if not to encourage it.Green tried to stay in touch with the boys as they became teenagers and adults. At the final follow-up he collected data from about two-thirds of the boys—it is practically impossible to maintain contact with subjects in long-term studies such as Green’s. On average, the boys were 19 years old during their final interviews, the youngest being 14 and the oldest 24.The results of Green’s study are among the clearest and the most striking in all of developmental psychology. About 75 percent of the young men who had been feminine boys said that they were attracted to men, compared with only one young man who had been a typical, masculine boy. The odds against these results being due to chance are astronomical.The other 25 percent of the young men who had begun as feminine boys denied attraction to men. Green does not seem very skeptical about these denials, but I am. For one, the 25 percent who claimed to be heterosexual were three years younger, on average, than the percent who admitted attraction to men. Coming out as gay to others, or even to oneself, sometimes takes time, and it is likely that at least some of the 25 percent who claimed to be heterosexual would eventually become gay men. Green himself wrote of some subjects who denied homosexuality at earlier ages and then admitted later that they had not been completely honest. It is conceivable that every one of the feminine boys grew up to be attracted to men. I am not arguing strongly that this is true—we simply do not know.At his final interview, Todd, one of the young men from the feminine group, said he wanted to become a woman. Nothing clearly distinguished Todd’s childhood from that of the other feminine boys. His parents reacted negatively to his femininity. His father, in particular, was angry about it, sometimes telling Todd to stop and sometimes ignoring his cross-dressing and playing with dolls. At puberty, as Toddbegan to mature physically, he realized that he wanted to do so in the female direction. He was somewhat small for his age. At age 17 he said that he wished he had breasts and a vagina and, although he knew it was impossible, wished he could give birth. He was attracted only to men. At his final interview at age 18, he said that his mother had given him a book about Christine Jorgensen, the first person ever to have a sex change operation, and he had become obsessed with it.We don’t know whether Todd ever became a woman, but let’s assume he did. It might seem that if only one of the feminine boys grew up to be transsexual, then being a feminine boy is not very strongly related to adult transsexualism. But transsexualism is a very rare outcome; in Western countries, only about 1 in 12,000 males undergoes a sex change. Even if Todd was the only one, the rate of transsexualism among the feminine boys was about 400 times higher than we would expect in the general population. And conceivably some of the feminine boys Green lost touch with became transsexual—feminine boys who become transsexuals are often estranged from their families and so are more difficult to contact. Some other scientists believe that Green’s transsexualism rate was on the low side, although no one believes that transsexualism is nearly as common an outcome as homosexuality is.When I told Leslie about the prospective data on boys like Danny, she said that she didn’t care that he will probably become gay, that she only wanted him to be happy. I believed her, but in any case, her attitude is sensible. There is no reason to believe that we could alter Danny’s future sexual orientation even if we tried. Several boys in Green’s sample were treated for their feminine behavior, sometimes by therapists who believed that homosexuality would be a bad outcome.But the rate of homosexuality among the treated boys was no different than among the others.Still, she worried how she should act toward Danny, what wouldhelp him have the happiest possible life. Should she accept his feminine tendencies completely and indulge his atypical desires? Should she have bought him the Barbie bike? Or should she do the opposite, firmly and consistently discourage the behavior that has led him to ostracism? Should she even discourage his private sex-atypical behavior—throw out his girls’ clothes, for example?Increasingly, Leslie felt torn. When she tolerated Danny’s girl-like behavior, she did so uncomfortably, wondering whether she was being overly tolerant. After all, children don’t get to do everything they want to do. They don’t get to eat candy, stay up late, or stay home from school whenever they want. Was she failing Danny by not setting firm limits on behavior that was ultimately self-destructive? But when she did set limits, she felt more than just discomfort. When she saw the disappointment, anger, and shame in Danny’s eyes, invariably followed by tears, she felt heartbroken. At those moments she wanted to tell him that she loved him just as he was, that he should do whatever made him happy, that she would always protect him from the reactions of others. But she knew this was impossible.If she knew that in the long run Danny’s happiness would be maximized by the short-term misery of squashing his femininity, she could do it. Or if the opposite were true—that Danny would be happiest if allowed to flourish in his own way, and that preventing this would only damage him—her inner conflict would cease; if she only knew what to do.Unfortunately for Leslie, psychologists don’t always know what is best, and we probably will not know for the foreseeable future. However, it is conceptually simple to design a scientific study to answer the question. First, identify a group of boys like Danny. Next, randomly assign them to be treated differently, with half the boys being indulged and the other half discouraged in their femininity. Follow them into adolescence and on to adulthood, and see if they differ in their outcome. However, besides taking years to complete, such a study would require that parents be indifferent to having their feminine boysassigned to either of two radically different treatments, with the possibility of harm. (Of course, parents’ actions may already be harming the boys, but at least the parents themselves are choosing how to treat them.) It would also require serious research funding, to pay therapists and researchers, but the issue has become the kind of ideological battle-ground that funding agencies do not like to touch.So I do not know what to tell Danny’s mother about the best way to treat Danny. I can only tell her what several experts, who have studied and treated boys like Danny, recommend, and why. Unfortunately, the experts disagree among themselves, some of them passionately so. Indeed, the controversy concerning what to do about children like Danny has become one of psychiatry’s hottest potatoes.According to the current Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of the American Psychiatric Association ( DSM-IV-TR)—which represents a kind of official list of mental disorders—Danny has a mental illness: childhood gender identity disorder (or GID for short). “Gender identity”refers to the subjective internal feeling that one is male or female.Most of us rarely, if ever, think about our gender identities. But if we imagined that others were treating us as the opposite sex—insisted that we were the opposite sex—most could get an idea of the mental anguish a child with GID may feel.To be diagnosed with GID, a boy must meet four major criteria.(These are similar criteria to those for GID girls, although obviously, girls and boys with GID behave nearly oppositely.) First, he must behave in very feminine ways. Second, he must show signs of being unhappy as a boy. Third, his life must be substantially and negatively affected by his symptoms. Fourth, his atypical behavior cannot be due to a known medical syndrome that interferes with sexual differentiation, or the process of becoming male or female. (One example of this would be Kleinfelter’s syndrome, a condition in which boys are born with an extra X chromosome.)The controversy focuses on the first two criteria, and particularly on the second. So let’s look at them more closely. In order to meet the first, behavioral, criterion a boy must show at least four of the following:• A repeatedly stated desire to be, or insistence that he is, a girl• A preference for cross-dressing or simulating female attire• Strong and persistent preferences for female roles in make-believe play or persistent fantasies of being female• An intense desire to participate in stereotypically feminine games and pastimes• A strong preference for female playmates The second major criterion concerns feelings, and in particular gender dysphoria, or discomfort with one’s biological sex. Children are not very articulate about their feelings, and so we often infer their feelings indirectly. The DSM gives a range of behaviors that can provide evidence of gender dysphoria. In boys, the most extreme forms of gender dysphoria include the wish not to have a penis. But a boy can also pass the gender dysphoria hurdle if he shows “aversion toward rough-and-tumble play and rejection of stereotypically male toys, games, and activities.”Regarding the behavioral criteria, Danny has at least 4 of the behaviors. (A few times when he was younger, he playfully insisted that he was a girl. This doesn’t qualify as a “repeatedly stated insistence.”) Regarding gender dysphoria, he has never complained about his penis, but he certainly dislikes rough-and-tumble play and rejects stereotypically male activities. Danny is not even a close call, diagnostically speaking.The current controversy in the mental health professions regarding what to do with boys like Danny is strongly related to attitudes toward the GID diagnosis. Some experts think that it is obvious that boys like Danny have mental problems that need to be treated. In contrast, an emerging group of mostly (but not entirely) gay thinkersbelieve that the childhood GID diagnosis should not exist. They believe that the diagnosis does far more harm than good. The two groups of experts would give very different recommendations to Danny’s mother.Leslie knows about GID, and she unhesitatingly rejects the idea that Danny is mentally ill. But that does not resolve her dilemma, nor does it ease her mind. Danny is not mentally ill because he is feminine, but he is having problems and is too often unhappy, and she does not know how to help him.One approach that some clinicians have taken to boys like Danny is socially conservative. Its most visible advocate is George Rekers, who is a member of the ultra-conservative “Leadership U,” a virtual university on the Web. Rekers is an academic psychologist who held positions at Harvard and the University of California, Los Angeles, before assuming his present position at the University of South Carolina. He has published numerous academic articles and several books, and at one point he was funded by the National Institutes of Health to research the treatment of children with GID. Yet there are disturbing aspects of Rekers’ work that are peculiarly unscientific, such as his writings invoking religious arguments for the superiority of heterosexuality. His assertion that homosexuality is “an unfortunate perversion” was, even in 1982, certainly out of fashion in academia, which tends to be socially liberal. Rekers represents the right wing of gender theorists and therapists.Rekers’ position seems to be essentially the same as that of the National Association for Research and Therapy of Homosexuality (NARTH): homosexuality is inferior sexuality; homosexual people can sometimes be successfully changed into heterosexual people; homosexuality is the result of faulty learning and abnormal family dynamics, so the earlier the intervention the better; feminine boys are sick and at risk for homosexuality; feminine behavior can be elimi-nated the way that many other undesirable behaviors can, by consistent application of reward and punishment.Rekers has published vivid case histories of some of his patients, and perhaps the most interesting was known by the pseudonym“Kraig.” Kraig was especially important because he was a member of Green’s long-term study (Green named him “Kyle”), and so we know something about how Kraig turned out.Kraig entered therapy when he was about five years old. Both his parents were quite worried about, and his father was in fact intolerant of, Kraig’s feminine behavior. At least once prior to therapy his father spanked Kraig for putting female clothes on his stuffed animals. Kraig’s therapy involved the application of behavior-modification principles that are familiar to many psychologists, teachers, and parents. For example, Kraig’s mother was trained to ignore him whenever he displayed feminine behavior. This was initially quite traumatic for both of them. Kraig screamed so loudly in the laboratory during one session that he had to be removed by a laboratory assistant. Kraig was also put on a “token economy,” in which he was given different colored tokens for masculine and feminine behavior. The blue tokens he earned for masculine behavior could be exchanged for treats such as candy bars.The red tokens he earned when he was “bad”—feminine—had bad consequences ranging from loss of blue tokens to loss of television time to the most effective punishment: being spanked by his father.Although training occurred in the laboratory, these techniques were applied in all areas of Kraig’s life, for example, including his choice of male versus female playmates.According to Rekers, after 60 sessions Kraig engaged exclusively in male-typical behavior. Rekers’ treatment team noticed, however, that in the laboratory Kraig seemed to be acting. He would approach the table of toys and say something like “Oh look at those girls’ toys.Yuck. I don’t want to play with those. Where are the good boys’ toys?”Still, Rekers convinced himself that Kraig was a clear success. Indeed, two years after treatment ended, his mother was concerned that Kraighad become too rough and destructive. Rekers advised her that this problem also was treatable and was preferable to the excessive femininity that Kraig initially displayed.Green saw Kraig periodically between the ages of 5 and 18. When Kraig was 17, his mother was interviewed and said she was thankful that he had had the therapy; that without it he would have doubtless become homosexual or worse. Unfortunately, however, the therapy had not rescued Kraig’s relationship with his father, which had only gotten worse. (It seems that Kraig never learned to enjoy hunting with his father and preferred art and theater to sports.) At age 17 Kraig was telling a story similar to his mother’s, indicating his disgust with homosexuality and men who behaved in a feminine way. A year later, however, Kraig admitted that he not only had homosexual feelings but that he had acted on them—with a complete stranger in a restroom in a convention center. He felt in his mind that the experience was “unreal,” and shortly afterwards took an overdose of aspirin. (He survived.) He believed that his parents would be disappointed and upset if they found out that he was not heterosexual. In general, Kraig appeared to be ashamed and deeply conflicted about his homosexuality. But he no longer enjoyed dressing or acting like a girl.Opposite Rekers on the gender political spectrum is a group of increasingly vocal clinicians, writers, and theorists, who believe that boys like Danny are healthy victims of a sick society. They include psychiatrists Richard Isay, Ken Corbett, and Justin Richardson, psychologist Clinton Anderson, scientist Simon LeVay, and journalist Phyllis Burke, author of Gender Shock. (All these individuals are homosexual, but this movement also includes some heterosexual support-ers.) They argue that there is nothing inherently wrong with children who behave like the opposite sex. Most of these writers accept that there is a strong correlation, in boys at least, between early sex-atypicality and later homosexuality. (Burke is an exception.) Becausehomosexuality is normal and healthy, feminine pre-homosexual boys should not be labeled sick any more than gay men should be. (This argument is closely analogous to the one that Rekers uses to generate the conclusion that homosexuality is a form of mental illness.) The problem that feminine boys face is that of an ignorant, intolerant society, a society that allows people to be cruel to them for no good reason. Treating a man or boy for “femininity” does more harm than good.Isay, for example, says that virtually all the gay men he has seen in his clinical practice had some feminine traits in boyhood, and a few of them were sent by their parents for psychological treatment. According to Isay, his gay patients who had been treated during childhood for being prone to cry easily were now uncomfortable with emotional expression. Treated for excessive femininity, they now tried to distance themselves from all things feminine, despite the fact that femininity is part of “their nature.” The result can only be unhealthy inner conflict.LeVay and Burke both point to Rekers’ patient, Kraig, as a kind of poster child of the harm that the GID notion produces. To them, the primary results of Kraig’s treatment were damage to his self-esteem and the crippling of his ability to express his romantic and sexual feelings toward men.A recurring theme among the critics of the childhood gender identity diagnosis is that it includes children who simply do not conform to stereotypes of the other sex, whether or not the children have deeper gender identity problems. In other words, a boy who acts like a girl but is happy being a boy could still earn a diagnosis of GID. Although gender dysphoria is ostensibly a core component of the syndrome, in order to meet the criterion it is sufficient that a boy avoid typical boys’ activities. This would make sense if boys who strongly preferred acting like girls to acting like boys invariably did so because they wanted to be girls and disliked being boys. They think that deep inside, Danny Ryan wants to become a girl, whether or not he says so.The critics of the childhood gender identity diagnosis believe that,often, feminine boys just like to be feminine boys, and no more. Similarly, most of these critics downplay any association between symptoms of childhood GID and later transsexualism. They do not believe that the femininity of boys like Danny implies a fundamental gender dysphoria that typifies transsexual adults. They think that Danny Ryan just likes to act like girls do, but that he would be content being a feminine boy.The anti-GID folks have a logically consistent treatment recommendation: no diagnosis, no treatment. They do not believe that Danny needs psychotherapy to help him become more masculine or satisfied with being a boy. Rather, they believe that most boys with GID—even boys who declare that they are girls—will grow out of it on their own. And they are uniformly horrified by the behavioral techniques applied by Rekers. To be sure, they do not think that boys with GIDhave easy lives, and they do not believe the boys should be ignored.Rather, they want to change society so that feminine boys are treated less badly. I initially was quite skeptical about this position, because it seemed to smack of ideological grandstanding at the expense of feminine boys. Who can really hope to change society? I once challenged LeVay on this, and he told me about a teacher friend of his who had a GID boy in class, and who helped the class come to terms with the boy’s “odd behavior and appearance.” And he reminded me of how dramatically some other societal beliefs had recently changed. So I became less skeptical, if not yet convinced.Ken Zucker, head of the Child and Adolescent Gender Identity Clinic in Toronto, has criticized the right-wing position on GID, and he has recently clashed with the left-wing. Therefore, and perhaps because I find his position especially balanced, I consider him to be the moderate. With his thick gray beard and his contemplative manner, Zucker appears rabbinical. He has certainly acquired a Talmudic knowledge of the literature concerning childhood GID, about whichhe is the world’s leading expert. His book Gender Identity Disorders in Children and Adolescents is surely the most comprehensive text ever written on this topic. To say that Zucker is knowledgeable is an understatement. To say that he is obsessive about certain subjects, including GID and sexual orientation, is only a slight overstatement. I have seen Zucker in academic action for a number of years. He has reviewed my articles, for example, and now he is editor of the prestigious journal, Archives of Sexual Behavior, and decides whether articles should be published there. Invariably, he has pointed out several mistakes in my papers, from omissions of prior research I had been unfamiliar with, to punctuation mistakes in my reference list (!). For this reason, I tend to give Zucker the benefit of the doubt in certain respects. For example, I do not think he is prone to make mistakes due to being uninformed or rushing to decisions. This is not to say that he is always right.So what is Zucker’s position? First, he believes that the diagnosis of childhood GID is useful and valid, and the diagnosis is not merely a value judgment that boys who like girls’ activities (or girls who like boys’ activities) are sick or wrong. This is due to his conviction that children with GID suffer, and that the suffering is not only attribut-able to bullying by closed-minded peers and adults. Second, Zucker thinks that kids with GID often need to be treated with psychotherapy, and that their families do as well. These beliefs obviously distinguish Zucker’s opinion from that of the left—“leave masculine girls and feminine boys alone”—crowd, but Zucker also disagrees with the right’s emphasis on preventing homosexuality. Zucker does not consider this an important clinical goal, because he thinks that homosexual people can be as happy as heterosexual people, and regardless, he doubts that therapy to prevent homosexuality works.However, when I spoke to Zucker about the current debate about childhood GID, I came away with the impression that these days, he feels besieged primarily on the left. He has had several recent exchanges in academic journals on the issue of GID, all with critics who believe that the GID diagnosis is essentially gender repression; histone in some of these exchanges has seemed irritable. He has argued, among other things, that the notion that a boy might be diagnosed simply for liking dolls is completely wrong. All the children referred to his clinic for GID have had significant cross-gender behavior.More importantly, he has scoffed at the idea that children with GID are unhappy only because they are socially ostracized. He remembers cases in which children were unhappy primarily because they couldn’t become the other sex. For example, he recalls parents of a boy with GID telling him: “Every night before going to bed, he prays to God to turn him into a girl.” Another mother of a six-year-old boy with GID told Zucker that the boy cried himself to sleep every night, softly singing, “My dreams will never come true.” These boys are unhappy because they aren’t girls, regardless of whether others call them “sissy.” Zucker thinks that an important goal of treatment is to help the children accept their birth sex and to avoid becoming transsexual. His experience has convinced him that if a boy with GIDbecomes an adolescent with GID, the chances that he will become an adult with GID and seek a sex change are much higher. And he thinks that the kind of therapy he practices helps reduce this risk.Zucker emphasizes a three-pronged treatment approach for boys with GID. First, he thinks that family dynamics play a large role in childhood GID—not necessarily in the origins of cross-gendered behavior, but in their persistence. It is the disordered and chaotic family, according to Zucker, that can’t get its act together to present a consistent and sensible reaction to the child, which would be something like the following: “We love you, but you are a boy, not a girl. Wishing to be a girl will only make you unhappy in the long run, and pretending to be a girl will only make your life around others harder.” So the first prong of Zucker’s approach is family therapy. Whatever conflicts or issues that parents have that prevent them from uniting to help their child must be addressed.The second prong is therapy for the boy, to help him adjust to the idea that he cannot become a girl, and to help teach him how tominimize social ostracism. Zucker does not teach boys how to walk in a manly fashion, but he does give them feedback about the likely consequences of taking a doll to school.The third prong is key. Zucker says simply: “The Barbies have to go.” He has nothing against Barbie dolls, of course. He means something more general. Feminine toys and accoutrements—including Barbie dolls, girls’ shoes, dresses, purses, and princess gowns—are no longer to be tolerated at home, much less bought for the child. Zucker believes that toleration and encouragement of feminine play and dress prevents the child from accepting his maleness. Common sense says that a boy who wants to play with dolls so much that he is willing to risk his father’s wrath and his peers’ scorn is unlikely to change his behavior due to inconsistent feedback, sometimes forbidding, sometimes tolerating, and sometimes even encouraging it. Inconsistent parenting like this is ineffective in stamping out any kind of unwanted behavior.Compared with the therapy of the right-wingers, Zucker’s therapy is more psychologically focused and less punitive. Although Zucker encourages parents of GID boys to set limits on their sons’ feminine activities, he also encourages parents to discuss their gender concerns openly with their sons. Still, there is no denying that both moderate Zucker and right-winger Rekers think that parents should not just sit back and let their sons express their feminine sides. This view draws the wrath of the left-wingers, who insist that there is nothing wrong with boys who like girls’ things. The central difference between Zucker and his critics on the left is that Zucker believes that most boys who play with girls’ things often enough to earn a diagnosis of GID would become girls if they could. Failure to intervene increases the chances of transsexualism in adulthood, which Zucker considers a bad outcome. For one, sex change surgery is major and permanent, and can have serious side effects. Why put boys at risk for this when they can become gay men happy to be men?I have not heard anyone argue that transsexualism is an acceptableoutcome for feminine boys. This possibility is worth thinking about, though, and in a moment I will. For now, let’s assume that we don’t want boys to become girls and consider whether Zucker’s methods are necessary. One leftist, the scientist Simon LeVay, has argued that most boys with GID grow up as normal gay men without therapy, and so the discouragement of femininity that Zucker recommends is unnecessary and even cruel.One bone of contention is the rate of untreated boys with GIDwho would become transsexual. Because Richard Green’s prospective study is so famous, it is common for people to cite his transsexual outcome rate of 2 percent (one boy out of fifty). However, a more comprehensive review found a rate of 6 percent, and the authors (Zucker was one) believe that this may have been an underestimate.Transsexual adults are more likely than gay men to be estranged from their families and unable to be found for a follow-up study. So maybe transsexualism is a more common outcome than some people believe.Recent experience in the Netherlands, where attitudes towards transsexualism are quite liberal, also suggests this. Peggy Cohen-Kettenis, a psychologist at the gender clinic for children and adolescents at the University Medical Center in Utrecht, recently reported that 23 percent of the clinic’s adolescent patients who had been evaluated for gender identity problems as children went on to request sex reassignment when they became eligible to do so at age 12.Still, most boys who want to be girls become men who don’t want to be women. In the Zucker-LeVay exchange, LeVay didn’t say how he thinks this happens. But he did imply that it is unnecessary to try to make boys with GID more like other boys. Somehow, perhaps through psychological maturity alone, they will lose their desire to be girls and their unhappiness to be boys. The problem with this analysis is that it ignores what happens in the lives of these boys, even those who get no therapy. In contemporary America (and in every other culture I know), very feminine boys simply cannot avoid encountering strong pressure to stop being feminine. Boys who wear dresses orplay openly with Barbies are ostracized by at least some of their peers, for example. This means that we can’t know how they would grow up if we left them alone. Boys with GID are not left alone.Imagine that we could create a world in which very feminine boys were not persecuted by other children and their parents allowed them to play however they wanted. Do we really think that boys with GID would have the same low rate of transsexual outcome that they do in our crueler, less tolerant world? As much as I would like to arrange such a world, I think that it might well come with the cost of more transsexual adults.Maybe it would be worth it, though. It is conceivable to me that transsexuals who avoided the trauma and shame of social ostracism and parental criticism would be happier and better adjusted than the gay men whose masculinity came at the expense of shame and disappointment. Certainly their childhoods and adolescences would be. Perhaps it would be more humane if we educated boys with GID early on that if they wanted, they could eventually become women. If they still wished to become women when puberty began, we could put them on hormones to prevent their bodies from becoming very masculine, so that they would be more realistic and attractive women once they made the change. At age 16, boys who had retained their cross-gender wishes could opt for surgery. I can imagine that this world would be more humane than ours, although we cannot know it without conducting an experiment that will probably never be possible.In our world very feminine boys must contend with peers who despise sissies, fathers who get squeamish seeing them pick up a doll, parents who have a difficult enough time accepting that their sons will be gay, much less that they might become women. For the most part, people do not just keep these attitudes to themselves but convey them to the boys. So even the boys with GID whose parents don’t bring them to therapy are getting at least some therapeutic components.They are getting a regimen of behavioral modification, heavy on punishment. Compared with this, Zucker’s therapy seems kinder and moreconsistent, and thus more likely to be effective. Zucker believes that it is, although he is the first to acknowledge that no scientific studies currently support the effectiveness of what he does. Designing a study that would decide whether his therapy works, over and above the social influence that all feminine boys are guaranteed, is conceptually simple: Randomly assign boys with GID (along with their families) either to receive Zucker’s therapy or to receive no therapy at all. See if those Zucker treats are less likely to become transsexual. Or see if the boys Zucker sees are happier in some other way. These are the types of questions that Danny’s mother most wanted to know the answers to the day she came to my office. But I could not tell her, because no one knows. Furthermore, given the squeamishness of funding agencies about these kinds of questions, I doubt that we will know the answer for decades, if ever. Which means that parents of very feminine boys are sentenced to acting in ignorance, trusting their instincts, hoping their decisions turn out for the best. Although this is similar to the situation of all parents much of the time, the stakes seem higher for the GID boys.I am fairly certain that when he grows up, Danny Ryan will become a man rather than changing into a woman. I am more certain that no matter what Danny becomes, his sexual desires will be for men. Now eight years old, Danny probably has not yet had clear sexual desires. Recall that at age five he claimed to dislike boys—he meant that he didn’t like their personalities and activities, not that he disliked them sexually. Certainly at age five, Danny had no unambiguous sexual feelings. But he will.We know very little about how children’s sexual feelings develop.Our society is very squeamish about children’s sexuality. I am not sure that a study proposing to ask children about their sexual knowledge and feelings could even be conducted in this country at the beginning of the twenty-first century. This would be true especially of a studythat aimed to ask about homosexuality. I cannot imagine Congress approving funding for such a project, and many parents wouldn’t let their children participate. That is too bad, both for science and for boys like Danny.Try to remember how ignorant of sex you once were. Well into grade school, I had no idea what a vagina was (despite having two sisters). I thought that intercourse involved the penis going into the anus, or perhaps the navel, or perhaps that sperm crawled from the penis into the woman while people slept—I believed all these things at one time or another. I learned more accurate information gradually, and mostly from peers and experience. But I could count on many peers knowing more than I did, because they were nearly all heterosexual. And regardless of my knowledge of sexual anatomy, I knew that men and women, and many boys and girls, had romantic relationships. I saw evidence for this everywhere: at school, on television, in the movies. My friends and I talked about girls we liked (or pretended not to like).I didn’t know about homosexuality until after grade school, perhaps just before high school, and I had very little idea what it involved.Looking back, I see now that a boy I sat next to and befriended during high school French class was flaming, but I didn’t know that at the time. I may have been a slow learner, but my point is that for straight kids, only the graphic details are kept from them—and they have many opportunities to learn these from friends. By comparison, gay kids must feel like Martians. Until very recently, there were no openly gay characters on television or in the movies. Even today, when children hear about homosexuality, it is usually in a derisive way. The gay humorist, David Sedaris, wrote about how important it was for gay children to join straight kids in picking on anyone accused of being gay, in order to direct attention away from themselves. Although there are probably some liberal communities where this would no longer happen, there are many more where anti-gay sentiments are virulent.Many boys must simultaneously learn that they are gay and that they are despised.How will Danny learn that he likes men? Commonly, gay men remember that they felt vaguely different from other children. This difference doubtless has something to do with gender nonconformity, but it probably also has to do with sexuality. Even before I knew the correct details about sex, I had crushes on girls. Gay boys presumably have crushes on other boys, and these crushes make them behave and feel different from other boys. Most people recall that they had their first sexual attraction at about age 10, or fifth grade.A couple of years later genital arousal kicks in, so that boys cannot easily hide their sexual preferences from themselves. Their penises insist on being heard. This is sexual desire. Even here, though, motivated boys can fool themselves. A gay friend told me that he always fantasized about a man and a woman having sex, often with accompanying pornography. He thought this meant he was straight. When he finally admitted to himself that he was gay, he was able to see that he had always been aroused by the men in the fantasies, not the women.One’s first sexual experience is variable in timing, because it depends so much on circumstances. A gay adolescent in a small, conservative community might have no potential sexual outlet. If he is in a large, urban setting, he almost certainly will. On average, gay men have their first homosexual experience at about age 14.Very feminine gay boys tend to know they are gay earlier than masculine gay boys do. They have been called “gay,” “fag,” “queer,”“homo,” and so on, since before they knew the meanings of such words. They are “outed” at an early, pre-sexual, age. When they start having erections around attractive males during puberty, feminine boys need only connect some close dots. In some ways, it might be easier for feminine boys to accept their homosexuality. For example, they do not have to worry about ruining their image. Their image is already gay.They might also have sex earlier. This is partly because they arequicker to acknowledge their homosexual desire, but it might also be because they are easier for other gay people to recognize. A gay male must be careful about approaching other males sexually, but very feminine boys are a safer bet. I would wager that among the many highly publicized cases of predatory men having sex with adolescent boys, a non-trivial percentage of the boys were recognizably feminine. The older men had reason to think that their advances would succeed.Early awareness of homosexuality is not necessarily beneficial. Gay men who were gender nonconforming boys and who came out early are more likely to say that they contemplated or attempted suicide than masculine gay men who came out later. We don’t know why, but it seems likely to have something to do with the stigmatization of gender nonconformity.If any feminine boy is likely to have an easy time coming out, it is Danny Ryan. His mother already knows he will probably be gay—I told her—and she says that this won’t be a problem for her. She will have to run some interference with her husband, who is much less accepting of the possibility, but she has already learned to do that regarding Danny’s feminine behavior. It is odd for me to think that many people would think that Leslie Ryan is shirking her maternal duty by helping Danny feel okay to be gay. I think he is blessed to have her.Leslie Ryan says that Danny is “going into the closet more.” She doesn’t mean the literal closet where he used to seek her shoes. She means that more and more, he is hiding his femininity. Patrick has taken to playing catch with Danny, and Danny apparently enjoys spending this time with his father. But he is not very good at playing catch, and his mother thinks he would rather be doing something else.He will no longer talk willingly about his feminine ways. Jennifer, his old babysitter, recently visited him. She recalled playing Barbie with him, and Danny said: “We don’t talk about those things anymore.” He seems ashamed to have others know or talk about his unusual behavior.He continues to see a therapist, and his mother worries somewhat less about him than she used to. She thinks he has accepted that he will grow up to be a man, if a feminine man. She knows that there are problems ahead too. If Danny becomes a gay man, as seems likely, he will encounter more intolerance. Still, she thinks that at age eight, Danny has left his most difficult times behind him.The Boy Who WouldNot Be a GirlI t is difficult to see a boy like Danny Ryan without wondering why heexists. He is so unusual, and there is no obvious explanation. When Mrs. Ryan came to my office, her main concern was Danny’s well being, but even she expressed profound curiosity about where Danny’s femininity came from. Of course, her curiosity is tinged with the possibility of guilt. Mothers are the first to be accused of causing their children’s problems.Most people Mrs. Ryan has encountered have probably looked at her first as the likely cause. American views on gender development have been dominated for decades by the idea that differences between boys and girls are rooted in socialization, and socialization begins at home. If a boy thinks he is a girl, the parents must have done something wrong. This has been the commonest view of both scientists, such as developmental psychologists, and laypeople.The prevailing view is probably incorrect. Danny’s atypical behav-ior is best explained as the result of feelings that began within him and persisted with little encouragement. Recent dramatic scientific findings have suggested that we couldn’t socialize a boy to behave like Danny even if we tried.When she was six months pregnant, Jessica Johnson got news that every expectant mother dreads: something was wrong with her baby.It was not growing fast enough, and when the doctors did an ultra-sound, they saw a “mass” on the baby’s stomach. They told her that the baby’s intestines were at least partially outside its body; but when it was born, this problem could be surgically repaired. Although the consulting surgeon knew Jessica was worried, he reassured her that soon after the baby was born, it would be all over, and she would “never look back.”Mrs. Johnson saw the surgeon again soon after the baby was deliv-ered by cesarean section. He had lost his reassuring demeanor and told her grimly: “Your son’s problems are much worse than we expected.He has a very rare and serious problem, called ‘cloacal exstrophy.’ His bowels are poorly formed and open into his bladder. He needs surgery right now. If they survive, kids like this will need several major surgeries during childhood.”“If they survive?” Mrs. Johnson said to herself, but before she could ask him about this, the surgeon added: “There is something else you need to know. Boys with this condition are born with poorly formed penises, and in order to give them the best possible outcome later in life, the standards of care are to surgically reassign them as girls.This means that right away, you need to start thinking of your baby as a girl.” He went on to explain that her baby would be castrated and eventually would be given female hormones and have a surgically constructed vagina. She looked at her husband, who seemed dazed, and she burst into tears.When they talked privately later, they decided that they could livewith changing the baby into a girl. They had been planning to call him Jason, but now they agreed to call her Amanda. They would tell no one, and because they had never known Jason, they would not miss him. Although the sex reassignment had been shocking initially, it seemed less important now, in the scheme of things. Amanda had surgery to close her bladder and to correct several other severe problems with her digestive tract. An ileostomy was created, in order for waste to drain. The testes were removed. During the first week, the doctors became more optimistic that Amanda would live.Her mother tried to find out as much as she could about cloacal exstrophy, its causes and its prognosis. It is very rare, occurring once in every 400,000 live births. The surgeon had seen only one other case.No one knows what causes it. It isn’t hereditary, and so if Mrs. Johnson has another child, it will almost certainly not have it. Until the early 1970s babies born with cloacal exstrophy died shortly after birth. When she learned this, Mrs. Johnson briefly wondered whether this would have been a better outcome, but she banished this thought. Children with cloacal exstrophy spend a good part of their childhoods in the hospital, having and recovering from surgeries. And if she and her husband treated Amanda like a normal girl, there was every reason to expect her to become one.They brought Amanda home when she was a month old. She was their first child, so they had nothing to compare her to, but she seemed to be a happy, easy baby. Aside from the countless trips to the doctor, that is. Mrs. Johnson grew increasingly attached to her.By age two Amanda had begun to develop a strong personality.She was assertive, loud, and active. When she played with her dolls and cuddly toys, she did so in a very non-maternal way. She would throw them, tear them apart, and carry them by their hair. She enjoyed cartoons meant for boys. By age four, Amanda had begun to balk at being dressed in dresses or in anything pink. She played more with the boys she met than with the girls. On her fourth birthday she had a party, and the mother of one of Amanda’s friendssaid “I think that girl was meant to be a boy.” She meant it jok-ingly, but Mr. and Mrs. Johnson glanced at each other knowingly.Later, for the first time, her husband raised the question that she had not dared to speak: “Do you think we did the right thing?”During their discussion they agreed that Amanda might be a tomboy, but she was a happy child. Neither of them wished her to be different than she was.Mrs. Johnson brought up the subject of Amanda’s behavior with the surgeon the next time she saw him. He told her that it is common for girls like Amanda—that is, girls who were born boys—to have tomboyish traits. “Before she was born, Amanda got a male dose of testosterone, and this is going to have some effect on her brain.” But he reassured her that girls like Amanda appear to adjust fine as girls.Mrs. Johnson wondered how certain he could be of this if he had only seen one other patient with cloacal exstrophy, but she didn’t want to appear difficult. The surgeon ended their meeting with the warning that it was important that the parents “stick to the plan” of rearing Amanda unambiguously as a girl. “Life is hard enough for her. You don’t want to confuse her.”When Amanda entered school, she became even more masculine.During recess she played with the boys, and she began to play sports.She especially liked baseball and basketball. She was a good athlete, as good as the better boys. With her short hair and masculine ways of moving and talking, strangers often mistook her for a boy. Her classmates accepted and liked her, but they recognized that she was different.When she was seven years old, Amanda’s parents began to worry that it was wrong to hide the truth of her birth from her. They felt guilty, and they also worried that when she became an adult she would have access to her medical records and would discover the truth. They worried that she would hate them for not telling her, or worse, that she would not be able to cope with the discovery and would have a breakdown. They decided to tell her.Although it might seem to be a heavy load to drop on a child, this was no ordinary seven year old. They reasoned that she was probably already wondering why she was so different. Besides, children younger than Amanda learn all kinds of things that others might find disturbing. Mrs. Johnson knew of young children who discovered that they were adopted or who learned that their parents were criminals.Amanda was basically a happy kid, with two loving and supportive parents, and she would be okay.Amanda’s parents told her that they had a “big secret” that they thought she was finally old enough to know. She was, understandably, intrigued. Her mother spoke: “Amanda, when you were born, you were a boy. But the cloacal exstrophy had made it so that you didn’t have a normal penis. So the doctors said that you had to become a girl.They operated on you to make you a girl, and they told us that we should raise you as one. I know that is a lot for you to take in, so I’m going to stop and let you think and ask any questions you want.”Amanda sat, still, stunned, expressionless. As her mother and father watched her, they ached inside. She asked: “If I was born a boy, then why can’t I still be a boy?” They looked at each other, hesitatingly. She said, more insistently: “I am still a boy.” Her parents neither agreed nor argued. She ran to her room.Her parents discussed what they would do. Neither felt certain what the best course of action was. Both were suddenly feeling very disenchanted with the strategy prescribed by Amanda’s doctors, to insist that she is a normal girl. Before they could decide a course of action, she emerged from her room and told them that she wanted a boy’s name. Mrs. Johnson shrugged and said “When you were born, we were going to call you Jason.” Amanda/Jason said: “I like that name.”It was July, and school was out, so Mr. and Mrs. Johnson felt that they had a bit of time to reach a resolution. Their child was determined to stay a boy, and when they forgot and called her “Amanda,”she corrected them impatiently: “Jason!” They were surprised at how easily they stopped making that mistake. By August, they were firmlyon Jason’s side. Jason brought up the question of how they would let his classmates and friends know about his change, and he decided that they would tell everyone on the first day of school. They told his teacher beforehand. (When they told her they had a serious issue to discuss, she insisted that she had heard everything before. When they told her, she changed her mind.) It was a small class, and parents were told ahead of time that an important announcement would be made.So the room was full of curious parents and children on the first day.Mr. Johnson began: “Many of you know that our child has always seemed more like a boy than a girl. Well, actually, Amanda was born a boy, and changed into a girl due to medical problems. But Amanda has decided to be a boy after all, and his new name is ‘Jason.’ Any questions?” The class sat in awkward silence until one parent said: “Jason, what’s your favorite sport?”The children seemed to adjust quickly. It was as if people change sex all the time. A few days later Jason said, “The day I became a boy was the happiest day of my life.” He has said that many times since. He is the best player on his junior high school basketball team, and he has a girlfriend. His parents say that it is difficult to imagine him as Amanda.They have no doubts that they did the right thing.Suppose we wanted to do the perfect experiment to determine whether the essence of boyhood and girlhood is inborn or learned, the perfect nature-nurture study of gender. What would we do?Just after conception, male and female fetuses are quite similar.What make them differ are the direct and indirect effects of testosterone, which is present in much higher levels in males. This is why, for example, males develop penises and females clitorises. Many scientists believe that there are important brain differences between newborn boys and girls that contribute to later behavioral differences. Other scientists believe that at birth the brains of boys and girls are essentially identical, and that girls and boys behave differently entirely due to the socialization they receive.So to the perfect experiment: First we would take normal newborn boys from their mothers. We would castrate the boys and surgically give the babies vaginas. Next, we would give them away to un-suspecting parents, whom we would lead to believe were adopting girls. We would watch the children to see how they develop.What would we watch for? One obvious thing would be to see whether the children behave more like boys or girls: whether they had more stereotypically masculine or feminine interests; whether they played rough; whether they had boys or girls as friends; whether they liked wearing frills and having long hair or preferred pants and short hair. The degree to which children behave like stereotypical boys or girls is sometimes called gender role behavior. A second important outcome to assess, when the kids got old enough, would be sexual orientation. Do the adolescent boys-changed-to-girls develop crushes on boys or girls? We would also want to know whether the children were satisfied being girls, or whether they would prefer returning to their male state. This depends on gender identity, which we have already encountered.Unfortunately for scientific progress—but fortunately for those of us who prefer humane societies—the definitive experiment can never be performed. It can, however, be approximated, due to misfortune.For example, science and the media have given a great deal of attention to two cases of boys who lost their penises in infancy and who were reared as girls.The first, more famous, case is that of David Reimer. (Before he publicly revealed his name, the case was known as the John/Joan case.) As an eight-month-old baby, David lost his penis in a surgical accident. The prevailing scientific belief at the time was that children were“psychosexually neutral at birth.” That is, both boys and girls could be changed into the other sex, with the right upbringing and the right surgery. However, it was, and still is, beyond surgeons’ abilities to construct penises that function acceptably. On the other hand, surgeons have become expert at constructing vaginas. And so David’s parents were given the choice of whether to raise him as a boy without apenis or a girl with a functioning vagina. With medical advice, they decided to raise David as a girl. This case was especially exotic because Reimer has an identical twin brother who was raised alongside David as a normal boy.Early scientific reports asserted that this boy-turned-girl was functioning well as a slightly tomboyish girl. However, we know now that David Reimer experienced a great deal of inner and external torment while being reared as a girl. Other children called her “Cavewoman,”because she moved in such an ungraceful manner. She disliked the feminine accoutrements forced on her by her mother. After receiving estrogen therapy at age 12 she grew breasts, but this only contrasted more with her hypermasculine appearance and made her feel more freakish. When she was 14, she became completely fed up and stopped trying to conform to a feminine stereotype. For example, she began to urinate standing up. This caused great friction with her female high school classmates, who stopped allowing her to use the girls’ bathroom. She also refused to cooperate with further medical efforts to feminize her. One of the physicians involved advised her parents that it was time to tell her about her past. When they did, she felt stunned, but oddly justified: “Suddenly it all made sense why I felt the way I did. I wasn’t some sort of weirdo.” Immediately, she decided to change back into a male, and became David again. Although he had some difficulties adjusting (sexual relationships were initially embarrassing and difficult), he never regretted his decision, and is currently married to a woman.The Reimer case diverged from the perfect experiment in at least one important respect. Reimer lost his penis at age 8 months, and it was not until he was 17 months old that the family decided to rear him as a girl. Although David does not remember anything from that time, it is very likely that he had already begun learning, including about his sex. Perhaps he was simply too old to make the transition. A second very similar case, with sex reassignment before age 6 months, appears to have had a different outcome. In this case, the boy-who-became-a-girl has stayed that way. (On the other hand, she is a lesbian with very masculine interests.) With just these two cases, the position that gender identity, at least, is a matter of very early upbringing is defensible.Cloacal exstrophy, Jason Johnson’s condition, is even closer to the perfect experiment than surgical accidents. There are three main reasons. First, for 20 years or so, most boys born with cloacal exstrophy were castrated and reassigned to girls within days after birth. Second, cloacal exstrophy is such a serious condition, with so many different medical consequences, that parents are less likely to obsess about the sex reassignment than they would be if that were the only problem a child had to face. So it is less plausible that the parents of a cloacal boy-to-girl would have a problem seeing and raising their child as a girl.The third reason is that cloacal exstrophy, although very rare, is much more common than accidents (penile ablation) that cause infant boys to be reassigned as girls. There are only two cases of penile ablation that are reasonably well documented in the scientific literature. Although the results of these two cases are fascinating, they are too easily dismissed as “just two cases.”In contrast, one scientist has been studying boys born with cloacal exstrophy who have (mostly) been reassigned as girls, and he has followed a number of them into childhood, and some beyond. His results are likely to provoke a revolution in the science of gender identity.Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, Maryland, is one of the world’s greatest academic hospitals. This is where psychologist John Money did most of his work on the development of gender identity.Money was one of the most important scientists of the twentieth century, and his work on “pseudo-hermaphrodites”—people whose biological sex is neither clearly male nor clearly female—led him to believe in psychosexual neutrality at birth. Money is the intellectual father of reassigning boys with damaged penises as girls, provided it isdone early enough. In fact, Money advised David Reimer’s parents to reassign him a girl. Reimer’s anguish as a girl and return to the male role, and the case’s publicity, have seriously damaged Money’s reputation, but this does not diminish his importance in the history of the science of sex and gender.Like Money, William Reiner is at Hopkins. This is an ironic coincidence, because his work threatens to undermine Money’s theory of psychosexual neutrality at birth. Reiner originally trained as a urolo-gist, and for 12 years was a practicing surgeon. During this time he gained experience reconstructing anomalous genitalia of children and adolescents with conditions including cloacal exstrophy. He became increasingly fascinated by the psychological development of these children, so much so that he retrained in psychiatry. Says Reiner: “I no longer wished to ‘fix’ children’s genital abnormalities—I wanted to find what makes them grow, mature, and figure out who they are, regardless of their genital realities. And anyway, the pre-op and post-op anxiety was killing me.” He began studying the psychosexual development of children with cloacal exstrophy in 1993. Today he heads the Gender Identity and Psychosexual Disorders Clinic (Child and Adolescent) at Johns Hopkins. His style is direct and passionate, and along with his groundbreaking scientific study, this has made him a controversial figure.Reiner recently submitted a major scientific article on the outcome of boys with cloacal exstrophy reassigned at birth as girls. Most of the children were teenagers (ages 14-20) at last follow-up. Of female-assigned children, 7 have declared that they are boys. Five of these 7 did this spontaneously. For example, one child refused at age 12 to begin estrogen therapy, saying “I am a boy.” In another case, the child was hospitalized for depression before declaring that she was male and wanted a penis. In the non-spontaneous cases, the change occurred as it did with Jason, after the parents came clean about the child’s birth.In two cases in which the children spontaneously declared they were boys, the parents refused to acquiesce to the child’s wishes tochange sex. These children remain girls to their parents, but maintain male identities elsewhere. This will presumably change when they grow up and assume complete control of their identities.What about the children who maintain their female identities?One had wished to become a boy but accepted her status as a girl.Later, her parents told her about her past, and she became angry and withdrawn, refusing to discuss the matter. Parents of the others are determined that the girls will never find out about their birth status.Three have become withdrawn, and a fourth has no friends.Two other children that Reiner has followed were reared as boys because their parents refused sex reassignment. (Not all parents had this choice. One of the parents I spoke with was threatened with child protective services if he refused to allow his child to be reassigned.) Both of these boys are happy, typically masculine boys, although one is concerned about his sex life without a normal penis.All Reiner’s cases who have talked about sexual and romantic feelings are attracted to females; however, several have not revealed anything about these feelings. All cases have unfeminine interests and behavior, and some are quite masculine. One who returned to the male role has been arrested for assault.What do we make of these results? Just looking at the numbers—7 of 14 reassigned children returning to the male role, 7 of 14 remaining female—one might be tempted to conclude that no generalization is possible. But it is very rare for a girl to renounce her biological sex in the insistent way that the first 7 did. The 50 percent rate so far among Reiner’s kids is extraordinarily high.And even though half the children remain girls, what is our best guess about their state of mind? Do they represent successful adjustment to the female role? Let’s assume that none of these children will renounce her status as a female and that in adulthood all will consider themselves women. Does this mean that they have normal female gender identity? Will they be happier as women with functioning vaginas than they would be as men with non-functioning (or absent) penises?In their pursuit of the perfect nature-nurture experiment, scien-tists have thought too little about how to assess outcome. Cleary, if a male infant is reassigned as a girl and later declares that he is a boy, the initial reassignment was a mistake. But if the child does not openly renounce the female role, does this mean that the decision to reassign to the female role was correct? For the most part, scientists such as John Money have acted as if this was a correct inference. But scientists have not fully appreciated how complicated a trait gender identity likely is, or how little we know about it. One expert told me, bluntly:“Gender identity is defined as ‘the inner sense of oneself as male or female.’ What the hell does that mean?”One under-appreciated complication is that gender identity is probably not a binary, black-and-white characteristic. Scientists continue to measure gender identity as “male” or “female,” despite the fact that there are undoubtedly gradations in inner experience between the girl who loves pink frilly dresses and cannot imagine becoming a boy and the extremely masculine boy who shudders to think of becoming a girl.A second complication is the translation of inner experience to words. Of course scientists recognize that sometimes people don’t reveal everything that is on their minds, and so a cloacal exstrophy child might not openly admit the preference to become a boy. But how would a girl even know if she had the same inner experience as a typical boy? If she had been reared from birth as a girl and had no notion that sometimes boys become girls and vice versa, would she still have the conscious realization that she was a boy inside? I think that the answer to this latter question is “quite possibly, no.” If I am right, then scientists have been using a very biased definition of errors in gender identity. The bias is toward missing mistakes.The perfect nature-nurture experiment requires a better way of measuring the outcome than merely waiting to see if a child spontaneously asks for a sex change. What we really want to know is whether a particular child would be happier being reared as a male or as a female. Of course, no one can go back in time, and so we can’t get acomplete replay of anyone’s life as both a male and a female. However, Reiner’s results all point to the superiority of male assignment for cloacal exstrophy cases born male. This is obvious for those who changed back to boys. I spoke to parents of three of these children, and all said their children were much happier as boys than they had been as girls. Interestingly, only one of these parents said her child had seemed unhappy as a girl. The other two characterized their children as basically happy before and yet much happier after becoming boys. Both of these cases were non-spontaneous changes—the children changed back to boys after their parents told them about their childhoods. It is certainly possible that these children would have stayed girls without their parents’ revelation. If this happened, scientists who studied them would probably say that they had successfully adjusted to the female role. But this would have been misleading in a serious way.The children who remain girls are especially poignant. With one exception, none knows her birth status. Reiner’s descriptions of them suggest that they are less than happy. Indeed, Reiner thinks that all the cloacal cases born as boys would be happier as boys rather than girls, because their brains have been biologically prepared for the male role.He thinks that those who remain girls are at best missing out, and at worst are experiencing great inner torment. He thinks their parents should tell them and, essentially, let them choose their sex.Reiner’s results, on top of the publicity surrounding the David Reimer case, have provoked a reconsideration of the practices and beliefs of the past 25 years. This is not to say that Reiner has persuaded everyone. Reiner’s results are so contrary to expectations that some scientists have privately questioned them. The skeptics don’t think that Reiner is making up his results. Rather, their complaint is that he must be doing something to cause the high rate of gender identity change in the cloacal exstrophy children he has studied. Perhaps he asks leading questions that cause children to question their gender identity more than they otherwise would. Perhaps he encourages parents to reconsider the wisdom of rearing the children as girls. (However, theparents I spoke to denied that Reiner did this.) I find it difficult to imagine anything Reiner might have done that could have been so extreme as to make an otherwise happily adjusted child want to reverse sex. I think of my own daughter and cannot imagine her decid-ing to be a boy, even if I lied to her and told her that she was born one.If Reiner has gone further than other researchers—and at this point there is no evidence that he has—it has had the result of providing a more accurate scientific picture and a more humane outcome for boys born with cloacal exstrophy.I imagine introducing the Ryan and Johnson families to each other. I would like Mrs. Ryan to meet Jason Johnson, to hear about his history, to see him now. I’d like to see Danny and Jason together. I’d like to show them to a stranger and ask “Which of these boys do you think was raised as a girl?”Jason Johnson was castrated at birth, told he was a girl named Amanda, and at least initially, treated like a girl. But it didn’t take, and now he is Jason again. Danny Ryan was raised as a boy, and at times harshly punished for not acting like one. He has arguably become more boy-like, at least on the surface. But where did Danny’s extreme femininity come from in the first place?Theories about boys like Danny range from nurture to nature.The nurture hypotheses include the idea that Danny’s mother consciously or unconsciously wanted a girl and so undermined his masculine development; that Mrs. Ryan was so unavailable to Danny during infancy that Danny became his mother, in effect, in order to always have her with him; and that more generally, Danny’s parents’ socialization of Danny as a boy was inconsistent and ambivalent.I find these ideas to be implausible, and I have named their ilk“Looked at ‘em funny” theories of gender identity. According to these theories, you can call a child a girl (or boy), give her (or him) a sex-typical name and the stereotypical toys and clothing associated withher (his) sex, but what really matters are very subtle features of parent-child interaction. These subtle features are not usually well specified, and when they are, they don’t appear to be that unusual or specifically linked to gender identity problems. For example, Mrs. Ryan was depressed and inattentive when Danny was born, but most depressed, inattentive mothers don’t have sons like Danny. If gender identity development could be undermined by subtle miscommunication between parents and their children, then gender identity problems would not be rare. But they are rare, except in cases of boys castrated at birth and reared as girls.What about nature theories? In general, the theory that Danny’s femininity is inborn would begin with the idea that prior to birth his brain was not masculinized the same way that Jason Johnson’s was.Because male hormones such as testosterone are probably responsible for making boys’ brains masculine, we would infer that Danny’s brain was either exposed to low levels of testosterone or insensitive to testosterone’s effects.The one difficulty with this hypothesis is that anatomically, Danny appears to be a normal boy. If Danny’s body had little or no testosterone during all of prenatal life, it would show. Danny wouldn’t have a normal penis, for example. It is possible that hormonal effects on the brain occur after penile development. Classic research on monkeys shows how this might work. When female rhesus monkeys were given testosterone in the womb, effects depended on the timing. If they received the hormone during their first trimester they had enlarged clitorises but played like female monkeys. If they received only a late dose, they had normal female genitalia but played rough, like male monkeys. Perhaps Danny’s testosterone levels were normal during his early prenatal life but low, for a boy, during later prenatal life.The fact is that we don’t know enough about hormonal effects on the human brain to have a very specific theory of how Danny’s brain could have developed in a feminine direction while his body developed masculine. If Danny’s body also showed signs of feminine devel-opment, this would support nature theory, but the lack of anatomical femininity does not disprove it.There has been essentially no research on boys like Danny that is directly biological. Short of dissecting the brain of a feminine boy and comparing it with normal boys’ and girls’ brains, it is unclear what we would even look for. However, the best conceivable direct test of nurture theory has been tried, and it failed. Amanda became Jason again.Part IIThe ManHe Might Becomehe six men addressing my undergraduate sexuality class have twoT things in common. First, they all look fabulous: fit, muscular men, with square jaws, short neat hair, and stylish masculine clothes. They look like models from J. Crew or Banana Republic catalogues, which may be one reason why many more female than male students are asking them questions. I see the looks on the women’s faces as they listen to the panel, and they convey wistful attraction. This is due to the hopeless nature of the attraction—hopeless not because the men are 10 years older than my students, but because of the second thing the men have in common: they are all gay.Because the class’s subject is sexuality, I have asked my students not to hold back from asking questions of interest even if the questions are personal or explicit. (The men on the panel have assured me that such questions are okay.) The students eagerly oblige.“How and when did you come out to your family?” Answers ranged from Rick’s “I haven’t yet” to Ben’s humorous account of telling his mother: “She was visiting me at college and I took her out to dinner. I told her ‘I have something to tell you,’ and she looked very worried. At that point the waiter leaned over and said to me ‘Just tell her honey!’When I told her, she was relieved and said that she had been afraid I was angry at her.”“Did you ever have sex with a woman?” Four of the guys have (two enjoyed it, and two did not), and two have not.“Can you give the girls in the class some oral sex tips?” The men agreed that it is important to actually enjoy giving oral sex, and not to use one’s teeth.“Do you really enjoy it when a man with a large penis has anal sex with you?” Answer: “Honey, you don’t know what you’re missing.”“Professor Bailey says that gay men are usually feminine during childhood. Does that describe your childhoods?” I am happy that someone has brought this up, and I am eager to hear the panel’s responses. Ben says, “I wasn’t much different than other boys. What about the rest of you guys? Anyone want to say anything?” For a few moments the remaining men look at each other and shrug, and then Ben says “Next question?”I am disappointed with the lost opportunity to hear recollections of childhood femininity. To be sure, many gay men do not recall being markedly feminine boys, and a few even recall being more masculine than average. But I suspect that this panel does not consist only of gay men with masculine boyhoods. Rather, I think the guys avoided the question. This explanation is consistent with their body language and their eagerness to go on to the next question. It is also consistent with my past experience talking with many gay men about femininity, especially femininity during childhood.I immediately think of two episodes during my career as a scientist studying this issue. The earliest occurred in Dallas, where I had traveled to interview gay twins for a study regarding the genetics of sexual orientation. I had a standard interview, which included questions about childhood gender nonconformity. (“Were you ever called a sissy?” “Did you ever dress up in girls’ clothes?” and so on.) I had noticed that during this part of the interview some of the gay twins looked uncomfortable. One twin in Dallas took a long time to answer—he had, in fact, been a very feminine boy—and then he told me, “I haven’t thought about those things in years.” I think he wished I hadn’t made him remember.The second incident occurred recently when I gave a talk at a conference on sexual orientation. During my talk I showed a short video of a feminine boy dressing in girls’ clothes and playing with dolls. Afterwards, a local gay politician approached me, smiling uncomfortably. He thanked me for my presentation and said that he thought it was extremely important work. But he confessed thatwatching the boy in the video was a wrenching, “obscene” experience for him. He had just revisited his own childhood from his present perspective and found it disturbing.Reactions like these have been common among the gay men I’ve spoken to about childhood femininity. In fact, of all the controversial topics related to male homosexuality, the contention that gay men tend to have been feminine boys (and may be feminine men) has provoked the most discomfort and dispute. Initially, I found this odd, because the link between childhood gender nonconformity and adult homosexuality is one of the largest and best established associations regarding sexual orientation. But after repeatedly encountering this kind of reaction, I began to think something interesting was going on.I made up a word to describe gay men’s attitude: femiphobia. (Independently, the writer Tim Bergling came up with “sissyphobia.”) Why are gay men femiphobic? Part of it is adverse childhood experience. I don’t think that either the gay twin or the gay politician would endorse the belief that childhood femininity is a bad thing, but both behaved as if it were something to be ashamed of. I inferred that as boys, both men had been subject to the shame-inducing disapproval of others, including parents and peers. To be reminded of this is unsettling. But I have come to realize that it is not only childhood mistreat-ment that causes gay men to react negatively to the suggestion that they are, or were, feminine. To explain the other reasons requires some additional knowledge, and so I will return to them.I live in a section of Chicago called “Wrigleyville,” due to its proximity to Wrigley Field, the home of the Chicago Cubs. I live between two major streets. Half a block to the west is Clark Street, which borders Wrigley Field, and which contains scores of singles bars filled with young heterosexual people. Half a block to the east is Halsted Street, which is the central artery of “Boy’s Town,” Chicago’s historic gay district. Halsted is lined with gay bars, filled mainly withgay men. (My favorite names are “Manhole” and “Cocktail.”) I visit with friends in both places, sometimes during the same evening, and it is difficult for me to do so without my scientist hat. On some nights I am struck by the differences between gay and heterosexual men. On other nights I am impressed by their similarity. It all depends on which aspects of behavior I am focusing on.Gay men are comprised of a mixture of male-typical and female-typical characteristics. The idea that gay and straight men differ only in their preferred sex partners is wrong. The most general way in which they differ is that many gay men are somewhat feminine in certain respects. But even the most feminine gay men are not merely women with penises. There are ways in which gay men are every bit as masculine as heterosexual men, and indeed, may even appear more masculine. Psychologist Sandra Witelson has hypothesized that the brains of homosexual people may be mosaics of male and female parts, and I think she is right. This mixture explains much of what is unique in gay men’s culture and lives.D anny Ryan (the boy from Part I) will probably grow up to be a gay man,but does this mean that most gaymen were boys like Danny Ryan? Not necessarily. Perhaps men who were very feminine boys comprise only a very small subgroup of gay men, the rest of whom had been just like other boys.The easiest way to address this is to ask gay and straight men about their childhoods. I have by now discussed childhood behavior with hundreds of gay men, and my general impression is that the typical gay man is noticeably more feminine than the typical straight man, but that the degree of femininity that Danny Ryan displayed is rare. (At least few gay men remember or acknowledge that degree of femininity.)We don’t have to rely on my impressions, however, because many objective studies have been done on this question. In these studies, gay and straight men are asked about their childhoods using questions like those below.Rate your agreement with each item, from 1 (strongly disagree) to 7 (strongly agree).As a child I was called a “sissy” by my peers.As a child I sometimes wished I had been born a girl rather than a boy.As a child I preferred playing with girls rather than boys.As a child I often felt that I had more in common with girls than boys.As a child I sometimes wore feminine clothing (such as dresses), makeup, or jewelry.As a child I disliked competitive sports such as football, baseball, and basketball.I was a feminine boy.In 1995, Ken Zucker and I reviewed more than 30 studies that had given questionnaires like this to gay and straight men. We found that, on average, gay men were much more feminine in their memories than straight men. The size of d (the effect size, which shows how large a difference between two groups is) was 1.3, which is considered quite large by conventional scientists. Few interesting findings in the behavioral sciences are this large. We estimated that the typical gay man was more feminine than about 90 percent of straight men. On the questions above, the average straight man gets an average of less than 2 (on the 7-point scale); the average gay man gets about a 4.Of course, memories can be wrong. If there was some tendency for gay men to exaggerate how feminine they were, or for straight men to understate how feminine they were, these numbers could be off. I have already suggested that gay men tend not to embrace the idea that they are, or were, feminine, so I don’t think that gay men are likely to be exaggerating. Moreover, we have both prospective studies like Richard Green’s showing that feminine boys become gay men, as well as retrospective studies like ours showing that many gay men were feminine boys. The simplest explanation is that both of these findings are true.One interesting observation about gay men’s memories is thatthey are noticeably more variable than straight men’s. For example, on the items above, straight men tend to be bunched up at the low end of the scale, meaning that they are denying any significant femininity during childhood. In contrast, gay men show more range in their scores. Perhaps 20 percent of gay men have scores similar to the straight men, but a significant minority has scores around 6, meaning that they are agreeing to every feminine item. If we can trust gay men’s memories, then some were feminine boys and others masculine. This could mean that there are different types of gay men. At the very least it means that we should be aware of potential variation. For example, gay men who were feminine boys are likely to differ from gay men who were masculine boys in adulthood as well. Anyone who knows a few gay men has noticed that they vary considerably in how gay-stereotypical their behavior is. This variation may well begin in childhood.It is a crisp October Sunday, and I am meeting Ben (the leader of the “gay guys panel” who spoke to my human sexuality class) and some other friends at Sidetracks on Halsted Street. It is about 3:30 PM, and the Chicago Bears are playing. On Clark Street, a block away, countless sports bars have the game on their large-screen projectors, while men wearing Bears jerseys flirt with similarly dressed women.But not at Sidetracks. Here, the largely male crowd is watching video performances of show tunes and singing along with Fred Astaire, John Travolta, and Gordon MacRae. (Instead of “Oklahoma OK!” they sing “I’m a homo, OK!”) I imagine switching channels at Sidetracks and some Clark Street sports bar so that the straight guys have to watch Gene Kelley and the gay guys have to watch the Monsters of the Midway, and I find the thought amusing.Stereotypes about gay men—and about straight men—start with their interests. Gay men enjoy show tunes, acting (more generally, the arts), fashion, decorating, dancing, and lots of sex. Heterosexual menenjoy football, baseball, basketball, hockey, shopping for stereo equipment and cars, and lots of sex. For about 30 years, from the late 1960s until the late 1990s, it was de rigueur to scoff at these stereotypes and look askance at those who believed them. But recently, science has provided support for the stereotypes, in the only way that stereotypes are ever true: on average.Of course, not all gay men like fashion, and some heterosexual men do. Let me save us a lot of tedious qualification by admitting that not all gay men are alike, and not all straight men are alike, and some gay men are very much like straight men (except, by definition, in their sexual orientation). This is important to keep in mind, but it does not invalidate the fact that there are some large differences between typical gay men and typical straight men.The leading researcher in this domain has been the psychologist, Richard Lippa. Lippa’s contribution has been doubly reactionary, because he has confirmed stereotypes about differences both between men and women and between heterosexual and homosexual people.Lippa devised questionnaire measures of both occupational and recreational interests. (“Rate your interest in being a jet pilot, nurse, fashion designer, physicist….; going to art galleries, surfing, computers, aerobics….”) Altogether, more than 100 occupations and hobbies are rated.One can then compute a total score on the questionnaire, that I will call “Feminine Interests,” by adding all the ratings for stereotypically feminine interests and subtracting all the ratings for masculine interests. He originally studied male and female college students, who might be expected to be less subject to stereotypes than other people. For example, few of my students, male or female, would say that men and women should be encouraged to pursue different careers. Many of them doubt that their interests diverge from those of the other sex.From my classes at Northwestern University, few women will become nurses, and few men will become jet pilots. Still, even at Northwestern, Lippa’s scales yielded huge differences. Conventionally, sex differences (and more generally, differences between two groups) are mea-sured as “d”: d values of 0.2 or less are considered small; d s up to 0.8 are considered moderate; and d s above 0.8 are considered large. The sex difference in height is about 2.0, which is whopping. One would have to be perverse to deny that the sexes differ in height, on average, although of course (for the last time), some women are taller than some men. Lippa’s scale usually yields a d between men and women that approximates the size of the sex difference in height.Stereotypes about gay men (and thus, necessarily, straight men) include occupational and recreational differences. (Quick: One man is a hairdresser, and the other is a Marine sergeant. Which one is gay?) In one sense, then, it is obvious that Lippa would use his questionnaire to study sexual orientation differences. Knowing the sensibility of academic psychology in the late 1990s, however, Lippa’s research seems bold. In several studies, he has found that gay men are midway between heterosexual men and women in their sex-typed interests. The sexual orientation differences are large, although only half the sex difference. I have found similar results using Lippa’s questionnaire with a non-student sample. Furthermore, the gay men who were most feminine during boyhood tend to have the most feminine interests as adults.Perhaps not surprisingly, feminine occupational interests appear to be the continuation of feminine childhood interests.There is more than one take on these findings, however. Many people find the idea of intrinsically feminine interests to be preposter-ous. They think that what men find interesting and what women find interesting are socially arbitrary. Somehow, “society” decides that certain tasks are masculine and others feminine, and because of this decision, men and women are socialized to do different things, in order to conform. Differences, both between men and women and between gay and heterosexual men, reflect historical accidents rather than more fundamental differences. I call the idea that men and women (and gay and straight men) have cross-culturally consistent (and probably innate) differences in interests the “psychological” hypothesis. This is because it suggests that the sexes, and the sexual orientations, are reallypsychologically different. The competing idea, that these differences are largely arbitrary, is known as the “sociological” hypothesis. This hypothesis implies that men and women, or gay and straight men, are the same psychologically, and that behavioral differences between them reflect sociological factors such as group identity. Obviously, the question is at least somewhat amenable to scientific study. For example, we can see whether the kind of activities preferred by gay men has some consistency across cultures.But before we study gay men in other cultures, it is useful to know what they are like in ours. Here in Chicago just past the turn of the century, I think I observe a preponderance of gay men in the following occupations: florists, waiters, hair stylists, actors (or at least acting students), classical musicians (but not rock musicians), psychologists (or at least psychology students) and psychiatrists, antique sellers, fashion and interior designers, yoga and aerobics instructors, masseurs, librarians, flight attendants, nurses, clothing retail salesmen (e.g., at the Gap and Banana Republic), web designers (but not software or hard-ware designers), and Catholic priests. Assuming I’m right—and I may not be in some cases—do these occupations have anything in common? One main thing is that with the exception of the priesthood (from which they are barred), women express higher than average interest in them. Another piece of the picture, noticed by Lippa, is that many (but not all) of these occupations require interacting in a social context. A major distinction between different occupations is that some require interacting with people while others are more focused on inanimate things such as machines. On average, the occupations I listed—especially nursing, retail sales, psychology, waiting tables, and flight attending—are relatively high on the “people” side of this distinction. But that hardly captures everything. There is also an aes-thetic/artistic component (acting, designing, and even collecting antiques reflect this). The other distinction I think figures in some of them (clothing retail sales, hair styling, aerobics) is a concern with physical appearance.Although I am fairly certain that a well-done scientific study would find disproportionate numbers of gay men in the occupations I listed, the definitive, comprehensive study hasn’t been done. I have done the only study I know of about a particular occupation. It is an occupation I purposefully omitted from the list above. Did you notice something missing?Around 1995 a Northwestern undergraduate who was interested in a question related to homosexuality approached me. The undergraduate, Michael Oberschneider, was somewhat older, in his late twenties, and appeared to be straight. (Among other indications he mentioned a girlfriend.) He explained that he was delayed en route to college by a career in ballet, including a stint in the Boston Ballet Company. He had long wondered why so many of his fellow male dancers were gay. I had wondered about this, too, and suggested collaborating. Michael agreed, and he embarked on a most ambitious study. Before it was over, he had interviewed 136 professional dancers from around the country, including several well-known choreographers: 48 gay men, 42 heterosexual men, 45 heterosexual women, and 1 lesbian.We got our participants haphazardly, primarily from Michael’s professional connections and their connections, and so on, and therefore, they do not comprise a random or representative sample. Still, we presumed that they knew much more about the sexual orientation of professional dancers in general than other people did. We asked each participant to give an estimate of the percentage of male dancers who are gay. On average, they estimated 58 percent; the smallest percentage anyone gave was 25 percent. Compared with a rate of 2-4 percent in the general population, this is a huge difference. The average proportion of gay men in the dancers’ own companies—which presumably they could estimate fairly accurately—was 53 percent.We interviewed only one lesbian dancer, because she was the only one we could find. Consistent with this, all dancers gave low estimatesfor the rate of lesbianism among female dancers, for an average of percent. Professional dance is not generally a homosexual occupation; it is a gay male occupation.We also asked participants how and when they got interested in dancing. The gay men actually got started a couple of years later than straight men (age 13 compared to 11). When asked what initially motivated them, about 60 percent of heterosexual dancers said that their parents had encouraged them. (Heterosexual men and women gave similar responses.) In contrast, only 13 percent of gay men said they got into dance this way. Instead, half the gay men said they got interested in dance by themselves, compared with only 19 percent of the straight dancers. For example, one gay dancer recalled watching the Jackie Gleason show at age 6 and seeing the June Taylor Dancers.Immediately, he decided that was his career goal. Although he was unable to obtain a position with the June Taylor Dancers (who were all women), he became a prominent choreographer.We also gave the male dancers questionnaires about memories of childhood femininity. We expected to find smaller sexual orientation differences than usual, because we thought that straight male dancers probably were not the most masculine boys. Instead, we found larger differences than usual. Contrary to our expectations, the straight male dancers were similar to other heterosexual men to whom we have given the questionnaire. The gay male dancers recalled especially feminine childhoods compared with the straight dancers, but also with other samples of gay men we have studied.Overall, our study suggests that many gay dancers were very feminine boys who discovered dance on their own. Pursuing a career in dance requires a great deal of both talent and dedication. What is it about feminine boys that ensures that as adults, they will be over-represented in professional dance by about a factor of twenty? It is possible that such boys possess some innate talent that makes them good dancers. Because I do not have an ounce of relevant ability, it is difficult for me to imagine a specific hypothesis. I think that the moresignificant part of the story must be the intense early interest that feminine boys have. My son was 10 years old when we began our dance study. One day I explained what we were studying, and I asked him why I might expect to find a high rate of gay male dancers. He immediately answered, “Because dancing is feminine, and gay men tend to be feminine.” I was pleased by his answer, which was also mine.It seemed to me that if a 10-year-old boy could come up with the hypothesis, then scientific reviewers of our study would not find it far-fetched. (Indeed, some of my friends made fun of me for studying something they already considered to be an obvious fact.) Danny Ryan (our feminine boy from ) has recently begun ballet lessons. He has also been to the opera, and he enjoyed it.(How many eight-year-old boys enjoy the opera?) He has attended mass and has already asked to become an altar boy when he is old enough. (His mother thinks that this has to do with the altar boys’costumes, which look like dresses.) Because of the intense competi-tion for these careers, he will probably not become an opera singer, ballet dancer, or priest. He is more likely to become an accountant.Still, twenty years from now on any October Sunday, he is more likely to be singing show tunes somewhere than to be cheering for the Chicago Bears.The actor from the Second City comedy troupe plays several roles this evening, and one of them is a gay man. We know almost instantly when the actor becomes that character—not because he says “I’m gay” or puts the moves on any men or mentions a feminine occupation. It’s the way he talks. Male comedians in the United States are often adept at affecting, for wont of a better term, a “gay accent.” This suggests two things. First, people recognize the accent, and so perhaps some gay men really do speak that way. Second, people must think that a character with a gay accent is funny.Another anecdote involving my son: When he was 10 years old,we were sitting in a theater waiting for the movie to start. A man behind us was speaking, and my son leaned over and said, “Dad, there’s someone for you to study.” My son knows that I study sexual orientation, and this was his way of suggesting that the man sounded gay. The content of the man’s speech was unremarkable, and so the only clue my son had was the way the man was speaking. Immediately before my son made his remark, I had had the same intuition. I was struck that a 10-year-old boy could have absorbed this cultural stereotype—I had never talked with him about it. Of course, I did not get the opportunity to check the accuracy of our judgments by asking the man about his sexuality.I cannot imitate the gay accent, and I cannot even describe it, but chances are, you know what I’m talking about. Done well, it does not include a lisp, which is the lazy straight man’s way of pretending to speak like a gay man. Before worrying much what the gay accent is, it seems more important to determine whether there is any truth in the notion that gay men speak differently. And so I did the following study.We recruited homosexual and heterosexual men and women to the lab to provide several types of data. We got approximately 30 from each group; the relevant groups here are gay and heterosexual men.The relevant data, for now, consisted of short speech samples. Every subject read the Harvard Sentences, a collection of sentences that are interesting to linguists because they contain all the phonemes (elemental sounds) of the English language. Some example sentences include:It’s easy to tell the depth of a well.Four hours of steady work faced us.Help the woman get back to her feet.The soft cushion broke the man’s fall.Subjects read the sentences into a microphone connected to a computer, which stored the recordings. Next, we recruited an entirelydifferent sample of homosexual and heterosexual men and women to listen to the four sentences given above. This new sample (Listeners) rated each person in the first sample (Speakers) on a scale from 1 (very heterosexual sounding) to 7 (very gay sounding).Results were striking. The size of d (the effect size) was about 2.0, as large a difference between gay and heterosexual men as I have observed (except, of course, when we ask about their sexual orientations). Only 10 percent of the heterosexual men were rated above 4, on average—4 represents a “neutral” score of neither gay nor heterosexual. In contrast, 75 percent of the gay men were rated above 4.Excluding one very unusual straight speaker (rated a 4.9), two-thirds of gay speakers were rated as gayer sounding than any straight speaker.By these data we would conclude that if a man sounds gay, he probably is.The qualifications here are interesting. About 25 percent of gay men were rated well within the typical range of straight speakers. Furthermore, there was more than twice as much variation (in statistical language, variance) among the gay speakers than among the straight speakers. Clearly, not all gay men speak in a recognizable pattern.There is something to the stereotype that many gay men speak in a characteristic way. What is that way? Although some laypeople might have sufficiently skilled ears to discern the precise differences between gay and straight male speech, I do not. In the present stage of research, therefore, I am collaborating with linguists (more specifically, phoneticists), who make their living by listening for, identifying, and studying such differences. My collaborator has said this: Generally speaking, I’d say that the vowels appear to be shifted in a direction that would suggest a more fronted articulation. (For women, the vocal tract is shorter and differently proportioned, and the vowel shift may reflect modeling on the characteristic patterns of women’s vowels.) In addition, we think we may be hearing more careful or precise articulation. We also think we may be hearing an articulation of /s/ that has the tongue positioned more towards the teeth, as opposed to the alveolar ridge (which is that hard ridge behind your upper teeth).For the non-linguists among us, there are three main ideas here.First, gay men might pronounce vowels with their tongues more forward and to the top of the mouths than straight men do. Second, gay men might speak more precisely, articulating the sounds that straight men pronounce lazily. (Try reading this sentence both in your normal speaking voice and then in a carefully articulated voice. Does the latter sound more gay?) Third, gay men might produce sibilant “s” sounds, sounding somewhat hiss-like. If true, this observation may account for the idea that gay men lisp. All these hypotheses are testable, and soon we will know whether they are correct. Whether or not these particular ideas are correct, something makes a large subset of gay men readily identifiable by the way they speak just a few words.How do gay men come to speak differently than straight men?Consistent with the central theme of this book, the first hypothesis that comes to my mind is that gay men are speaking in a feminine manner. That is, to the extent that gay men have recognizable speech patterns, those patterns may be somewhat like those of women or girls. Both straight and gay people tend to label the gay accent as a“feminine” speech pattern. However, it is unclear at this time what the gay accent is, much less whether it is feminine. If gay men wanted to speak like women, the most obvious way to do this would be to speak in a higher pitch, the way that many transsexuals and drag queens (in their female persona) do. But no one thinks they hear gay men speaking in a higher pitch. The idea that gay speech is feminine speech remains a hypothesis, for now.If it is true, then there are at least two ways that gay men could come to speak in a feminine way. One is through (perhaps unconscious) imitation. This is particularly plausible if the gay accent is acquired during childhood, when feminine boys are most likely to have strong wishes to be the other sex. Perhaps they are attending to the ways that girls and women speak differently than boys and men, and imitating the former. The alternative hypothesis is that human males and females speak differently in part because their brains are innatelydifferent (due to early hormonal influences, for example), and that the brain centers affecting articulation are somewhat feminized in gay men.The gay humorist David Sedaris wrote a story about being treated by a speech therapist for a year during grade school. He wrote that virtually all the boys seen by the therapist were sissies, like him. If this is even partly true, it suggests that some features of the gay accent begin during childhood. However, both Ken Zucker and Richard Green, who have worked extensively with feminine boys, have told me that young boys do not show it. They think it begins during late childhood or adolescence. This is an unusual time to acquire an accent, and it raises the possibility of cultural influence. If my 10-year-old son knows what it means to sound gay, so can these feminine boys who are becoming gay men. Could they be embracing and expressing their future identity? If so, the gay accent might not be feminine at all.Rather, it might be the product of the same kinds of semi-random factors that, for example, make Americans living below the Mason-Dixon Line speak in a “southern drawl.” If this is true, there is still an important and puzzling distinction between the acquisition of a southern accent and a gay accent: Southerners grow up amidst people who speak with a southern accent; gay men do not grow up amidst people who speak with a gay accent.I often don’t have to hear a man talk or know what he does in order to have a strong suspicion he’s gay. Sometimes it’s enough just to see him move. If I see a man walking and displaying serious hip action, or keeping his elbow in while moving his forearm around; or if I see him standing with arms crossed and hands on shoulders; or if I see him sitting and waving his hands around a certain way when telling a story, my “gaydar” is likely to go off.In 1999 psychologist Nalini Ambady of Harvard University published a study suggesting that homosexual people do in fact move differently than heterosexual people. In this study, she recruited ho-mosexual and heterosexual men and women (targets) to be videotaped. Then she recruited a second set of homosexual and heterosexual people (judges) to view photographs, 1-second videotape segments, or 10-second videotape segments of the targets and try to estimate the targets’ sexual orientation using this information. The three types of visual stimuli differ in the amount of “dynamic information”—the amount of information about movement. Photographs obviously contain little information about movement (although they might conceivably give some clues about posture), 1-second clips a bit more, and 10-second clips the most. She found that people’s accuracy in estimating men’s sexual orientation increased with the amount of dynamic information. Furthermore, even when she removed all static information—clothing, hairstyle, and so on—by using a computer to generate only the outline of the targets during their 10-second clips—people could judge men’s sexual orientation better than by chance alone. However, Ambady didn’t try to identify the specific components of targets’ movement that judges used to make their decision.Indeed, she refrains from even speculating that the relevant information has anything to do with femininity.Our lab took a slightly different approach. We used the same subjects who were the targets in our gay speech study, and we videotaped them walking down the hall, standing briefly, and then sitting briefly while conversing with one of us. Rather than recruiting new subjects to rate the targets, we found an existing rating scale that had been developed during the 1970s to study “sex role motor behavior.” The table on the right shows some of the items that raters considered. Two students in my lab watched the videotapes and rated the subjects using the scale.The results were quite similar to the results of the gay speech study. There was a large difference between gay and straight men.Again, there was much more variation among the gay than among the straight men. Only one straight man exhibited marked feminine movements. Him aside, 40 percent of the gay men were rated as more feminine than the most feminine heterosexual man.Masculine and Feminine TraitsWalkingMasculineFeminineLong strides, free knee actionShort strides, controlled knee actionMinimum hip movementsPronounced hip movementsFoot placement – straddling a lineStepping on a lineArm movements from shoulderArm movements from elbowFirm wrist actionLimp wrist actionArms hang loosely from shouldersUpper arms held fairly close to bodyStandingMasculineFeminineFeet apartFeet togetherArm movements from shoulderArm movements from elbowFirm wrist actionLimp wrist actionHand(s) in pocketHands on hipsSittingMasculineFeminineButtocks away from chair backButtocks close to chair backLeg not crossed or ankle on kneeLegs crossed, knee on kneePrecise hand motionsGraceful hand motionsArm movements from shoulderArm movements from elbowFirm wrist actionLimp wrist actionOne important difference between our movement study and our speech study is that we were able to use the same movement scale to score both men and women. Not surprisingly, the scale yielded a huge sex difference. Gay men scored in the direction of heterosexual women, although they were much closer to heterosexual men. Although we don’t know yet whether a gay accent is a feminine accent,we can conclude that gay men move in feminine ways. And this starts early, at least for some gay men.Richard Green videotaped some of his feminine and masculine boys, and some girls, wearing clothes that concealed their sex (a bath-ing cap, for example). Masculine boys were clearly distinguishable from girls; feminine boys were not. Some of the feminine boys were as young as four years old.In our study of sexual orientation and dance, we asked whether dancers could distinguish gay and straight male dancers by the way they dance, and most responded that they could. They elaborated that gay men were more feminine, and perhaps more dramatic, in their movements.The main characters of the movie, The Birdcage (originally a French Film, La Cage aux Folles) are a gay couple. One of them is a very masculine man, and the other is a flamboyant drag queen. In the movie, they clearly take separate roles as husband and wife, and this is a common stereotype about gay relationships. In this chapter I have been arguing for the accuracy of some stereotypes about gay men. What about this one?In 1995 I became interested in using personal advertisements to study gay men’s mating psychology. One can learn a lot about what people want in mates by studying these ads. They cost money, for one thing, and when people have to pay for each word, they try to make every word count. When describing whom they’re looking for, people often have a mixture of idiosyncratic desires (“likes opera” or “enjoys camping”), but when the same preferences recur in ad after ad (“tall, dark, handsome, and rich” or “attractive, sexy, and fit”), you know these are commodities that most people want. For example, psychologists have analyzed personal ads to show that straight men are much more concerned than straight women about a potential mate’s looks; straight women are more concerned about resources and the ability toacquire them: income, wealth, ambition, a good job, and intelligence.You can also tell a lot about the mating market by the way advertisers describe themselves. Advertisers want to entice readers to answer their ads, and are sometimes quite creative in their self-description. So the self-descriptive adjectives also tend to be those that are highly valued.When my lab first started looking at gay personal advertisements, we were struck by a couple of differences from straight ones. First, gay men’s ads were much more explicitly sexual than straight men’s were—I will explain why I think this is so in the next chapter. The other difference was that gay men’s ads used many more words related to gender conformity and nonconformity, such as masculine, feminine, butch, femme, straight-acting, straight-appearing, and flaming. This suggested that these traits were important to many gay men, but how so? If gay men tended to pair off as in The Birdcage, we would expect to see both advertisements in which the advertiser described himself as“masculine” (or “butch” or “straight-acting” or something similar) and requested a “feminine” (or “femme” or “flaming”) partner; and advertisements with the reverse pattern (“Flamer looking for butch guy….”).We would expect to see similar numbers of both types. In order to check our expectation, we looked at more than 2,700 personal ads placed by gay men. For each ad, we looked for gender-related words and we kept count of how often the advertiser: (a) requested a masculine partner, (b) requested a feminine partner, (c) described himself as masculine, and (d) described himself as feminine. Forty one percent of all the ads had some gender-related word.What we learned suggested that The Birdcage is indeed fiction.When advertisers requested either masculine or feminine characteristics in a partner, they requested masculine traits 96 percent of the time.Furthermore, when they described themselves as masculine or feminine, it was masculine 98 percent of the time. Both what gay men seek and how they represent themselves suggest that they are massively biased in favor of masculinity. Or is it a bias against femininity? In all 72 ads in which an advertiser was explicit about what kind of gender-related trait he did not want, it was a feminine trait; “no femmes” was the most common request.These results raise at least a couple of questions. First, if gay men are almost all so masculine (as their self-descriptions imply), why do they bother requesting masculinity in partners? After all, most personal advertisers don’t waste money asking for someone with four limbs, because even if they have this preference, they can reasonably assume that it applies to almost everyone. The answer is—and this will not surprise most people who have answered a personal ad—that people sometimes misrepresent themselves in a favorable way. How often do advertisers describe themselves as having “below average looks,” even though half the world should? This consideration, as well as everything I’ve discussed in this chapter, should make one skeptical about accepting the masculine self-descriptions of gay male personal advertisers.A second question is less easily dismissed. Perhaps gay men who place personal ads are not representative. Perhaps their unusual characteristics or preferences are what necessitate placing such ads in the first place. Maybe most gay men love feminine men, and because feminine gay men are plentiful, they don’t need to advertise for them.To answer this question we did a second study. We made up mock“gay dating brochures,” each of which profiled two competitors. Each profile had both a picture and a self-description of an ostensibly gay man. Some of the pictures were of very attractive men, others of average-looking men, and the rest were of men we considered very unattractive. One of the descriptions was: Good-looking masculine gay man in early twenties seeks partner for relationship. I am in shape and enjoy rollerblading, jogging, and tennis. I live in the city and would like someone with whom I can share everything from an exciting evening in town at the clubs to a relaxing day at the museum.My hobbies include traveling, being outdoors, and listening to music.The other descriptions were similar. The key word in the description above is “masculine.” A third of the time, that word was includedin the description; a third of the time, “feminine” was substituted for it; and a third of the time neither “masculine” nor “feminine” was included. Each brochure contained one description with either “masculine” or “feminine” and one description with neither term.We went to a gay-oriented bookstore, a gay gym, and a gay pride rally, and we asked gay men to look at the brochures and choose which person they would prefer to date. Most of those polled chose the physically attractive men in the brochures—no surprise, gay men like good-looking guys. But the raters also strongly preferred the brochures with the “masculine” self-description. Substituting “feminine”for “masculine” had about the same effect as substituting an average-looking man’s picture for a very attractive one.The idea that gay men want masculine partners may be surprising to straight people, but it is less so to gay men. Jaye Davidson, the actor who played the homosexual transsexual in the movie The Crying Game explained: “To be homosexual is to like the ideal of sex. Homosexual men love very masculine men. And I’m not a very masculine person.”The gay (and flaming) humorist Quentin Crisp speculated about gay men:To understand what kind of man they most admire it is only necessary to guess what they wish they themselves were—young, frail, beautiful, and refined. Hence their predilection is for huge, violent, coarse brutes.Whether or not Crisp’s explanation—gay men want masculine men to feel more feminine— is correct, he recognized the preference.When gay men say “No femmes,” what is it, exactly, that they are eschewing? Gay men tend to be feminine in several ways, including their interests, their voices, and their movements. (Although it is unclear that the gay accent is a feminine accent, even gay men discuss it as if it is.) Do gay men dislike hairdressers, men who speak with a gay accent, men with limp wrists, or all three?One relevant but surprising finding from our study of gay interests, speech, and movement patterns is that a gay man who acts femi-nine in one respect doesn’t necessarily display other feminine traits.For example, gay men who sound the gayest do not tend to be the ones with the most feminine movements or the most feminine occupations. If our results are correct, then knowing that a gay man is a hairdresser tells you nothing about how he sounds or moves.When I ask my gay friends about what feminine traits they dislike, they usually begin by talking about the voice. An older acquaintance related how once in a gay bathhouse, he was on the verge of having sex with a very attractive and muscular stranger, when the stranger spoke. “When he opened his mouth, a purse fell out. I got limp.” But when I went to a Halsted bar with my gay graduate student, he was able to determine which men he would likely reject merely by watching them move. We don’t yet really know what gay men mean when they say they dislike femmes.This leaves the question of why. When I talk about this with other psychologists, the most common suggestion is internalized femiphobia—femininity has been punished so often by the straight world that gay men, too, come to hate it. This makes sense to me, but it is not the only plausible hypothesis. Another is that behavioral masculinity characterizes the prototypic man. If one is attracted to men, then one will be attracted to those with masculine behavior. The second hypothesis is less malevolent but more pessimistic than the first. The second hypothesis implies that femiphobia is not due to societal intolerance but is intrinsic to male homosexuality and is not remediable even by reforming straight society to make it less ho-mophobic. It suggests that across time and place, gay men will desire masculine men, and thus, acknowledging their own femininity makes them feel undesirable. We don’t know yet how universal the gay male preference for masculinity is, although most of my foreign gay friends say that it is true in their locales as well.Earlier in this chapter I suggested that having been mistreated as feminine boys is not the only reason gay men tend to react uncomfortably to the implication that they are, or used to be, feminine. Theother reason, which I hope is now obvious, is that gay men themselves dislike femininity, or at least they find it sexually unattractive. To call a gay man “feminine” is not only to say that he is a target of many straight men’s ill will, but also that he is less attractive than he would be otherwise. It is certainly an unfortunate state of affairs that gay men tend to be feminine, tend to be less attracted to femininity, but tend to be stuck with each other. There are similar ironies in straight relationships. The designer of the universe has a perverse sense of humor.Until 1973 homosexuality was considered a “mental illness.” During that year, the American Psychiatric Association eliminated it from its diagnostic manual (the DSM)—immediately curing perhaps 2 percent of the American population.One of the influential events preceding the removal of homosexuality from the DSM was the publication in 1957 by Evelyn Hooker of a scientific paper in which she compared gay and straight men’s responses on the Rorschach test. The Rorschach is the test that requires people to say what they see in inkblots. Hooker found that psychologists couldn’t distinguish the answers of gay and straight men.In those days, most psychologists thought it was an excellent test of mental health. In recent times, the Rorschach has fallen into increasing disfavor, and some of us think it is little better than reading tea leaves. So the fact that psychologists couldn’t tell gay men from straight men based on their Rorschach scores is not very meaningful.During the past five years several studies have been conducted by giving large numbers of subjects standard psychiatric interviews, including questions about sexual behavior. In these studies, gay men have tended to have more of certain psychological problems than straight men. Specifically, they have been more likely to be depressed and anxious. One study found that gay men were more likely to have a history of suicidal thoughts. This was true even when the comparison group was the gay men’s own identical twins. Gay men are alsomuch more likely than straight men to have eating disorders like bu-limia and anorexia.We don’t really understand where these differences come from, but there are at least two interesting possibilities. One is that gay men have hard lives, particularly due to societal stigma, and this causes unhappiness and mental problems. This is the explanation that people tend to accept automatically, particularly pro-gay people. However, it might not be true. One of the studies that found higher rates of mental problems among gay men was conducted in the Netherlands. The Netherlands is probably the most tolerant country in the world toward homosexual people. But gay men there were still about three times as likely as straight men to have been depressed during the past year.Another possibility is that gay men’s pattern of susceptibility to certain (but not all) mental problems reflects their femininity. The problems that gay men are most susceptible to—eating disorders, depression, and anxiety disorders—are the same problems that women also suffer from disproportionately. We don’t really understand why women are about twice as likely as men to become depressed during their lifetimes. It might be that their social world is more depression inducing. Perhaps women experience more stress. Alternatively, there may be innate sex differences that make women more susceptible. No one knows.Part of the explanation for the sex difference in depression involves basic psychological traits. In particular, the personality trait, neuroticism, is one of the strongest predictors of depression. Neurotic people are emotional worriers, and they react poorly to stress. Women are somewhat more neurotic than men, on average, although the difference isn’t large. Gay men are also more neurotic than straight men, although they are slightly less neurotic than women. Of course, we don’t know where the sex difference, or the gay-straight difference, in neuroticism comes from. But genetic studies of twins suggest that itcould be at least partly inborn. Even identical twins separated at birth are similar in their degree of neuroticism.Learning why gay men are more easily depressed than straight men might tell us why women are also. This knowledge would also obviously take us closer to reducing depression among gay men. Therefore, we keep our minds open until science makes us certain we understand the sex and sexual orientation differences in depression. Regardless of what we learn, nothing I have written means that we should return homosexuality to the DSM and again consider it mental illness.Many characteristics are associated with increased risk for certain problems. Men commit much more violent crime than women, but women are more depressed than men. Young people are more likely to be delinquent, old people to be demented. Samoan adolescents commit suicide at much higher rates than Americans do. But we don’t conclude from these facts that being male, female, young, old, or Samoan is a mental illness. Rather, the problems are being violent, depressed, delinquent, demented, or suicidal. Homosexuality, per se, is not a problem.Gay men might be feminine in another, sexual, respect. One of the sex acts common between gay men is anal sex, and that act requires one man to be penetrated by another. This situation is analogous to that between heterosexual partners, in which a man is nearly always the penetrator, and the woman the receptive partner. When two gay men have anal sex, is the receptive one taking a feminine role?Not necessarily. Men possess a prostate gland, an erogenous zone which is often pleasurably stimulated during receptive anal sex. This often feels good. Bend Over Boyfriend, an instructional sex videotape showing straight couples how women can (with appropriate equipment) anally penetrate their male partners, was a bestseller. Among gay men, enjoyment of anal penetration might sometimes reflect only a desire to experience a particular type of sexual pleasure, rather than adesire to enact a “feminine” role. Perhaps being penetrated anally is one of the perks of being a gay man.But not all gay men prefer being penetrated. Some prefer being the penetrator. In common lingo, penetrators are “tops,” and receptive partners “bottoms.” Interest in this distinction increased during the AIDS epidemic, because scientists discovered that the receptive partner in anal sex was at greatly increased risk for HIV. HIV researcher James Weinrich showed that gay men who preferred the receptive role in anal intercourse were more likely than other gay men to remember being feminine boys. Similarly, our lab found that gay men who like to be penetrated describe themselves as more feminine than other gay men, although the association was not a strong one.In our analysis of personal advertisements, we also looked at whether advertisers requested or described a preferred sexual role. A slight majority of advertisers described themselves as “bottoms” and sought “tops.” In their sexual roles, gay men tend to be feminine. I have heard the complaint that at every gay bar there are “1,000 bottoms looking for a top” (though our results suggest that this is an exaggeration). One gay acquaintance related the following story, which is not unusual among gay men: “I met this cute guy at the bar. He seemed so butch and like such a stud, but when I got him home, the first thing he did was throw his legs in the air.” (Crisp discusses a similar story in The Naked Civil Servant.) A common saying in the gay world is “butch in the streets, femme in the sheets.” Gay men recognize that there is more than one way to be masculine, and that penetrative masculinity doesn’t have all that much to do with the other ways.The susceptibility of gay men to HIV infection might be due partly to their preference for receptive anal sex, which I have suggested might be a feminine preference. The other major factor that has made them vulnerable, however, is their masculinity, and it is to gay masculinity that I now turn.I am at a dinner party in honor of an eminent professor, who happens tobe gay, and I notice my friend Benconferring quietly with his boyfriend, Charlie. Charlie leaves the room, and Ben tells me what they were talking about. Charlie had met a man at the party that he found attractive, and he was asking Ben whether it was okay if he went home with the man to have sex. Ben assured Charlie that this was fine, provided that he stayed within the bounds of their agreement: they had to use condoms, and the liaison must be exclusively sexual, and not romantic. Ben chuckled bemusedly thinking of Charlie’s hesitancy to believe that Ben was really OK with this.When Ben’s panel of gay men speaks to my undergraduate class, someone invariably asks them about their feelings concerning monogamy. The panel’s composition varies a bit from year to year, but typically, a majority of the men say that monogamy is unimportant to them. A couple of years ago, Rick was the sole monogamous holdout on the panel. I later learned that the next weekend, Rick and his boyfriend had opened their relationship to include sex with other men in the form of threesomes. The idea of consensually non-monogamous sexual relationships is, to say the least, challenging to the typical Northwestern University undergraduate.The panel is also asked about the number of sex partners they have had, and their answers always elicit gasps. All the men have had hundreds of sex partners. Ben correctly reminds us that it depends on what we mean by sex—gay men don’t have vaginal intercourse much, and most of the sex acts are oral. Still, even using the broader definition of sex, the typical heterosexual Northwestern student finds it amazing that anyone has had so many partners.There is a big sex difference in the way my students react to these revelations. The women tend to be horrified, while the men are often envious. Although the straight men in my class have difficulty imagining the degree of cooperation necessary to have hundreds of sex partners, they have less difficulty understanding the desire to do so.By heterosexual standards gay men are sexually promiscuous. Although this was well known to those who paid attention, it became clear to everyone during the AIDS epidemic. In a 1981 study by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, AIDS patients with an average age of 35 years reported an average of 60 sex partners per year, or approximately 1,000 lifetime partners.Of course, the more sex partners a man has, the greater his risk of contracting AIDS, so gay men with AIDS would be expected to have more sex partners than other gay men. But surveys of gay men that ignore HIV status also find large partner numbers. In a survey of gay men from San Francisco conducted in the 1970s (that is, pre-AIDS), the typical gay man had had more than 500 sex partners, the large majority of whom were one-time flings. Many of these experiences were anonymous—some took place in gay bathhouses, for example.Gay and straight men’s personal advertisements differ in this respect too. Gay men’s ads are often very sexually explicit. (“Wanted:Masculine top for fuck buddy.”) Although straight men often have explicit sexual fantasies they want potential partners to fulfill, it is doubtful that including them in personal ads would be very effective in recruiting women.Gay men are less likely to enter meaningful sexual relationships.Surveys have found approximately 30 to 50 percent of gay men to be attached at any one time, compared to approximately 75 percent of lesbians and even higher percentages of heterosexuals.Social conservatives have taken facts like these as evidence for the decadent and perverse nature of gay men. I think they’re wrong. Gay men who are promiscuous are expressing an essentially masculine trait.They are doing what most heterosexual men would do if they could.They are in this way just like heterosexual men, except that they don’t have women to constrain them.Evolutionary psychology seeks to explain some psychological sex differences according to their evolutionary function, and interest in casual sex has always seemed to me its most convincing story. The currency of evolution—what determines how successful one has been, evolutionarily speaking—is the number of offspring one leaves. In the unconscious quest to maximize one’s reproductive output, men are constrained most by the number of women they can have sex with. If a man had the universal cooperation of women, he could leave thousands of offspring in his lifetime. But women do not, in general, benefit at all from having more than one sex partner. A single man with average sexual ability can impregnate a woman often enough to guarantee that she will have as many children as she can have. Thus, we would expect evolution to have made men much more interested than women in sexual variety and casual sex. Casual sex with a variety of women is potentially a reproductive bonanza for a man, because it means that many more children carrying his genes will be out in the world. In contrast, unless there is something very special about a casualsex partner, women stand to gain little and lose much by having casual sex with him. That is, they risk losing the chance for commitment from and investment by other men.I will mention several evolutionary arguments in this chapter, so let me anticipate an objection: Gay men are an evolutionary anomaly—they generally don’t reproduce and pass on their genes—so evolutionary arguments don’t apply to them. In fact, I agree that homosexuality remains an unexplained evolutionary paradox. However, many of the adaptations that evolved due to heterosexuality are also found in gay men. For example, gay men have penises, even though they don’t use them for the purpose for which penises evolved, namely, procreation.Regardless of whether one buys the evolutionary story, anyone who has been out of the house, much less to a singles bar, knows that men and women differ considerably in their approach to casual sex.Not all men want casual sex, and some women do, but the average difference is large. Determining just how large is difficult, because in measuring someone’s casual sex interest our first impulse is simply to count his number of sex partners. The problem with this approach is that casual sex accomplishments are constrained by opportunity. In order for a heterosexual man to have casual sex, he has to have a willing female partner. If women aren’t built to be eager to jump into bed with strangers, then straight men’s numbers of sex partners underestimate their interests. On average, heterosexual men and women must have the same number of sex partners. This is not true of gay men, who do not need to negotiate with women in order to have sex.Gay men have sex with other men, who have similar inclinations.These inclinations include interest in sexual variety, and in having sex without commitment.I devised a questionnaire that tapped interest in casual sex and sexual variety without asking for numbers of sex partners. The items in the questionnaire were written so that either straight or gay men or women could answer them.INTEREST IN CASUAL SEXRate your agreement with each item, from 1 (strongly disagree) to 7 (strongly agree)1. I would consider having sex with a stranger, if I could be assured that it was safe and s/he was attractive to me.2. I like the idea of participating in a sex orgy.3. I would not enjoy sex without any emotional commitment at all.(This item is reverse scored.)4. I do not need to respect or love someone in order to enjoy having sex with him/her.5. I can’t imagine spending the rest of my life with one sex partner.6. Sometimes I’d rather have sex with someone I didn’t care about.7. Monogamy is not for me.8. I believe in taking sexual opportunities when I find them, as long as no one gets hurt.9. I could easily imagine myself enjoying one night of sex with someone I would never see again.10. If an attractive person (of my preferred sex) approached me sexually, it would be hard to resist, no matter how well I knew him/her.I gave the questionnaire to both gay and straight men, as well as to lesbians and straight women. I also asked how many sex partners they’d had. Although gay men had had far more sex partners than straight men, they scored nearly identically on the questionnaire measuring interest. The number of partners of straight men was similar to those of straight women and lesbians. These facts suggest that women are responsible for the pace of sex. Gay and straight men both want casual sex, but only straight men have the brake of women’s sexually cautious nature to slow them.One e-mail listserv I subscribe to has a number of conservative subscribers. Recently, the topic of gay men’s sex lives came up, and the(mostly male) commentators balked at the idea that they would behave as gay men do if women let them. I think it is instructive to think about how many opportunities the typical heterosexual man gets to have uncommitted sex with attractive strangers. Probably not many unless he is a rock star or movie star or looks like Brad Pitt. It is easy to avoid opportunities that aren’t there.The evolutionary anthropologist, Donald Symons, who first used the example of gay men to draw inferences about the male psyche wrote, “I am suggesting that heterosexual men would be as likely as homosexual men to have sex most often with strangers, to participate in anonymous orgies in public baths, and to stop off in public restrooms for five minutes of fellatio on the way home from work if women were interested in these activities. But women are not interested.”Gay male couples tend to go through a typical sexual progression.At first, when the relationship is new, sex is hot and heavy, and the couple is happy being sexually exclusive with each other. But with most couples, as the newness wanes so does the sexual excitement, and eventually one or both partners seek sex elsewhere. In a study of gay male couples in the pre-AIDS era, David McWhirter and Andrew Mattison found that most became nonexclusive within a year, and all were non-monogamous within five years. This pattern often occurs even as partners become increasingly committed to each other in other ways—emotionally and financially, for example.The opening of gay relationships to outside sex partners undoubtedly reflects the compromises necessary for two men to fulfill their masculine desire for sexual variety. But it may also represent a feminine characteristic that I have neglected to mention. Many straight men admit that they would love to have many more sex partners than they do. However, few of these men would be eager to allow their wives the same freedom.Straight men tend to be sexually jealous. Gay men tend to be lessso. One way to show this is to have people imagine their partner both having sex with someone else and falling in love with someone else, and then to choose which scenario is more disturbing. Straight men tend to find the sexual infidelity scenario more disturbing. Straight women and gay men tend to have the opposite reaction.No one really knows why gay men react this way. It may simply be the compromise they have to make in order to have as many sex partners as they like. Perhaps both women and gay men recognize that their male sex partners are capable of having meaningless sex with others. Although this might not make either women or gay men happy, it is preferable to their partners having meaningful sex, because meaningful sex can more effectively end relationships. Or gay men’s decreased sexual jealousy might reflect a more fundamental feminine trait. When straight men learn that their wives are unfaithful, they often become violent. Sexual jealousy is a major cause of domestic abuse and spousal homicide, committed most often by men. However, gay men are less physically aggressive compared with straight men. If sexual jealousy and physical violence are intertwined, this could explain why gay men are less sexually jealous.In the course of my research on differences between gay and straight men, we also took photographs of our subjects’ faces. In contrast to our results for speech and movement, raters could not tell gay and straight men’s faces apart. This does not mean that gay and straight men look the same, however.I work out at two gymnasiums, one on my university’s campus, and the other in Boy’s Town. The gay men at the latter are distinguishable from the mostly straight male students at the former. The gay men are noticeably more muscular and have less body fat. When they leave the gym, they are wearing tighter clothing, which reveals their honed bodies. Most of my female friends insist that gay men are betterlooking than straight men, and perhaps they are, overall (i.e., counting body as well as face). Why might this be?If gay men are better looking than straight men, it is because they have to be. Gay men are masculine in the emphasis they place on a partner’s physical attractiveness. Consider the questionnaire on the importance of a partner’s physical attractiveness. When I gave that questionnaire to straight and gay men and women, the women scored lower than the men. Gay and straight men scored similarly. (Before we accuse men of being shallow, consider that straight women are more concerned than men about a potential partner’s status and income.) IMPORTANCE OF PARTNER’SPHYSICAL ATTRACTIVENESS1. It is easy to imagine becoming romantically involved with someone I initially felt was physically unattractive, as I grew to know her/his personality. (reverse scored)2. Looks aren’t that important to me. (reverse scored) 3. In the past, I’ve usually initially become romantically interested in someone largely due to his/her physical characteristics.4. It is more important to me how nice a potential romantic partner is than how good looking he/she is. (reverse scored) 5. I wouldn’t consider being romantically involved with someone who was significantly overweight.6. It would be hard for me to get involved with someone with a noticeable skin problem.7. I like my romantic partner to dress attractively, even if it requires some effort on her/his part.8. I would be upset if my partner did not try to maintain her/his physical appearance.9. If my partner became much less physically attractive, it would be difficult for me to stay with her/him.10. I would be happy if my partner were more sexually attractive than I.Straight men have it easier, in this sense, because women are less hung up on looks and, therefore, easier to please. Gay men are victims of their own choosiness.I have known few straight men who openly worried that they were not good looking enough for a successful dating career. In contrast, I know gay men who do worry, despite the fact that (in my opinion) they look fine.It is relatively easy to make one’s body attractive, and many gay men spend hours a week at the gym. Gay men are less likely than straight men to be obese. (Along with “no femmes,” gay advertisements often add “no fatties.”) But sometimes gay men go too far in the pursuit of thinness. Gay men are markedly over represented among men diagnosed with eating disorders, comprising 20 percent to percent of male cases. (Remember, only 2-4 percent of men are gay.).Gay men also tend much more than straight men to pay attention to fashion, such as designer clothes and trendy shoes. I don’t think that this stems from the same roots as the desire to be muscular. I doubt that gay men care all that much whether a potential sex partner is stylishly dressed, as long as he is otherwise attractive. Rather, the interest in fashion appears to be a feminine trait. Gay men who are most interested in fashion tend to have other feminine interests as well.The humorist, Cynthia Heimel, wrote that the most important male sex organ is the eye. This is equally true of gay and straight men, and in two senses. The first sense is the one just covered, the concern with physical appearance. The second sense is more overtly sexual.Both gay and straight men enjoy looking at naked people (of their preferred sex) a lot more than women do.The questionnaire that asked about interest in visual sexual stimuli got results that differed markedly between men and women, with men scoring higher. This is one of the largest sex differences in human mating psychology (although it is much smaller than the answer to thequestion, “Do you prefer to have sex with a man or a woman?”). It also has a plausible evolutionary basis. A naked woman is potentially a sexual opportunity, and so straight men should have evolved to seek them out and to become sexually excited in their presence. In contrast, women have nothing to gain by becoming easily aroused at the sight of a naked man. Otherwise, men would be constantly exposing themselves to women and preventing women from using their good cautious judgment.Although difficult to document, consumers of pornography are certainly disproportionately male. Even visual erotica that is targeted at straight women is disproportionately consumed by men—gay men.Playgirl magazine, which was intended to let women share in the ob-jectification of the nude body, probably has as many gay men as women readers.Gay men also respond to pornography very much as straight men do, and very differently from how women do. Show men two erotic video clips: one showing only men and the other showing only women. If they are straight, they become much more sexually aroused by the clip showing women than by the one showing men. This is true whether you measure sexual arousal by asking them (subjective arousal) or by using a penile plethysmograph, which measures the degree of penile erection (genital arousal). Gay men show exactly the opposite pattern: they are much more strongly aroused by video clips of men than by those showing women. Men are quite specific about the kind of erotic categories (i.e., male versus female) they respond to; we call this pattern “category specificity.” In contrast, women of all sexual orientations tend to be aroused by video clips showing men and by those showing women. Women have a bisexual pattern of sexual arousal, both subjectively and genitally.Men’s category-specific pattern of sexual arousal is probably important in developing their sexual orientation. The experience of intense sexual arousal to one sex or the other, but not to both, is a powerful source of information.INTEREST IN VISUAL SEXUAL STIMULI1. Seeing attractive people nude doesn’t sexually arouse me. (reverse scored)2. It would be exciting to watch 2 people have sex.3. Seeing attractive people (of my preferred sex) in skimpy clothing such as lingerie or tight briefs is very sexually exciting to me.4. I find photographs of attractive naked bodies (of my preferred sex) sexually exciting.5. Being around a group of attractive naked people (of my preferred sex) does not sound very sexually arousing to me. (reverse scored) 6. When I meet someone I find attractive, I fantasize about what they would look like without clothes on.7. Seeing the genitals of an attractive person (of my preferred sex) would be extremely sexually arousing.8. Seeing my sexual partner undress is a real turn-on.9. Whether or not I approve of them, I find films of attractive people having sex to be very sexually exciting.10. When I see someone especially physically attractive, I may follow them briefly to get another look.11. When I fantasize about having sex with someone, I try to picture very vividly in my mind what their body would look like.12. If I had to choose, I’d rather have a long conversation with someone I’m attracted to than see them naked. (reverse scored) What about bisexual men? Although there are clearly men who call themselves “bisexual” and who have sex with both men and women, both scientists and laypeople have long been skeptical that men with bisexual arousal patterns exist. Kurt Freund, who invented penile plethysmography, related that he was never able to find a subset of men who appeared bisexual in the lab. Although their data are less scientific, gay men share Freund’s skepticism. They have a saying:“You’re either gay, straight, or lying.” In contrast, many women are bisexual; perhaps most are, at least in their sexual arousal patterns.The motivation to seek erotic stimuli, such as strippers or pornography, and the tendency to be sexually aroused by erotica depicting one sex or the other (but not both) are characteristic of male sexuality.In these senses, gay men are masculine.One of the first times that the gay panel spoke to my class, I offered to take them out for drinks on Halsted Street. I suggested that we go to Roscoe’s, the only bar I had visited. Ben and his friends looked at each other knowingly and suggested that we go to Cocktails instead. Later they told me when they were about 30 years old, they felt too old to go to Roscoe’s. I thought that they meant that the youngsters at Roscoe’s were too unsophisticated to spend time with, but it became clear that they felt unattractive to the Roscoe’s crowd. I am about 10 years older than they are so I wondered whether the boys (whom I had considered men when I was there before) at Roscoe’s had been horrified by my presence there.All the gay men with whom I have ever raised the issue believe that gay men are extremely youth-conscious. Even my 22-year-old research assistant has started to pine for his days in the sun when he was desirable to all gay men. The lonely aging queen, with no chance of a date, much less a relationship, is a common stereotype among gay men. Is this belief justified?If it is justified, then it reflects another way that gay men are like straight men—in being most sexually attracted to younger adults. This contrasts with women, who tend to prefer older mates. This sex difference also has a fairly compelling evolutionary explanation. Men should have evolved to be attracted to women, especially when appraising potential long-term partners, who are fertile and will remain so for a long time. Because women’s fertility is closely linked to youth, men should be more attracted to younger than to older women. Men’sfertility does not decline much with age, and in fact, older men have acquired some of the things that women should value in a mate (including resources and evidence of survival skills). This could explain why women prefer somewhat older men.I wrote the questionnaire on age preference to assess preference for younger versus older partners. In two separate studies gay men have scored intermediately between straight men and women. That is, PREFERENCE FOR YOUNGER PARTNERS1. Facial wrinkles in a potential romantic partner would be a real turn-off to me.2. I find gray hair to be somewhat sexy in a potential romantic partner. (reverse scored)3. I could imagine being romantically and sexually involved with someone 20 years older than I. (reverse scored) 4. If I had to choose someone other than my current romantic partner as a long-term romantic partner I would choose someone age ____.(reverse scored)5. If I had to choose someone other than my current romantic partner as a one-time sexual partner I would choose someone age____. (reverse scored)6. I am turned off by bodies that show signs of aging (such as sagging skin or varicose veins).7. I am most sexually attracted to younger adults (aged 18-25).8. If someone showed definite physical signs of aging, it would be difficult for me to be very sexually attracted to them.9. I find attractive adolescents (aged 16-18) particularly sexy.10. I would be comfortable having a mate considerably older than I.(reverse scored)11. It is hard for me to understand why anyone would have a strong preference for younger rather than older partners. (reverse scored)they are less youth-obsessed than straight men but more so than straight women; they are a bit closer in this way to straight men than to straight women. Evolutionary psychologist Doug Kenrick has argued that gay men are identical to straight men in this regard. He has focused on the actual ages that gay men request in potential partners (in personals ads and in questions 4 and 5 on my questionnaire) and finds that these ages are quite similar to those preferred by straight men.Whether or not gay men are just as youth-centric as straight men or are slightly less so, it is clear that aging gay men have a harder time finding desirable sex partners than straight men do. In this sense gay men have the same experience as straight women. In another way, however, their predicament is more difficult than that of straight women. Straight women actually prefer slightly older men, and certain traits such as accomplishments and wealth can make older men more attractive. (My sense is that, in contrast to women, gay men are not much more attracted to wealthy and accomplished men, but some are willing to trade company and sexual access for money and resources.) Straight women seem to value these non-physical traits more than gay men do. Most gay men would prefer partners in their 20s. Few women over 30 have the same preference. Therefore, it must be harder for older gay men to get what they want.This does not mean that older gay men are doomed to be unhappy any more than it means that older women are. The idea that aging gay men are lonely and unhappy has been challenged by scientific research, which suggests that even unpartnered gay men tend to have busy and satisfying social lives. Evidently, older gay men do not focus as much as younger gay men do on sexual gratification. That is another sense in which they are like straight men.One main reason many parents express disappointment when they learn that their son or daughter is homosexual is that they fear theywill not have grandchildren. However, there is a baby boom among homosexual people these days. Among lesbians, that is.Obviously, it is easier for lesbians to become parents than it is for gay men. Lesbians can find sperm donors. At the very least, gay men must find women willing to donate their bodies for nine months to carrying a child. Still, I think that there is another reason why we haven’t seen flocks of gay men seeking to become parents. (To be sure, many gay men became parents in the context of heterosexual marriages, though this seems to be getting less common.) It is because like straight men, gay men are less interested in children than women are.When I teach undergraduate Introduction to Psychology, I sometimes show video clips of infants and children. I watch my students’faces, and the sex difference is striking. The women make googoo eyes and have smiles that betray profound desire. Although the men also smile, their smiles are unremarkable. For more objective evidence, consider the items in the questionnaire that I wrote to assess interest in children. In two studies, gay men scored similarly to straight men, but lower than straight women (whose scores were similar to those of baby-booming lesbians). The sex difference was not especially large, and this is one trait for which I suspect that subjects are not being completely honest in their responses. After all, who would deny experiencing warm, positive feelings from babies?INTEREST IN CHILDREN1. I greatly enjoy spending time with young children.2. I get a lot of pleasure from holding babies.3. I would enjoy taking care of a baby for a friend or relative.4. I daydream about having a baby of my own.5. Often when I see babies, I experience warm, positive feelings.6. When I think about it hard, I have strong doubts whether the rewards of raising an infant are worth the work and responsibility. (reverse scored)Although I am suggesting that neither gay nor straight men have a female-typical level of nurturance, I am not implying that men don’t make good parents. Most men become devoted to their own children.And when men are faced with the challenge of raising children on their own, they usually rise to the task. But on average, men, compared with women, are less driven to have and raise children. So maybe we’ll never have a gay male baby boom.As the gay rights movement has challenged more and more traditional practices and assumptions, some gay writers have begun to challenge the prohibition of gay marriage, partly on the grounds that forbidding gay men to marry forces them into some of the behaviors that make straight people uncomfortable—most importantly, promiscuity.Writers like Andrew Sullivan and Bruce Bawer have argued that gay male promiscuity and relationship instability are primarily consequences of social stigma and society’s unwillingness to formally recognize gay relationships. Undoubtedly, conferring such recognition would make gay male relationships somewhat more durable. Legal ties are inconvenient to break, and if gay couples could receive the perks given to heterosexual married couples (e.g., health coverage of spouses), that would also provide a positive incentive to stay together.However, discrimination cannot be the whole story. If it were, gay men and lesbians would have similar behavior patterns, but they do not. Among other differences, lesbians are more likely to be in relationships, place less emphasis on sex in their relationships, have many fewer sex partners, and are more monogamous.Because of fundamental differences between men and women, the social organization of gay men’s sexuality will always look quite different from that of heterosexual men’s. Regardless of marital laws and policies, there will always be fewer gay men who are romantically attached. Gay men will always have many more sex partners than straight people do. Those who are attached will be less sexually mo-nogamous. And although some gay male relationships will be for life, these will be many fewer than among heterosexual couples.Social conservatives will view this prediction as tantamount to an admission of the inferiority of the gay male lifestyle, but it is not that.Nor do I wish to take the radical position that the traditional heterosexual family is sick, outmoded, or otherwise doomed. The aspects of gay men’s relationships that cause discomfort—the preeminence of sexuality, the relatively short typical duration, the sexual infidelity—are indeed destructive in a heterosexual context, but they are much less so among gay men. There are two main reasons for this difference.First, gay male couples do not often have children, but heterosexual couples usually do. The main reason we strive for commitment in our sexual relationships is because we want to keep families with children from breaking up. This function is irrelevant to most gay men. It is relevant to those few who raise children, but they are unlikely ever to comprise a substantial proportion of gay men.Second, men feel much less psychic conflict than women about casual sex. That is, most women are not only less interested in casual sex but actively avoid it, because it makes them feel cheap and used. In contrast, most men don’t mind being used sexually, and whether or not there is emotional attachment, sex with an attractive partner is a self-esteem booster. When straight men try to engage women in relationships based solely on casual sex, they often resort to deception because they know that their prey want something else. Gay men are much less likely to practice this kind of deception. They are straightforward in their desires. This is the primary reason gay personal ads are so explicit. Does anyone doubt that straight men would specify their anatomical and sexual preferences if they could get away with it? The emotional consequences of promiscuity are much less damaging to gay men than to straight women. I am ignoring the obvious point that careless promiscuity can have awful health consequences for gay men.Given proper precautions, this issue essentially vanishes.I suspect that regardless of the progress of gay rights, gay men willcontinue to pursue happiness in ways that differ markedly from the ways that most straight people do. This will be true even as society becomes increasingly tolerant of them. Both heterosexual and homosexual people will need to be open minded about social practices common to people of other orientations. They will also need to be cautious about recommending solutions to life problems that work for them but that might not translate well to the other camp.D anny Ryan has a gay uncle, Mark, Leslie’s brother. When Mark cameout to Leslie at age 40, she felt that it was more than a coincidence that Danny and he are close relatives.When their mother revealed that Mark had been a feminine boy, Leslie was even more convinced that there was a real connection between her brother’s and her son’s behaviors.She doubted it had to do with experience. Danny and Mark had not spent much time together. Nor had they had similar rearing experiences. The only similarity that immediately came to mind was that Mark and Danny had both been shamed by their fathers for behaving in feminine ways, though she somehow doubted that caused their femininity to begin with. Danny’s behavior seemed to emerge despite his environment, not because of it.Although she had never liked genetic explanations of behavior, which she associated with conservatism and racism, Leslie had to ad-mit that it seemed possible. When she talked to Mark about it, he said he believed that homosexuality was inborn. So did most of the other gay men she knew. She had read about a study purporting to find a“gay gene.” Perhaps in children the gay gene is a “sissy gene,” and both Danny and Mark had it.When Leslie Ryan came to me to talk about Danny, the possible genetic link was something I felt capable of discussing. I had spent the better part of my career studying it.I became a sex researcher in 1986 when I was a graduate student in clinical psychology at the University of Texas. Although my advisor was fond of me, he was ready to see me finish graduate school. He thought that I was dawdling, and perhaps I was. Ignoring the low pay, graduate school is a fine existence for those who like to learn. But I was also running up against the dissertation block. I had primarily studied genetic aspects of schizophrenia and IQ, both of which have spawned enormous literatures. I was feeling that it would be difficult to make a valuable contribution in either area. The interesting ideas I came up with had either already been done or were too difficult to research.I was taking a graduate course in sexuality and came across an interesting theory about male homosexuality. This theory was stimulated by findings from studies on rats in which pregnant females are stressed, for example, by being shocked and confined. The male offspring of these rats tend to show a feminine pattern of sexual behavior.Typically, male rats mount, and female rats lordose, or raise their rear end when a male tries to mount them. But the males who were prenatally stressed often failed to mount, and under some conditions they lordosed. Now, there is a big difference between what gay men do and what feminized male rats do. Gay men mount plenty. Still, it seemed plausible that in humans prenatal stress might cause male homosexuality. Research by a German scientist, Gunter Dörner, claimed to showjust that. In his study, the mothers of gay men born during (or right after) World War II had had very stressful pregnancies, much more so than the mothers of heterosexual men born at the same time. For example, one mother had been forcibly raped, and several had lost their husbands in the war. One weakness of Dörner’s study was that instead of interviewing mothers directly, he interviewed the gay and heterosexual men about their mothers’ pregnancies. He says that the men were supposed to ask their mothers and then report back to him, but there is no assurance that they did, nor that the mothers were completely honest with their sons. Another potential limitation to his study is the fact that World War II Germany was a very stressful place.Could the kinds of events that happened to the mothers of gay men in his study be sufficiently common in modern-day America to be a common cause of male homosexuality?I decided to do a methodologically stronger version of Dörner’s study for my dissertation. I had never researched homosexuality before, and I had only a few openly gay friends, so I recruited gay and straight men from Austin using advertisements. (I offered them the staggering sum of $5 for participating.) I had to ask permission to send questionnaires to the men’s mothers. However, I assured men that I wouldn’t mention to mothers that the study had anything to do with homosexuality. Both the men and their mothers were terrifically cooperative, and I eventually got a larger sample than Dörner did.I also had fun meeting my subjects, many of whom were intensely curious about the science of homosexuality. At first I was a little uncomfortable being a heterosexual man studying gay men. Not because gay men made me uncomfortable, but because of inferences people often made about why I was doing the research. Some gay people were suspicious about my motives, and questioned what my agenda was. I quickly learned to emphasize my genuine pro-gay feelings, although it was difficult to make a strong case why my particular study would advance gay rights. And people tended to assume that if I was studying male homosexuality, I must be gay. At first, briefly, this both-ered me, if for no other reason than the idea that people had false beliefs about something I considered to be an important aspect of my identity. I quickly learned that I would have to get over this, and I did.I now find it amusing and even flattering when people assume I’m gay—flattering when they say I have a good sense of style. I know most of the scientists who do substantial research on homosexuality, and there is certainly a correlation between this research preoccupation and sexual orientation. Perhaps half of us are gay, a much higher percentage than would be expected by chance.Back to my dissertation. I found no support for Dörner’s theory that men become gay due to prenatal stress. Mothers of gay and straight men reported similar memories of stress during their pregnancies.However, I had asked subjects about their relatives’ orientations, and here I did find something. Gay men said that about 20 percent of their brothers were also gay, and straight men said that about 1 percent were.These numbers were similar to those that had recently been obtained by Richard Pillard, a Boston University psychiatrist. Because I had always been interested in genetics, I was excited by the prospect of studying the genetics of homosexuality. Just after I finished my Ph.D., I contacted Pillard, and we began a long collaboration on this topic.Just because homosexuality runs in families doesn’t mean we can conclude that there are “gay genes.” Catholicism runs in families, but there is no Catholic gene. Traits can run in families for either genetic or environmental reasons. To decide which is more important, we have to do more sophisticated kinds of studies, including studies of twins. Identical (also called “monozygotic,” meaning “one egg”) twins are genetically identical, and they provide the most direct test of the power of genes. If we could separate identical twins at birth and raise them separately, in different environments, we could see how similarly they developed. We know that separated identical twins nearly always have the same eye color, because eye color is virtually completelygenetic. We know that separated twins can be somewhat different in their personality, although they are far more similar than unrelated people would be. What about sexual orientation?Two pairs of separated male identical twins have been written about in which at least one of the twins was gay. Both pairs were separated early in life and reunited in adulthood. In one of these pairs, the other twin considered himself bisexual and had had sexual relationships with men, although he was currently involved with a woman. If gay men are correct in their skepticism that male bisexuality exists, this second twin is probably gay. The other pair was especially fascinating. The twins met, by accident, in a gay bar. They became lovers. (Sexual attraction between biological relatives who were separated early in life and later reunited is much more common than attraction between relatives who were reared together.) So both pairs of twins were similar, or as geneticists say “concordant” for homosexual orientation, which suggests that there are gay genes.Although identical twins reared apart provide the ideal genetic experiment, they are quite rare, and gay identical twins reared apart are rarer still. Unfortunately, mothers of twins are insufficiently dedicated to scientific progress to routinely give up at least one twin for adop-tion. This means that we will probably never have a large enough sample of separated identical twins from which to draw firm conclusions. Luckily, we don’t have to have separated twins to make scientific progress. Another kind of twin study, called the classical twin design, relies on the fact that there are two kinds of twins. Fraternal twins (“dizygotic”—“two eggs”) are not genetically identical, but are only as similar genetically as ordinary brothers. The logic of the classical twin study is this: If gay genes exist, then identical twins should be more similar than fraternal twins in their sexual orientations. Gay men’s identical twins should have a higher rate of homosexuality than their fraternal twins should.In 1990, just after I arrived at Northwestern University, I advertised in gay publications across the country, from Boston to Los Angeles:Are you a twin, orDo you have an adoptive brother?If you are a gay or bisexual man, and you have a male twin (either identical or non-identical); or if you have an adoptive or genetically unrelated brother, we would like to talk to you about participating in a national study of the development of sexual orientation.“Adoptive brothers” are genetically unrelated males raised together as brothers. For example, if a family that already had a son had adopted me, he and I would be adoptive brothers. Adoptive brothers are an interesting comparison group, because they share no genes, only a rearing environment.Gay twins and adoptive brothers called our office, and we set up interviews. Some we conducted on the phone, and some I conducted in person on a whirlwind tour through several states. In Houston, I met a parade of gay twins and adoptive brothers in my hotel room. In San Antonio, it was a college dorm room, in St. Louis a professor’s office, in Kansas City and Dallas friends’ apartments, and in Boston a psychiatrist’s office. It was a grueling month-long trip, but it was also a fascinating one, because of my subjects, whom I remember vividly.Usually, I met only one twin per pair, although there were exceptions, such as the Kansas City identical pair who entertained me with stories of their childhood aversion to sports and the Dallas pair who convincingly denied childhood interest in dolls but rather had played baseball.There was the adopted St. Louisan who discovered that his biological father was also gay. There was the haunted Houstonite so ashamed of his homosexuality that he could tell no one, but who suspected that his heterosexually-married identical twin was also gay. A couple of heterosexually married subjects did reveal that they were “bisexual”without their wives knowing. Some subjects were very sick from AIDS.These subjects were especially happy to be telling their stories—they shared my belief that the study was a worthy goal. Although I was paying subjects $25 at the time, few were doing it for the money. Gay twins wonder even more often than other people about nature versus nurture.I got quite a bit of information from these men, and from their brothers, but the main goal was to find out their twins’ (and adoptive brothers’) sexual orientations. If something genetic is going on, then identical twins should have the highest rate of also being gay, followed by fraternal twins, with adoptive brothers bringing up the rear. This is exactly what I found: 52 percent of identical twins, 24 percent of fraternal twins, and 11 percent of adoptive brothers were also gay.These results are consistent with a substantial, but incomplete, genetic effect. Gay genes apparently exist.Could I say anything more about genes for homosexuality, other than that they exist? I had measured twins’ femininity/masculinity retrospectively, as childhood memories. I wondered whether feminine gay men might be the products of “nature” and masculine gay men the results of “nurture.” If this were true, and if “nature” is equated with “genetic,” then feminine gay men would have more gay genes than masculine gay men. This should be reflected in the rates of homosexuality in their identical twins; identical twins of feminine men should have a higher rate. But I didn’t find this.I did find something interesting about twins’ femininity, however.Recall that not all gay men remember being feminine boys. Some were conventionally masculine. Among the concordant identical twin pairs—those pairs in which both twins were gay—twins from the same pair had strikingly similar memories of their own childhood behavior. In some pairs, both twins recalled being extreme sissies. In others, both remember being masculine. Others were intermediate.This similarity was limited to the concordant pairs. In the discordant pairs—one gay and one straight twin—you can’t use the memory of one to predict the other. The most feminine gay man might have a straight identical twin who plays football for a living. Usually, in fact, straight twins recalled being much more masculine boys compared with their gay identical twins.I also looked at whether having a gay twin has any effect on one’s own sexual orientation. For example, having an identical twin comeout to you might make you question your own sexuality. I asked twins about this, and almost always, twins said that they knew about their own sexual feelings before they had any inkling about their brothers’.The study, coauthored by Richard Pillard, was published in in Archives of General Psychiatry, and it received a fair amount of media attention. I got a flood of letters, including letters of support (primarily from gay people and their families) and hate-mail, primarily from religious people who hate homosexuality. When I sent news clippings to my subjects, I received letters back from several families or loved ones notifying me that the subject had died of AIDS. I found these men especially admirable, for maintaining their curiosity in the face of death.If sexual orientation were completely genetic, then genetically identical twins should always have the same sexual orientation, but clearly they don’t. Environment must also matter, but what particular environmental factors make a gay man? When most people hear “environment,” they automatically think of the social environment, such as how children are raised or what kind of interpersonal experiences they have. But to a geneticist “environment” means anything not en-coded in DNA, and this includes biological factors as well as social factors: diet, germs, and random biological events might also affect development. For example, when one identical twin is born with a major brain defect such as anencephaly (lack of a cerebral cortex, or outer brain) or microcephaly (a very small cortex), the other twin is usually normal. Only environment can cause identical twins to differ, but the environmental problem in this case is biological.What kind of environmental factor can cause genetically identical twins reared in the same family from birth—often dressed alike and given the same toys—to differ in their sexual orientations? It is a fascinating question that we haven’t begun to answer well. One hint comes from the childhood behavior findings. When identical twinsdiffered in their sexual orientation, the gay one tended to recall being much more feminine than the straight one. This means that the environmental factors that cause the twin differences are there early on, by childhood. Based on other things we know, such as studies of children with cloacal exstrophy (like Jason/Amanda from ), I suspect that these factors operate in the womb. But I don’t know what they are.So far, only one environmental factor has been related to male homosexuality: birth order. Psychologist Ray Blanchard has found that gay men tend to be later born sons in a series of brothers. In other words, gay men have greater numbers of older brothers than straight men do. Blanchard has obtained this same result in more than studies, so we can have confidence in it. He theorizes that the “older brother effect” is a biological one, caused by the mother’s immune system, which reacts increasingly to a succession of male fetuses. This immune response affects brain development and, in particular, the sexual differentiation of the brain. Blanchard is in the early stages of testing the immune hypothesis, so we don’t yet know if it’s true. And there are numerous firstborn gay men, so obviously birth order can’t be the whole story.Some social conservatives, especially fundamentalist Christians, have often worried that sexual orientation is affected by societal attitudes. Let people believe that it’s okay to be gay, and we’ll have more gay people. Western attitudes toward homosexuality have surely un-dergone a profound liberalization in the past 50 years. Gay people have become more visible, but there is no good reason to think that they’re more common. Surveys of sexual behavior in the 1990s caused a stir because the prevalence of homosexuality was much lower than people had been assuming. (Before then, gay activists frequently asserted that ten percent of the population was gay. These surveys suggest that the true figure is more like one to three percent.) I suspect that there are now many fewer men who fight their homosexual feelings to live heterosexually than there used to be. I don’t think thismeans that the trait of homosexuality has increased, although its expression may have.Another environmental hypothesis that has received some enthu-siasm on the political right is the idea that gay people seduce and recruit. I have never understood how this is plausible. A boy with no interest in homosexual activity wouldn’t find it pleasant even if he agreed to it. How is this supposed to turn him gay? But recently, well-known scientists have presented findings they claimed support this possibility. Their study consisted of interviewing men about their earliest sexual experiences. They found that gay men were more likely than straight men to have had homosexual experiences in childhood and early adolescence. They concluded from this that the homosexual experiences actually caused the later homosexuality in these cases. I find this reasoning to be astounding. Boys in late childhood and early adolescence are often capable of sexual feelings. Some of those with homosexual feelings are surely motivated to act on them. And some get the opportunity to do so. Most gay men had their first homosexual feelings long before they ever acted on them.To contemplate environmental influences on sexual orientation, consider this thought experiment. Suppose your task was to find a gay man, with the constraint that you can’t ask anyone directly about his sexual preference. You can ask about their families or attitudes or childhoods, though. The question “Were your parents especially tolerant toward gay people?” would be an ineffective one. The question “Were you a very feminine boy?” would be much better. For men with an identical twin brother, the question “Is your brother gay?” would be intermediate in effectiveness.In 1993 biologist Dean Hamer intrigued both scientists and the general public with his scientific report that male homosexuality may be caused by a gene on the X chromosome. Hamer’s study consisted of two components. First, in interviews a sample of gay men reportedmore gay male cousins and uncles on their mothers’ than on their fathers’ sides. (Danny’s uncle Mark is on his mother’s side, and so is consistent with Hamer’s findings.) This is the same pattern as X-linked traits like color blindness and hemophilia. The second finding was based on genetic linkage, which is rather complicated. Hamer studied pairs of gay brothers. Essentially, he reported that gay brothers shared a piece of the X chromosome, called Xq28, more often than they would be expected to if homosexuality had nothing to do with genetics. He concluded that Xq28 probably contains a gene that affects sexual orientation.Hamer’s results remain intriguing but doubtful. They have not yet been independently confirmed, and another scientist was unable to repeat the genetic linkage results. My own lab was unable to repeat his result that gay men have more gay uncles and cousins on their maternal side. Because the results are so important scientifically if they are true, it is important to do a definitive study. This requires money.However, even people who agree with the scientific value of this research are ambivalent about funding it if it might lead to socially undesired results. This is a general problem for research on the origins of sexual orientation. I have often been asked: “Do you want to find out what causes us so you can cure us?”Hamer’s findings provoked special concern. It seemed possible that we could soon discover a gene for homosexuality. If so, then we could develop a genetic test. Parents then might select against male fetuses that carried the gene. Hamer himself worried about this and urged that scientists and politicians band together to prevent it. Eerily, a play called Twilight of the Golds soon opened—it had been written before Hamer’s study was published—whose plot revolved around a pregnant mother who discovers via genetic testing that she is carrying a gay child. Her brother is gay, but she ends her pregnancy anyway with tragic results.I certainly have no motive to change gay people or prevent them from being born. I suspect that the world would be a happier place ifwe had twice as many gay people as we do. Still, there seemed to be something hysterical about the scenarios and arguments being thrown about. For example, some of the people raising the specter of “murdering gay babies” were the same people who insisted that abortion is no one’s business but the woman’s who is considering it. These people have never tolerated the use of words like “murder” and “babies” in the abortion debate before. (“Fetuses aren’t babies. And abortion isn’t murder.”) Why now?I discussed the controversy with Aaron Greenberg, a philosophically-minded attorney. Greenberg’s analysis was provocative, surprising, and correct. First of all, it is useful to isolate the role of abortion in the controversy, because abortion itself is so contentious. The issue is not whether abortion is acceptable. Instead, the real question is whether parental selection in favor of heterosexuality is acceptable. To focus on this question, we have to assume that whatever means parents will use to do this are, in themselves, morally acceptable. So, if you have any problem at all with abortion, assume that pregnant women can guarantee a heterosexual child by, say, taking a pill, or avoiding certain foods, or even by reading their children certain bedtime stories.What would make avoiding gay children wrong? One possible answer is that it would be wrong if it were done due to the parents’irrational dislike of homosexuality. And in fact, opponents of parental selection assume that parents selecting against homosexual children would necessarily have bad motives for doing so. But there are other reasons besides disliking homosexuality that parents might have for preferring heterosexual children: the desire to spare their children the difficulties of societal intolerance of homosexuality, the desire to maximize their chances of having grandchildren, or the desire to have children like themselves in an important area of life: heterosexual marriage and reproduction. No one thinks that Christian parents’ desire to raise their child as a Christian is evidence of their hatred of Jews or anyone else. And even if parents prefer a straight child for a bad reason—because they hate gay people—this doesn’t make the act of hav-ing a straight child wrong, at least in the absence of any harm caused by the act. A white racist may prefer vanilla ice cream to chocolate because vanilla is white, but this doesn’t make ordering vanilla wrong, because ordering vanilla ice cream doesn’t hurt anyone.So the next question is whether selecting for heterosexual children would cause any harm. Certainly being straight rather than gay doesn’t harm the child itself. Would there be some less direct harm caused by parental selection for heterosexuality that would make that selection wrong? One common argument is that allowing parents to choose heterosexual children would validate or encourage social intolerance of homosexuality. But letting Christian parents raise Christian children doesn’t validate or encourage anti-Semitism. And both our ability to avoid children with birth defects and our tolerance of children actually born with defects seem to be at historical high points.The belief that studying the causes of homosexuality will eventually harm gay people is a highly speculative one. There is no good reason to dislike or desire to harm gay people, and so it is difficult to argue that good scientific studies or rational, open discussion will have that end. In fact, I think that the more we know about homosexuality, the better attitudes toward gay people will become.Every day gay people suffer real harm—indignities and abuse committed by those with irrational prejudice. We can do a lot more good by focusing on this problem, and trying to solve it, than by speculating about the harm that science might cause.Every time I lecture about gay genes, the smart kid in the class-room asks the evolution question: How do gay genes persist if gay men reproduce less often than straight men? It is an obvious question, a fine question, an unanswered question. Homosexuality might be the most striking unresolved paradox of human evolution.An adaptation is a solution to an evolutionary problem. Moving organisms do better if they see, so in response to this need, they evolvean eye. Of course, scientists and philosophers know that evolution is not intentional in the way I just implied, but is rather a process of random variation culled by differential success. Our ancestors were those who survived and reproduced best. The vast majority of our ancestors were heterosexual. Heterosexuality is a paradigmatic evolutionary adaptation. The desire to have sex with members of the opposite sex helps people have sex that might result in offspring. The number of healthy offspring one leaves is perhaps the best indicator of evolutionary success.Homosexuality is evolutionarily maladaptive. I think this is an undeniable fact, although gay-positive people (and I am one) tend to cringe when they hear words like these. “Evolutionarily maladaptive”sounds like an insult, but it isn’t one. Lots of traits and behaviors that are evolutionarily adaptive are less than admirable: jealousy, selfishness, dishonesty, infidelity, greed, and nepotism are all easy to explain evolutionarily. In contrast, extreme altruism is evolutionarily puzzling. However admirable they are, people who sacrifice their lives for the good of genetically unrelated others do not pass their genes to future generations. If people like Mother Teresa were much more common than they are, evolutionary theorists would be faced with the evolutionary paradox of saintly self-sacrifice.Some people object that many gay men have sex with women, too. Many even have children. This objection is true but misses the point. Gay men have far less sex with women than straight men do.This means during most of evolutionary history, before birth control, they would have had fewer children. Today gay men have children at about 20 percent of the rate that straight men do. This is a massive disadvantage. Even if gay men had 98 percent as many children as straight men did, gay genes would be eliminated from the gene pool.Yet gay men persist, being at least 1 percent of the male population.Speculating about the persistence of gay genes has become something of a parlor game among evolutionary scientists. They seem to have an amusing or intriguing idea, write a little paper, and then re-turn to pursuits they consider more important. Unfortunately, the persistence of gay genes despite their evolutionary disadvantage is too serious an intellectual problem to be solved this way. The proposed solutions of evolutionary science’s best and brightest have been rather lame.The most common idea suggested by laypeople is that homosexuality is the human species’ solution to overpopulation. Scientists are unanimous that this cannot be correct. Even if in the long run we would be better off as a species with more non-reproducing individuals, genes that make people non-reproductive cannot stay around long.They will rapidly be overtaken by the greater short-term success of reproducers. This idea is a non-starter.There is what I call “the kind gay uncle hypothesis.” This is the idea that instead of reproducing directly, gay men spread their genes by investing in their nieces and nephews. Perhaps gay men help out with childcare or give their relatives money. The recognition that we have a genetic interest in our extended kindred is called inclusive fitness. The idea that gay men reproduce indirectly, through relatives, has received favorable attention by the famous evolutionary scientist E. O. Wilson and others, but it is almost certainly incorrect. To begin with, the numbers are implausible. Children share half our genes, but nieces and nephews share only a quarter. For each foregone child, a gay man would have to have two extra nieces or nephews. He would have to be a super uncle. But when we surveyed gay men and their attitudes toward family members, there was no hint that they were any more interested than straight men in childcare or investing in their nieces and nephews. Of course, one can always say that it might have been different a long time ago, but this is the kind of objection that makes evolutionary theory immune from scientific testing. Furthermore, if the conditions that kept gay genes in the gene pool are no longer true, then those genes should vanish.Another possibility might be called “the artistic brother hypothesis.” Perhaps genes for homosexuality have other effects, and these areevolutionarily advantageous in heterosexual people. Suppose that like height, gayness depends on several to many different genes. Suppose that to be gay, a man needs to inherit five gay genes. If he inherits only four, he is heterosexual with some gay-typical traits. Perhaps he is artistic or has a keen sense of style. If so, then gay genes might persist, because most of the time genes that can cause homosexuality are in straight rather than gay people—and in straight people, they are evolutionarily helpful. If this hypothesis were true, then the heterosexual siblings of gay men would have more children than most people, because they would have more gay genes. There are two problems with this idea. First, how plausible is it that any trait that a sibling might inherit would make up for gay men’s greatly diminished reproductive success? Do artists really have more than twice as many offspring as other people? Second, although male homosexuality is associated with other traits, such as femininity, the association is restricted to the gay men themselves. That is, the straight siblings of gay men don’t appear to be more feminine, artistic, or style-conscious than other heterosexual people.Most other ideas offered to explain how homosexuality has persisted have no more going for them than these do. Scientists have been trying to solve the intellectual problem on the cheap, a few hours at a time, rather than devoting the years it will eventually take to discover the secret. Until they invest the effort and resources that the problem deserves, homosexuality will remain an evolutionary mystery.If gay genes exist, how do they work? No matter what causes homosexual orientation, these causes must work ultimately by im-pinging on the brain. Any psychological or behavioral trait must start in the brain. The brain is the prime behavioral and psychological organ. Other parts of the body might affect behavior, but they do it through the brain. For example, men make testosterone in their testes, but these affect sex drive—and everything else they influence—byacting on the brain. So if gay genes exist, they affect brain development. In fact, environmental influences also work through the brain.This would be true even if homosexuality were explicitly learned—which of course it isn’t.If there is a sexual orientation center of the brain, then we might expect it to work this way. If it is masculine, then attraction to women results. If it is feminine, then attraction to men results. Thus, both straight men and lesbians would be expected to have masculine sexual orientation areas, and gay men and straight women to have feminine areas. So one way to proceed would be to find areas of the brain that differ between straight men and women and then see if they differ between straight and gay men.Neuroscientist Simon LeVay was thinking similar thoughts in 1989. Up to that point, LeVay had had a distinguished career studying how the brain allows us to see. But while caring for his longtime male partner, Richard, who eventually died of AIDS, LeVay became disenchanted with the vision work, which he felt was not sufficiently well connected to his personal concerns, such as his identity as a gay man.He had become less interested in the neuroscience of vision and more interested in the science of sexual orientation. He saw a paper by Laura Allen and colleagues entitled “Two sexually dimorphic cell groups in the human brain” and became excited. The paper claimed to find two cell groups (nuclei) that were larger in men than in women: INAH-1 and INAH-3. This is just the kind of finding that a neuroscientist interested in sexual orientation hopes for. The hypothalamus has been well established to be involved in sexual behavior in both humans and other animals. For example, manipulating hormones in rats to make them show either masculine or feminine sexual patterns seems to work primarily by hormonal effects on the hypothalamus, in particular an area of the brain called the Sexually Dimorphic Nucleus (SDN). The SDN is much larger in normal male rats than in normal females. Males deprived of testosterone during a critical period of development fail to mount like normal males duringadulthood, and they have small SDNs. LeVay thought that perhaps either INAH-1 or INAH-3 might play the same role in humans that the SDN does in rats.In 1990 LeVay began his own study. He was able to obtain the brains of several gay men, all of whom had died of AIDS; the brains of several straight men, most but not all of whom had died of AIDS(these were IV drug users); and those of several straight women. In contrast to Allen’s original study, LeVay found no difference between straight men and women (or gay men) in the size of INAH-1. However, in INAH-3 he struck gold. Like Allen, he found that INAH-was larger in straight men than in straight women. The finding that put him on Oprah, though, was that gay men’s INAH-3s looked like those of straight women rather than straight men’s.This study, published in Science in 1991, was the first of the “Causes of Sexual Orientation” studies that made big splashes in the early 1990s, and like the others (including Hamer’s and my own), LeVay’s received a great deal of scrutiny. One big concern was whether AIDShad caused the difference—remember that all his gay men had acquired AIDS, but some of his heterosexual subjects had not. But LeVay showed that this was not the explanation. The size of INAH-3 did not differ between the brains of straight men who died of AIDS and those who did not have the disease. (It is aggravating to see this criticism continue to pop up in critiques of “gay science.”) A second objection that was often raised was that being gay might have somehow caused the difference in INAH-3, and not vice-versa.If this were true, then LeVay’s finding would have no relevance for the cause of sexual orientation; it would represent an effect of sexual orientation. The problem with this idea is that the hypothalamus appears to develop early. Not a single expert I have ever asked about LeVay’s study thought it was plausible that sexual behavior caused the INAH-3 differences.The main thing that LeVay’s study has had against it is that it has been difficult to repeat. Repeating interesting and surprising studies isimportant, because too often they turn out to have been false leads. In 1991 LeVay was in a good position to try to repeat his own study, but he elected to stop being a laboratory scientist and to focus on writing science books for the general public. Also, as Dean Hamer’s example shows, scientists are less impressed when a scientist repeats his own results than when an independent research group does it.LeVay’s study soon got much more difficult to repeat. It was possible only because of the terrible casualties of the AIDS epidemic, which thankfully, have recently slowed considerably. Still, one dogged scientist has managed a reasonable attempt to both repeat the INAH-3 work and to take it further than LeVay did. I first met Bill Byne in 1991, just after Richard Pillard and I published our male-twin study.Byne was extremely skeptical of LeVay’s results—in fact he believed they were probably incorrect. At the time, I thought that Byne’s skepticism bordered on paranoia, because the concerns he kept raising seemed far-fetched. For example, he thought that perhaps AIDS caused by homosexual behavior might have different effects on the brain compared with AIDS caused by IV drug use. This seemed like a stretch to me—how does HIV know how it gets into someone’s body?Although I was wary of Byne, I also recognized his intelligence and appreciated his tenacity. Byne’s work and ability have paid off recently in a series of important scientific findings. First, he repeated the finding, yet again, that INAH-3 is larger in straight men than in straight women. Even Byne thinks that the INAH-3 sex difference is no longer open to question. Second, he examined the biochemical composition of INAH-3 and showed that it was similar to the SDN in rats. This suggests that those structures may have similar functions, or at least similar evolutionary origins. Third, he looked at the brain of a female rhesus monkey that had been given prenatal androgens and found that this monkey had a larger INAH-3 than other female rhesus monkeys. (Byne did not kill monkeys for his study; their brains were being stored in a laboratory.) Finally, Byne has managed to assemble a sample of brains from straight women and gay and straight men, andhe has repeated LeVay’s study. His results were similar to those of LeVay, although the difference between straight and gay men was not quite as large. If I were going to invest a million dollars to look for the causes of male sexual orientation, I might well invest it in Byne and INAH-3.It sometimes seems that there is a news story every other week linking some kind of biological trait to sexual orientation. I have seen reports that gay people have different fingerprints, more left-handedness, different inner ear waves, height, and even penis size. (Gay men allegedly have larger penises.) These findings are related to two different trends, one of which is good, and one of which is not. The good trend is that people are interested in sexual orientation, especially its causes, so whenever scientists report a finding, the press is eager to report it. The bad trend is that scientists and laypeople both think that there is something more impressive about biological markers—a trait that one can measure with a ruler or a blood test or complicated electronic equipment (I’m serious, there is no better definition of “biological marker”)—than there is about psychological or behavioral markers. This is a mistake.Let’s take the recent example of 2D:4D. In women, the index finger (2D, second digit) tends to be similar in length to the fourth digit (4D). In men, the index finger is more often shorter than the fourth. The ratio of 2D to 4D, 2D:4D, is larger in women than in men, on average. Relatively speaking, this is a small difference—the effect size, d, is only about .30, which is the smallest effect size mentioned in this book. Scientists who study 2D:4D argue that the sex difference depends on prenatal androgens, such as testosterone. My first reaction is that if 2D:4D is so androgen-dependent, then why is the difference between men and women so small? But let’s assume that prenatal androgens are at least one cause of 2D:4D. Sexual orientation would be a sensible trait to examine.In 2000 a report appeared in the journal Nature that lesbians hadmasculine 2D:4D ratios. There was no clear finding for gay men. The chief author of the paper, Marc Breedlove, is a well-known and capable scientist. The report made all the papers and Jay Leno’s monologue. As to be expected, given the modest sex difference, differences between lesbians and straight women were small, detectable primarily because the authors had collected a very large sample at a gay pride parade.Recently, Richard Lippa collected finger length data from even more subjects at gay pride parades, and his findings disagree with Breedlove’s. Lippa didn’t find any differences between straight women and lesbians, but he did find a difference between gay and straight men. As we would expect, gay men had a feminine pattern (larger 2D:4D). Because Lippa’s sample was much larger, and because his analysis was somewhat more sophisticated (for example, he analyzed results separately by ethnic group, because there are ethnic differences in 2D:4D), I think it is somewhat more likely that his results will stand the test of time. Conflicting findings are common in science, and eventually we will know whose findings are correct, if either is. But in any case, I don’t think that studies of 2D:4D will reveal nearly as much about the causes of homosexual orientation as looking carefully at boys like Danny Ryan will. And let me make clear that I think we should be looking at Danny’s behavior, and not his fingers.Nobody ever gave Danny Ryan a dress before he asked for one, and he was punished much more than rewarded for his gender nonconformity. If he grows up to be a gay man, as I expect he will, it will be despite the most obvious influences in his social environment, not because of them. In the short term, Danny will receive no more encouragement from others to become gay than he did to wear dresses.Behavior that emerges with no encouragement, and despite opposi-tion, is the sine qua non of innateness. Boys like Danny are poster children for biological influences on gender and sexuality, and this is true whether or not we measure a single biological marker.Is Homosexuality aRecent Invention?W hat about the Greeks? This is the other question (with the evolutionary one) that is asked nearly everytime I talk about homosexuality. It would be asked even more often, except that a lot of people who believe that they already know the answer to the question don’t show up to my lecture. These people think that I am wasting my time trying to learn about the nature of homosexuality. They think that homosexuality has no nature. To them, homosexuality is a “social construction.”“Social constructionism” (or “social constructivism”) is a term that might be familiar to anyone who has taken a humanities course at an American or European university since 1990, but it might otherwise sound odd. It is difficult to explain social constructionism in a way that satisfies social constructionists. They think this is because they are profound and people like me simplistic. I think it is because they aren’t very clear, and to the extent they are clear, they are incorrect.Regardless, this is an important controversy, and I will try to do it justice.Across history and culture the social constructionists believe they see tremendous variation in both the prevalence and form of homosexual behavior. So much so that to talk about sexual orientation as if it might be a fundamental part of human nature is surely mistaken.They think that whether one prefers sex with men or women is more like whether one likes or dislikes opera than whether one has a penis or a vagina. Searching for scientific laws that explain who likes and dislikes opera, without paying much attention to the culture that one is in, is surely an absurd pursuit. Social constructionists think that those of us who study the origins of sexual orientation are, likewise, spin-ning our wheels.Some of the cultural and historical phenomena that social constructionists have focused on include:•Ancient Greece, where it was common for men to form sexual relationships with adolescent boys and where most men were bisexual (according to the constructionists).•The Romans, who were tolerant of male homosexual behavior, provided that normal free men were penetrating male slaves and prostitutes.•Fifteenth-century Florence, where nearly half of all men came to the attention of the authorities for committing sodomy.•The Sambia, a tribe in New Guinea, in which boys live for years only with males and practice oral sex with men.•British public schools, all-male boarding schools, which were famous for their high levels of homosexual activity.What do these examples have in common? First, these cultures had much higher rates of homosexual behavior between men than exist now in the West. Second, the constructionists assert that none of these cultures thought about sexual orientation the way we do. Indeed, the social constructionists claim that the idea that people vary inwhether they prefer to have sex with men or women began recently, during the nineteenth century. Before then, there were only homosexual and heterosexual acts, not homosexual and heterosexual people.Perhaps the most surprising claim the social constructionists make is that the way that cultures think about sex actually influences the sexual feelings of their members. In cultures that don’t classify heterosexuals and homosexuals, men are capable of sexual attraction to both men and women.Social constructionists call those who disagree with their major points “essentialists.” Essentialists believe that sexual orientation is an essential part of human nature. I am an essentialist.How can we know anything about the sex lives of Greeks who lived 2,500 years ago? It is difficult enough to know about the sex lives of Americans today, even though we can discuss the question with at least some current inhabitants of our culture. Furthermore, social scientists have completed several large and ambitious surveys on this topic during the past decade. These studies required millions of dollars and thousands of subjects. Typically, the researchers identified a representative sample (of Americans, for example), and telephoned them, asking them to participate in a sexuality survey. A standard interview was used that included questions such as: “How many same-sex partners have you had during your lifetime?” “Do you consider yourself heterosexual, bisexual, or homosexual?” “Are you attracted more to members of your own sex or to members of the opposite sex?” Interviews were conducted in private, and subjects were assured that their answers would remain secret. We know exactly what percentage of people declined to participate, and some studies even tried to get at the reasons for non-participation. Still, these studies did not eliminate all uncertainty about American sex lives. There remains controversy about how frequently people commit adultery, for example, and the estimated prevalence of homosexuality varies widely, from less than1 percent to more than 4 percent. This is a wide range, with the higher estimate four times the lower one. The fact that we can’t get complete accuracy is not all that surprising, given the sensitivity of the topic.Historians have a much more difficult task. They can’t go back in time to ask people what they feel and think. They have no access to surveys. Rather, they get remnants and pieces, from art, law, myth, fiction, graffiti, history, philosophy, politics, and poetry. They can make educated guesses. To the extent that different sources of information all convey a similar picture, we can be more confident. Still, there is no reasonable dispute that we can be much less certain of facts about Ancient Greek sex lives than we can about the facts of American sex lives in our own time. Historians’ work is important, but it just can’t be nearly as conclusive as even contemporary social science can be. The best historians are appropriately careful about the conclusions they draw. As one prominent historian put it: “A scene on a vase may not tell us any more about a middling Athenian than a Wedgwood china pattern tells us about a Victorian hackney driver.”Here is what we know for sure. In parts of ancient Greece, including Athens during the fifth century, B.C.E., some men formed homosexual relationships of a different type than that which commonly exists now in the West. Typically, these relationships involved an established older man and a younger adolescent boy, the younger partner (the “eromenos”) being near the age of first growing a beard, the older (“erastes”) often an older (bearded or lightly bearded) adolescent or unmarried young man. The older partner could also be a married man—marriage was largely non-companionate in Greece. The relationship was cemented by the older partner giving the younger a gift, often shown on vases as a cockerel (a young rooster). These relationships were sexual ones. The main sexual activity depicted on vases was intercrural intercourse, in which the older partner inserted his penis between the thighs (but not in the anus) of the younger partner, thrust-ing until ejaculation. Nobody on either side of the social constructionist debate denies that this practice existed.But the most important social constructionists’ claims have not withstood close scrutiny of historians and classical scholars. Not surprisingly, careful scholars admit that there is much we don’t know about the sexual practices and desires of the Ancient Greeks. One problem is that Ancient Greece included many diverse cultures—Sparta, Athens, Crete, among others—and several centuries. To make any generalizations about “the Greeks” is risky. What we do know contradicts the social constructionist account. For example, far from being widespread, “pederastic” relationships between men and adolescent boys were viewed as a decadent practice of the aristocracy. Parents often tried to prevent their sons from entering these relationships (as the younger member). If money changed hands, the younger member could lose citizenship. The Greeks were especially intolerant of receptive anal intercourse, which they viewed as an abomination against nature.More important, the record we have shows that some Greeks recognized that at least some people had a homosexual preference. For example, Aristophanes portrayed Agathon as a feminine man who enjoyed receptive anal sex. In Plato’s Symposium, Aristophanes related a creation myth in which originally there were three sexes: men, women, and a combination of the two. Zeus cut each sex in half, and from that point, each person was driven to find the missing half. Thus, the man created by cleaving a complete man in half was homosexual, whereas heterosexual men and women were created by cutting the original androgyne in half. The historian John Boswell documented the existence of obviously heterosexual or homosexual characters in Greek literature.The Romans, just a few centuries later, had a word to describe feminine, exclusively homosexual men: cinaedi. These men were so common that the Apostle Paul offered homosexual behavior as his chief example of the capital’s decadence. They appear to have shared a flamboyant style of distinctive dress, hairstyles, and mannerisms, as well as regular cruising grounds, and typical occupations. To me, they sound a lot like the guys on Halsted Street.Fifteenth-century Florence had a reputation as a bastion of“sodomites.” (This is why “Florenzer” in German meant “sodomite.”) In 1432 the city created a commission, “the Office of the Night,” to solicit and investigate charges of sodomy. For example, boxes were placed so that people could make anonymous accusations. The population of Florence was 40,000, and the Office of the Night lasted years. During that time, 17,000 men were implicated. Assuming there were 20,000 men in Florence at any one time, and that 70 years means two complete generations, 17,000 is nearly half of the men of Florence during that time. Florentines generally accepted sodomy as a common misdemeanor, to be punished with a fine, rather than as a serious crime. Fewer than 3,000 of the 17,000 accused men were convicted.The primary historian of homosexuality in fifteenth-century Florence, Michael Rocke, emphasized the social constructionist line, that these men were not considered “homosexual.” However, at least some clearly were. One man confessed to his acquaintance, Machiavelli, that had his father “known my natural inclinations and ways, [he] would never have tied me to a wife.” There was a core minority of “notorious sodomites” who committed a disproportionate number of offenses.And accused men were more likely to be bachelors than married men.All this argues that some men preferred men to women.Florence seems to be a special case at that historical period. Other similar-sized cities in the region don’t seem to have had its high rate of homosexual behavior. There is some evidence that some men migrated to Florence precisely because of its reputation, making it a kind of Renaissance-era San Francisco. Thus, it is unclear to what extent the beliefs and culture of Florence influenced the sexual desires of its inhabitants. Perhaps the influence was primarily the other way around.The Sambia live in an isolated forested area on the edge of the New Guinea Highlands. Sometime between ages 7 and 10, Sambian boys are taken from their mothers and made to live in an all-male house in their village. They will live there for the next 10 years, learning Sambian ideology and Sambian practice.The ideology stresses the importance of semen, which is considered necessary for male virility and health. In contrast, women’s essential substance is menstrual blood, which is potentially poisonous to men. Women are born with the ability to secrete menstrual blood, although they don’t do so until adolescence. In contrast, males are born without semen, which they will need in order to maintain health, risk sex with women, impregnate women, and even help provide women with milk.But how do males get their semen, if they have none at birth?They get their semen by sucking it out of older males. Older boys teach them how to do this. Although the older boys obviously get enough sexual pleasure to enable them to ejaculate, everyone considers them to be doing a favor by donating their semen to the younger boys. The younger boys who fellate the older boys don’t usually say that they’re sexually aroused. The younger boys suck semen from older boys a few times a week for several years (remember, they are still segregated from their families and all women) until they undergo puberty. This event “shows” them the value of eating semen. Soon, the mature boys will begin supervising the initiation ritual of a new crop of 7-10-year-old boys, now as the older, fellated, partner.In a few more years, in their late teens or early twenties, these now young men are ready to be married to women. At the first stage of marriage, they don’t have vaginal intercourse, but instead, have oral sex with their wives. They also continue to donate semen to younger boys. Soon, however, the men stop having homosexual encounters with younger boys and begin having vaginal intercourse with their wives. Most men make this transition, from completely homosexual behavior during adolescence to completely heterosexual behaviorduring adulthood, with no problem. A small minority of men remain bachelors and seems to prefer the boys. The other Sambia ridicule these men and think they are odd. We might call them “gay.”At a scientific conference I was talking to a British colleague about homosexuality. My impression of him was of a strict heterosexual, but he revealed that he had had numerous homosexual encounters as an adolescent at public boarding school. (In Britain, “public school” refers to the fancy kind of school that Americans call “private school.”) This activity consisted of mutual masturbation, and he found it exciting at the time. He puzzled over his transition from those days to now, in which he found the idea of sexual contact with other men “disgusting.”His experience reveals three facts that I think might be important.First, his homosexual experiences occurred in a context of female unavailability. The same was also obviously true of the Sambia, but it was also true to a somewhat lesser extent of the Ancient Greeks, who sequestered women until marriage. Men seem more likely to resort to homosexual behavior if they have no heterosexual outlets.Second, his enjoyment of homosexual behavior was evidently normal for him; his later disapproval required him to learn that homosexuality is disgusting. (He does not, however, believe he could have enjoyed fellatio or anal sex even at that time.) Perhaps, then, many if not most men could enjoy homosexual encounters of some form if they hadn’t learned to be disgusted by them.Third, there might be something to the idea that young or adolescent boys are especially attractive as homosexual partners for males.They are relatively hairless and less muscular; in these senses they look like women.None of these possibilities destroys the idea that sexual orientation is a meaningful concept. To say that many men who don’t have access to women will have sex with men is not to say that this is their first choice. That a high percentage of men might enjoy homosexualsex if they were not socialized otherwise does not mean that they wouldn’t prefer heterosexual encounters given the choice. To say that men find relatively immature males more attractive than mature, bulky, hairy men is not to say that they prefer young males to females.Sexual encounters in prison are illuminating. Men in prison generally have no heterosexual outlet, except through fantasy. It is remarkable that a high percentage of men who have always been heterosexual outside of prison engage in homosexual sex in prison instead of confining sexual activity to masturbation. Evidently, there is something pleasurable about being with another person that is more rewarding to some men than merely rubbing their own penises. Many, if not most, incarcerated men have the capacity to enjoy homosexual behavior.The most favored partners are the young, weak, and feminine. Although sociologists have tended to interpret this in terms of power relations—stronger inmates want to dominate weaker ones—it seems more likely to me that this is because the young, weak, and feminine make better female substitutes. There is one type of prisoner that prefers the big, masculine men as partners. This is the “queenie” prisoner, the feminine gay man, who receives a good deal of sexual attention from other prisoners.When they leave prison, men who had been heterosexual before entering usually return to a strictly heterosexual lifestyle. Their prison encounters did not indicate that their sexual preference had changed.The men were simply doing the best they could, given constraints. It would be important to know what these men were thinking when they were having their penises sucked by other men, for example.Were they thinking of the men sucking their penises, or were they imagining their girlfriends at home? The former possibility would indicate more flexibility of true sexual preference than the latter.The social constructionists have offered Greek pederasty, the Sambia, and the British boarding school experience as proof that men are innately bisexual. Although there may be something to their argument, it can’t get them as far as they’d like to go. They can’t explainthe contemporary Western gay man. All these men grew up in a culture that gave homosexuality an inferior status compared with heterosexuality. Many of them were at some point highly motivated to be straight, and some tried—through prayer, therapy, or marriage. If bisexuality—meaning indifference to the choice between male and female sex partners—were in them, then it should have been easy for them to conform to the heterosexual norm. But it wasn’t.Recall gay men’s skepticism about men who claim to be bisexual.(“You’re either gay, straight, or lying.”) My lab has been trying to find bisexual men by studying men’s erections to male versus female sexual stimuli. A truly bisexual man should become substantially aroused to both sexes. Out of approximately 30 men who claim to be bisexual, only 2 have sexual arousal patterns that might be classified as bisexual.Most of the rest had a gay arousal pattern; a few had a straight pattern.In the right culture, most men might be capable of some sexual arousal to both sexes. However, this doesn’t mean that they wouldn’t have stronger feelings for one sex or the other. Most would probably have much stronger feelings for women, and a minority would have much stronger feelings for men.Social constructionists have made a positive contribution to understanding sexual orientation by their insistence that we attend to different cultures rather than assuming everyone is like us. There are interesting differences between the types of homosexual behaviors and relationships across cultures, and we don’t yet understand them fully.However, the contention that homosexual orientation (as distinct from homosexual behavior) is a recent and local phenomenon is not supported by the evidence. Men who look awfully similar to the men I’ve been talking about in previous chapters seem to have existed through the ages and in vastly different cultures. Social constructionists’ refusal or inability to see this suggests that they are trying to keep their eyes closed.Transgender homosexuality occurs when one man takes on a feminine role, often dressing as a woman and taking a woman’s name, and has sex with masculine men. Transgender homosexuality is probably the most common form of homosexuality found across cultures. It occurs in the West (although it is much less common than egalitarian homosexual relationships), and has been documented in a number of other societies. One of the most extensively studied transgender homosexuality traditions has been that of the berdache, among some Native American tribes. The berdache tradition involved males who typically were identified in childhood by their femininity and placed in a role that would allow them both spiritual leadership and sex and marriage with men. As one observer said about the berdache among the Crow of the Plains in 1903: “I was told that when very young, those persons manifested a decided preference for things pertaining to female duties.”The hijras of India are a group of very feminine men who worship the Mother Goddess, Bahuchara Mata. Most of the men are homosexual. Many of the men undergo an operation in which their penis and testes are removed. This surgery is illegal and can be quite dangerous; it is performed by a member of the group, or sometimes by a cooperative surgeon. The hijras are paid to perform at weddings and the celebration of male births, but this service is actually more ex-torted by the hijras than solicited by families. If a family does not pay, the hijras make trouble, perhaps even flashing their mutilated genitalia.Many of the hijras also engage in male prostitution.When he visited Tahiti, Captain Bligh (commander of the Bounty) noted that the mahu participated in the same ceremonies as women did. At first, their feminine behavior and speech led him to believe that they were castrated, but he learned otherwise. He observed with disgust the practice of men rubbing their penises between the mahus’thighs. The contemporary mahu fellate the men they have sex with, who do not return the favor.The xanith perform women’s chores in highly sex-segregated Oman and are classed with women for many social purposes. Their clothing and physical presentation is a mixture of male and female, perhaps because they are denied by law the right to dress as women.Their attractiveness is judged by female standards of beauty (white skin, large eyes, and full cheeks, for example), and they serve as homosexual prostitutes.Evidence for the cross-cultural ubiquity of transsexuals comes from newspapers as well. Thailand holds an annual transsexual beauty pageant. (The most recent winner, 22-year-old Thanaporn Wongprasert of Bangkok, said she would spend the $1,300 prize money to make herself more beautiful.) A recent article in the Bangkok Post discussed Thai television’s excess of drag queens: “Tune into any daytime television channel these days, and before long you may well see a character who is male, but whose behavior is a wild parody of female mannerisms: exaggerated ladylike daintiness, drag-queen hijinx, campy verbal acrobatics—they’re all in the repertoire. No woman could hope to compete with their version of over-the-top super-femininity. And evidently audiences love it. Male cross-dressers are now familiar figures, guaranteed to bring an instant laugh in TV comedies, dramas, talk and game shows, commercials, and even films.”From Tonga: Thirteen contestants entered the annual Miss Galaxy transgendered beauty pageant July 9-11 in Nuku’alofa, capital of the South Pacific nation of Tonga. In the end, Natasha Pressland, 18, emerged victorious. Her hobbies are “dancing, praying, and meeting people.” She plans to become a flight attendant.The sociologist Fred Whitam has spent much of his career studying homosexuality in non-Western cultures. Based on his observations in Brazil, Guatemala, the Philippines, Indonesia, Thailand, and the United States, Whitam is convinced that drag queens and transgender homosexuals exist in all societies. Furthermore, Whitam has found that within homosexual communities, the more important distinction is between conventionally masculine gay men and the very femininedrag queens and transsexuals. Despite particular cross-cultural wrinkles, Whitam has recognized several cross-culturally universal characteristics among the latter. Invariably, drag queens and transsexuals were highly feminine boys who exhibited low levels of athletic interest and high levels of interest in activities considered feminine. As adults, they use female pronouns to talk about themselves, and they adopt female names. They tend to dress in a theatrical, glamorous manner. All drag queen and transsexual communities of any size produce conspicuous entertainment forms, and the most appealing occupations to the members are entertainment-related (primarily singing, dancing, and acting). Transgender homosexual men often work in occupations that are viewed as traditionally female or “gay,” such as prostitution, hair styling, sewing, housekeeping, or manicuring. They have high levels of interest in having sex with men, and their partners tend to be heterosexual or bisexual, rather than gay men.Whitam believes that one of the most culturally variable phenomena is the willingness of straight men to have sex with very feminine gay men. In America, this appears to be a rare practice. However, in some other cultures Whitam says it is common. For example, in the Philippines many straight adolescent males have their first sexual contact with bayot, or members of the transgendered gay male tradition there. Sexual liaisons with bayot are thought of as adolescent peccadil-loes no worse than smoking and drinking. They are certainly more acceptable, in certain respects, than spoiling the virginity of “nice girls.”Whitam’s observations are necessarily limited to contemporary societies, although it is unlikely that any of the transsexual and drag queen subcultures has arisen recently (due, for example, to the international televising of daytime talk shows). The cross-cultural regularity of homosexual transsexuals and drag queens is highly suggestive of some fundamental biological influence that transcends culture.Egalitarian homosexuality is the type of homosexual relationship most common in the contemporary West. Egalitarian homosexuality occurs when two individuals of similar age and class form a homosexual relationship. For some reason, during the second half of the twentieth century, this has become the predominant form of homosexuality in the West, while transgender homosexuality has become rare. However, these two forms of homosexuality are not as different as they appear.Take Danny Ryan. Chances are that when he grows up he will be a gay man practicing egalitarian homosexuality. There is a smaller chance that he will become a woman, and if he does, his sex life will be of the transgender type. If Danny had been born among the Crow Native Americans during the 1800s, he would almost certainly have been made a member of the berdache. Egalitarian and transgender homosexuality are similar because they contain some similar people.Transgender homosexuality is rare in Western culture, but this is not because few men have the potential to be transgender homosexuals under the right circumstances. My research, which demonstrates a large degree of femininity among gay men, suggests rather that the Western gay community has plenty of men who would have been candidates for transgender homosexuality in cultures where this was the main type of homosexuality.The main difference between transgender and egalitarian homosexuality is that in transgender homosexuality, only one of the partners is truly gay. The partner in the feminine role is gay because “she”wants men. Furthermore “she” wants men who are masculine. What about these masculine men? Although they are in some sense engaged in homosexual behavior, because they are having sex with someone born a man, they do not view the transgendered partner as a man.Some view “her” as a woman; others as a member of a third gender, neither male nor female. The masculine partners prefer either women or males imitating women.In contrast, both the members of an egalitarian homosexual rela-tionship are gay. Both want masculine men. Neither partner in this kind of relationship would be excited to have a male partner pretending to be a female. Even if one of the partners would actually enjoy taking the feminine role—taking a female name, wearing a dress, pretending to be a woman, basically becoming a full-time drag queen—he would refrain in order to make his partner happy. If a gay man wants to attract straight men, he should imitate a woman. If he wants to attract gay men, he must stay a man.I think it is likely that many of the men on Halsted Street could have been members of the berdache or the hijras. Some may actually have been happier if they had been born into a society in which the transgendered role was more common. If Danny Ryan had been born into such a society, he would not have to throw off or hide his femininity. It would be a necessary part of his role. Some cultures with a prominent tradition of transgender homosexuality even help feminine boys into the transgendered role. But in the contemporary West, this doesn’t happen. Here, Danny must learn to act more like a boy, and he must become a man.Despite these pressures, a few males resist. They are reluctant to give up their ambition to become women, and they decide to pursue their dream. The rest of the book is about them.Part IIIWomen Who OnceWere BoysI t is 2 AM Sunday night (actually Monday morning) at Crobar, and Iam tired. I have had only limitedsuccess tonight recruiting research subjects for our study of drag queens and transsexuals and am cruising the huge club one more time before leaving. The Crobar crowd is on a different schedule than I; the place is just reaching its peak intensity. I pass a tall, attractive, black woman, who sees me staring at her, and somehow she understands what’s on my mind. “No, I’m real,” she laughs good-naturedly. (I am thankful that none of the dozen or so genetic females we mistakenly approached during the course of this study ever became hurt or angry. I wonder if they understood that the implication that we thought they might be transsexual was not an insult. Many of the transsexuals we interviewed in the course of the study were more attractive than the average genetic female.)I start upstairs to get the panoramic view and I see Kim for the first time, on the stairs, dancing, posing. She is spectacular, exotic (I find out later that she is from Belize), and sexy. Her body is incredibly curvaceous, which is a clue that it may not be natural. And I notice a very subtle and not-unattractive angularity of the face, which is also not clearly diagnostic on this tall siren. It is difficult to avoid viewing Kim from two perspectives: as a researcher but also as a single, heterosexual man. As I contemplate approaching her, I am influenced by considerations from each perspective. I have this strong intuition that I am correct about her, but if I am not, I might have the unpleasant experience of simultaneously insulting, and being rejected by, a beautiful woman.As I waver, I notice her companion, an attractive, blonde-haired, blue-eyed man whose body, amply displayed in a tight tank top, is the male analogue of Kim’s—he has a huge chest (hairless of course) and bulging biceps. They are a beautiful couple, or at least a couple of beautiful people. They dance together, occasionally smiling at each other, but they do not dance closely or in a way that betrays the sexual desire that virtually anyone would feel toward at least one of them. I remind myself that it is Sunday night “Glee Club”—gay night at Crobar. What would a gorgeous heterosexual couple be doing at Crobar tonight at 2 AM? In fact, however, this is a very trendy setting even among heterosexuals, particularly if one is unconventional and open-minded. (Dennis Rodman has been a regular.) I cannot decide whether Kim is transsexual, and in a tribute to her beauty, I decide for now not to approach her. If she is transsexual, I will have other chances to meet her, and I will probably also have the opportunity to find out from others without asking her directly. So I leave.Based on the frequency of their appearance on American talk shows—“Beautiful Women Who Used to be Men,” “My Wife Used to be a Man,” “My Husband Is a Woman,” “My Husband Has Become a Woman”—transsexuals might appear to constitute a sizeable minority.They do not. Fewer than 1 in 20,000 persons is transsexual. Most of us do not personally know a transsexual, although many of us have had the experience of wondering if a particular woman we have seen is actually a man, and most of us who have been to even a few gay bars have seen one. There are also transsexuals who work as waitresses, hairdressers, receptionists, strippers, and prostitutes, as well as in many other occupations, whom we might meet incidentally, without even questioning whether they might have once lived as men.Transsexuals appear frequently on daytime talk shows not because they are common, but because people find them fascinating, and because talk shows’ continued existence depends on their catering to people’s fascinations, no matter how elevating (or not) those may be. I have been asked to talk to respectable media as an expert on transsexualism regarding two cases: a race car driver who got a sex change, and a Chicago area teacher who was living as a man in the spring and assumed a female identity in the fall. Time magazine recently ran a story about the “transgendered,” and movies in recent years such as Priscilla: Queen of the Desert, The Crying Game, Ed Wood, Silence of theWomen Who Once Were Boys Lambs, and Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil, among others, have featured transsexuals and their like. Transsexuals are hot. I have discerned a few main themes in transsexual mania, which include:“What is it like to feel that you were born the wrong sex?”“What would it be like to become involved, knowingly or not, in a romantic relationship with a transsexual?”“Isn’t it amazing how convincing a woman she makes?Alternatively (but not in the same show),“Isn’t it strange to see that male-looking person proclaiming his inner femininity, dressed like a woman, and evidently somewhere in the process of obtaining a sex change, when he used to be married and work in a bank?”“What is involved in getting a sex change?”“Do transsexuals ever regret their surgery?”These are, indeed, all fascinating questions. And if they are less practically important than the question of how to reduce the national debt, some issues related to transsexualism do touch on fundamental issues about human nature. Unfortunately, the typical format in which these are discussed is designed to provoke rather than to illuminate.Moreover, it is not surprising that the typical television viewer has only superficial knowledge about transsexuals when many “experts”who make their livings working with them do not understand transsexuals very well.Most people—even those who have never met a transsexual—know the standard story of men who want to be women: “Since I can remember, I have always felt as if I were a member of the other sex. I have felt like a freak with this body and detest my penis. I must get sex reassignment surgery (a “sex change operation”) in order to match my external body with my internal mind.” But the truth is much more interesting than the standard story.Terminology is an important source of confusion. “Transsexualism” has many connotations, including “sex change,” “trapped in the wrong body,” “femininity” (in genetic males) or “masculinity” (in genetic females), and “cross-dressing.” Try to forget the connotations.All I mean by “transsexualism” is the desire to become a member of the opposite sex. An adult with transsexualism is a “transsexual.” These definitions say nothing about the motivation, appearance, or subsequent actions of the transsexual. They do not imply that the transsexual feels trapped in the wrong body, or that the transsexual even ultimately seeks sex reassignment.The definitions also allow different degrees of transsexualism. I have no desire to become a woman, and so I am not at all transsexual.But there is a range of transsexualism among people who do have such desires. There are people who would like to change sex if they could try it out for a while and change back if they chose. (I do not mean to include people who have whimsical thoughts about this.Only serious thoughts.) Some would change sex permanently if they did not have to give up important aspects of their lives (for example, their children) to do so. Others have no ambivalence, and might dedicate their lives to changing their sex to the point of apparent obsession, losing families, friends, and jobs in the process. All these people I have described are at least a little transsexual, but the latter are more transsexual than the former. “Transsexual” is not an either-or label.Even if we were to restrict the use of that word to those who take medical steps to change their sex, there would still be considerable variability. Some transsexuals merely undergo electrolysis; others take hormones; others get breast implants; and of course, others get an operation to simulate the genitalia of the other sex.Despite this variability, it is possible to get a handle on the psychology of male-to-female transsexualism. You just have to meet the right people—starting with some transsexuals, themselves.O ne way that the standard transsexual story is wrong is in its singularity.Two different types of men changetheir sex. To anyone who examines them closely, they are quite dis-similar, in their histories, their motivations, their degree of femininity, their demographics, and even the way they look. We know little about the causes of either type of transsexualism (though we have some good hunches about one type). But I am certain that when we finally do understand, the causes of the two types will be completely different.To anyone who has seen members of both types and who has learned to ask the right kinds of questions, it is easy to tell them apart.Yet the difference has eluded virtually everyone who cares about transsexuals: talk show hosts, journalists, most people who evaluate and treat them, and even most academics who have studied them. One reason is that the superficial similarity of the two types is so striking—both are men, usually dressed and attempting to act like women, who want to replace their penises with vaginas—that it prevents us from noticing more subtle, though also more fundamental, differences. Another reason is that the two types of transsexuals rarely show up side by side, where they would be easily distinguishable. In the United States in the third millennium, they do not use the same “gender clinics,” and although they often associate with other transsexuals, this is nearly always with their own type. The most interesting reason why most people do not realize that there are two types of transsexuals is that members of one type sometimes misrepresent themselves as members of the other. I will get more specific later, but for now, it is enough to say that they are often silent about their true motivation and instead tell stories about themselves that are misleading and, in important respects, false.The two types of transsexuals who begin life as males are called homosexual and autogynephilic. Once understood, these names are appropriate. Succinctly put, homosexual male-to-female transsexuals are extremely feminine gay men, and autogynephilic transsexuals are men erotically obsessed with the image of themselves as women. When most people hear “transsexual” they think of the homosexual transsexual, who fits the classic pattern. From soon after birth, the homosexual male-to-female transsexual behaves and feels like a girl. Unlike most feminine boys (such as Danny, from ), these transsexuals do not outgrow, or learn to hide, their femininity. Instead, they decide that the drastic step of changing their sex is preferable. They unambiguously desire and love men, especially heterosexual men, whom they can attract only as women. (I recognize that using the term “homosexual” to describe a type of transsexual is confusing. Transsexualism terminology is often confusing. I often have to think hard about whether to write “he” or “she,” for example. In this case, there is scientific precedent—“homosexual transsexualism” was proposed by the scientist who first discovered that there were two types of transsexuals. The term also is conceptually revealing, because one type of transsexual man is a kind of homosexual man. Read on; you’ll get used to it.)Honest and open autogynephilic transsexuals reveal a much different pattern. They were not especially feminine boys. The first overt manifestation of what led to their transsexualism was typically during early adolescence, when they secretly dressed in their mothers’ or sisters’ lingerie, looked at themselves in the mirror, and masturbated. This activity continued into adulthood, and sexual fantasies became increasingly transsexual—especially the fantasy of having a vulva, perhaps being penetrated by a penis. Autogynephilic transsexuals might declare attraction to women or men, to both, or to neither. But their primary attraction is to the women that they would become.These summaries are given here less to clarify than to organize the information that follows. Transsexualism—especially autogynephilic transsexualism—seems so foreign to most people that it requires a great deal of explanation. And illustration.So meet Cher and Terese, most extraordinary friends. Terese is shy, small, and very feminine. Cher is extra extroverted, tall, and in some ways strikingly masculine. Terese is Mexican-American, Cher Italian-American. Both Terese and Cher are transsexuals born boys, now women. The most unusual fact about them in my experience is that they are close friends and are different types of transsexuals; serious socializing between the two types is practically unheard of. Terese is a homosexual transsexual, and Cher is autogynephilic. Spend the day with them, listening to their stories and watching the way they behave, and the difference between homosexual and autogynephilic transsexualism will be forever etched in your mind.Terese was born Jose Garcia, in Mexico. His parents divorced when Jose was young, and he was raised by grandparents. They moved to Chicago when he was 10. From early childhood, Jose wanted to be a girl. “Why do girls get prettier things and why do they get to do the things I like to do?” he wondered. He knew, because everyone around him told him, that he was a boy. But that did not guide his behavior.He dressed up as a female as often as he could, played with dolls, wasthe “mommy” when playing house, and avoided the rough boy sports.His best friends were girls. (In all these senses, he was just like Danny, whom we met earlier. Danny probably will not become transsexual, though he will probably become a gay man. Why most very feminine boys grow up to be gay men and a few get sex changes is not known, though I’ll speculate about it later.) Although his friends were mainly girls, Jose was also intensely interested in boys, especially when he got to junior high. He began having crushes on them, especially the athletes, and even some of his male teachers. He never experienced sexual feelings for a girl or woman. When he was 13, an older boy initiated Jose into sex. Jose is certain that the older boy is now a gay man. He had several gay partners—Terese calls this her “gay boy” phase—but began to notice that he did not find other gay boys or men to be particularly attractive.They were too feminine. Jose was much more attracted to the straight men that he met. Also, Jose did not like it when others touched his penis (or even when he touched it himself). He preferred giving others oral sex, or being penetrated anally, though this latter activity frequently hurt.When he was 14, Jose found some gay friends with similar inclinations toward femininity. They began going out to parties, or shopping, in drag. It was fun to get away with cross-dressing. Jose was a late maturer, with a smooth complexion and no facial hair, so he passed well. And the straight men he met when in drag frequently pursued him. This was exciting but frustrating, because obviously, Jose could not let them complete their advances.Jose was lucky to be well liked at school so he was not teased as mercilessly as many very feminine boys. But his family was not happy with his development. His father met him after many years and told him to “stop acting like a girl.” His mother was also disturbed and worried that he would be gay. As he got older, he made more effort to appear masculine, though he kept his hair long. Pictures from this time show Jose to be a rather androgynous young man, but clearly a man.He did not feel more masculine, but merely put his femininity in the closet.Jose took a job at the Chicago Board of Options that required him to dress conservatively. During this time, he became depressed.He dreaded waking up and putting on a tie every day, and hiding his femininity was sufficiently stressful that his hair started falling out.One day at age 19, Jose was brooding about his future. His voice was finally deepening noticeably and he was getting facial hair. He decided that he could not live the rest of his life as a man, even if it meant being abandoned by his family. The next day, Jose began to live full time as a woman, and Terese was born. When she told her friends and family of her decision, her mother expressed relief rather than shock.She had known from early on that Terese’s identity was more feminine than masculine. Only one friend, a gay man, objected to Terese’s decision. He said that she was “selling out,” abandoning a gay identity because she could not deal with social ostracism. (Terese disagrees that this played any part in her decision.) Terese had learned over the years where homosexual transsexuals congregated (primarily gay bars and dance clubs as well as a few small bars that featured female impersonators), and she increasingly frequented those places. She felt more comfortable there, and she discovered that she could benefit from the cumulative knowledge of “girls”in her situation. For example, an important immediate consequence of her transition was her decision to begin taking the female hormone, estrogen, to prevent her body from becoming more masculine, and to feminize it. Other transsexuals told her where she could get estrogen on the black market and how much to take. (This was risky because estrogen can have serious side effects, although the worst ones, such as blood clots, are rare. In Chicago these days, though, most homosexual transsexuals do not bother with official medicine because physicians charge so much and because they are used to living beyond society’s rules.) She also learned about sex reassignment surgery, surgery to change the penis into a neo-vagina: how much surgery cost at different places and which surgeons did the best job.Terese had several sexual relationships during this time. In each case, the man assumed she was a non-transsexual female, and Terese did not initially tell him otherwise. She would interact sexually with him, having oral sex for instance. Only after she saw him several times, both of them growing more attached, and the issue of intercourse arose, would she consider telling him the truth. Twice, she risked honesty. Both times were traumatic, the men disappointed, angry, and re-pulsed, Terese hurt and afraid. Still, one of the men got used to the idea, and they continued romantically and sexually, for a while. During sex, Terese always behaved as a woman, and this partner never touched her penis. He continued to think of Terese as a woman, albeit an unusual one. Still, the relationship did not go anywhere, and the man did not treat Terese very well. She discovered that he had a steady girlfriend, for example. Although many naturally born women have been mistreated by men, Terese thinks the fact that she was a she-male (a woman with a penis) prevented men from committing to her.Terese lived as a woman for three years before she got enough money together (about $10,000) to get her operation. Part of the money was a loan from Cher, who had become one of her best friends.In July 1997, Terese (then 25) flew to Belgium and over a four-day period, had sex reassignment surgery, learned to care for her new vagina, and recovered sufficiently to leave the hospital. Within three months, her neo-vagina had healed, and she lost her neo-virginity soon after.In many ways Terese has blossomed since her surgery. She looks great. Not only do people fail to notice that she is a transsexual, but most men find her sexy and attractive. Depressed and in self-imposed isolation when I first saw her, she is flirtatious, energetic, and socially busy now. Among other things, she models lingerie. She has dated and had sex with several heterosexual men, none of whom knew about her past life. (She is still looking for a serious boyfriend.) Her mother is thrilled to have her new daughter. For one, she is relieved for Terese, knowing how much she wanted this. But she is also happy to have avery attractive feminine daughter rather than an unhappy and noticeably feminine son. When she visited Terese, she proudly took her new daughter shopping.In an attempt to make a new life for herself, Terese has distanced herself from her old transsexual friends. When she goes out to meet men, she does not want to have her secret revealed by being with people who are visually identifiable as transsexual, or who are widely known to be transsexual. This has caused varying degrees of difficulties with her old friends. Cher, for one, is deeply hurt, and they have fallen out as friends. However, even Cher admits that Terese’s new life appears to suit her.In important respects, Terese’s story is the story of all homosexual male-to-female transsexuals. Her early, extreme, and effortless femininity, her unambiguous preference for heterosexual men as sex partners, her (however brief) attempt to live as a gay man, and her difficulty in securing the right kind of guy prior to surgery, are almost universal among this type of transsexual. There are some differences among them, to be sure. For example, although Terese disliked her penis, some homosexual transsexuals not only like, but also use, their penises while they have them. Some, like Terese, alternate between unsatisfying and limited sexual relationships and self-imposed isolation; others earn good livings as she-male prostitutes (more on this later). These differences reflect differences in personality styles. Fundamentally, all homosexual transsexuals are similar, and after a bit of experience, easily distinguishable from the other type of transsexual.Cher, né Chuck Mondavi, was born in Chicago to lower middle-class parents. Cher remembers her father as a nervous, punitive, and eccentric man, who had a nervous breakdown when Chuck was young. Chuck was sometimes withdrawn and shy, but not feminine.He participated in boys’ sports and activities and had male friends.Cher remembers that Chuck had occasional wishes to be a girl asearly as age six. However, no one but Chuck knew of these, and no one else would have surmised this based on Chuck’s behavior.In late childhood or early adolescence, around the age of 12, Chuck was an altar boy at early mass. His parents went to mass later, giving Chuck free rein in the house. During this time, he began to dress secretly in his mother’s lingerie: panties, girdle, or bra. He would look at himself in the mirror, become increasingly sexually aroused, and then masturbate to orgasm. Sometimes when his parents were home, he would wear lingerie under his male clothing, look at the lingerie models in a Sears catalogue, and rub his penis against the bed, making sure to stop the activity when his mother entered the room.While looking at the catalogue, he imagined that he was the lingerie model. Chuck was artistic, and one early creation involved painting some coconut shells flesh color, and wearing them as breasts during cross-dressing.As his adolescence progressed, Chuck cross-dressed and masturbated at least once per week. He also masturbated while looking at Playboy, and his fantasies alternated between having sex with the centerfold and recreating her with his own body. As a senior in high school, he worked in a store that carried women’s clothing. One night he worked late, mopping floors, and as he noticed the hosiery and fishnet stockings, could not resist the urge to take some home to use in his cross-dressing sessions.Chuck attended an all-boys high school. Although Chuck might have been considered a bit eccentric, his classmates did not suspect that he was a cross-dresser. Cross-dressing was his secret life. He believed that his activities were unusual, and he was often ashamed of them, so when he went to college, Chuck tried to “purge” by not bringing clothes along. When he participated in a panty raid, and acquired several bras and pairs of panties, he hung them up in his room as trophies. When his roommate left their dorm room, Chuck gave in to his urge to cross-dress.His artistic creativity was flourishing. He won a painting competi-tion and the art faculty began to buy his paintings. He kept quirky hours, working at all hours of the night at a studio, where he could usually cross-dress in private. He ultimately dropped out of college because he thought he could make it as an artist. Cher refers to what followed as Chuck’s “bum period.” During this time, Chuck began feeling depressed about cross-dressing because it made him feel “freakish” and “lonely.” (Chuck was still a virgin, and did not have an active dating life.) He sought behavior modification therapy and stopped cross-dressing for about five years. During this time, he met and confided in a psychologist, who, Cher believes, wanted to cure Chuck, and they became romantically involved. At age 33, Chuck lost his virginity. Chuck did not find the relationship gratifying, however, and it did not last.After the break-up, Chuck was driving through a poor neighborhood and noticed a wig in a garbage can. He stopped the car and waited, struggling with the intense urge to get out and get the wig. He drove on, but after a few blocks the urge was so intense that he drove back to the garbage can and collected the wig. Oddly, there were other items of women’s clothing with the wig—Cher suspects that Chuck had stumbled on the results of a cross-dresser’s recent purge.Soon after this, Chuck made peace with cross-dressing and stopped worrying whether it was normal or acceptable.This began a period in Chuck’s life marked by a devotion to cross-dressing that was both obsessive and highly creative. He began collecting pornography that featured pictorial stories of women in various stages of dress and undress (nurses, stewardesses, and so on). He searched junk clothing stores and clothing catalogues to recreate their costumes, and cross-dressed and fantasized about them in private.Chuck’s fantasies began to involve more than looking like a woman. Increasingly, he began to fantasize about having a vagina, and about being penetrated by a man. He was not attracted to any specific man, and he did not fantasize about specific men, only faceless men, and their penises. He enjoyed the fantasy of being physically dominated, as well as vaginally penetrated, by a man.His activities also progressed. He used a coke bottle to penetrate his anus, fantasizing that it was a penis penetrating his vagina. Chuck’s artistic talents began to come into play. He constructed a “robot man”that could fulfill the fantasy of penetration. “Robot man” had a body, a penis made of a dildo, and even an arm that Chuck could manipulate to make it feel as if it was stroking his back. Chuck attached a mirror to his bedroom ceiling, and could view the image of the robot man on top of Chuck, dressed as a woman, “penis” in Chuck’s anus.Chuck also began to take more elaborate steps to create the image of himself as a woman. He wore fake breasts and a feminine mask.(Chuck still had a beard.) He purchased several fake vaginas from adult bookstores. Although these are made for heterosexual men to view and penetrate, Chuck reversed that function. Born with one testicle, he discovered that he could invert his penis and scrotum into his body. He then glued a fake vagina over his inverted genitals. Ever the artist (and an exhibitionist as well), Chuck frequently videotaped himself as a woman. In one segment, Chuck begins by standing “naked” (except for shoes) with mask and fake breasts and fake vagina. As Donna Summer sings “Love to Love You Baby” in the background, Chuck begins to walk toward the camera, somewhat awkwardly in high heels. Cut to Chuck, similarly “dressed,” astride a dildo (which is anally penetrating him, though the image is constructed to look as if the penetration is vaginal), with the soundtrack (from a porno film) of a woman’s sexual moaning.These activities, and the fantasies they fulfilled, were enormously erotic to Chuck, and they were all-consuming. He spent all night cross-dressing and enacting fantasies, and slept all day. He had abandoned art (except for his artistic contributions to his sexual fantasies).His family was concerned, because they felt that he was physically neglecting himself. He did not bathe regularly, for example, and others complained that he stank. Most of Chuck’s physical energies were devoted to cross-dressing and related sexual activity. Cher recalls that once when Chuck was cross-dressed and having sex with “robot man,”the ceiling mirror partially detached and hit him in the head. He wondered what people would have thought if he had been killed and his body subsequently discovered. He began to doubt his sanity, but could not stop. He was becoming seriously depressed. He was lonely, and disgusted with what he felt was his own narcissism.Soon after this, he sought treatment for depression. He confided in a psychiatrist about his secret life. By coincidence, the psychiatrist had worked with John Money, the eminent sex researcher. He suggested that Chuck might be a transsexual rather than “merely” a transvestite (or heterosexual cross-dresser). Subsequently, Chuck was assessed at a gender clinic in Wisconsin, where he was diagnosed a transsexual. This was an enormous relief and he felt that his obsessions were now more explicable. Chuck now knew what he wanted to do with his life: become a woman and have sex with other people rather than by himself. He dismantled “robot man” and began to plan for his transition.Cher (named for the performer, whom Cher feels she resembles) was born in 1991. Her mother had died by then, but her dying father accepted her decision in good spirits. His death later that year gave Cher the inheritance she needed to pay for her surgery. One year and a day after Chuck became Cher, Cher got sex reassignment surgery in Montreal. She was 40 years old. By then, both parents were dead, and many of her remaining family rejected her. (This was due in part to disagreement about the disposition of her father’s estate.) Despite this, for the most part Cher has been happier than Chuck was. She is more outgoing and feels that she lives a real life now, instead of a fantasy life.Despite her negative experiences with her family, many other people have accepted her. For example, she attended the 25th reunion of her all male high school class—as a woman. Pictures of that event clearly show that her classmates enjoyed and admired her. She continues to play the dulcimer in the Irish folk music group she helped form as a man; her fellow musicians have no problem with this.During the time between Cher’s birth and her full transition, shehad sex with several men, always involving their penetrating her anally.Always, in these experiences she thought of herself as a woman rather than a man. Although she remained attracted to women, she did not manage to have sex with any. Cher insists that once Chuck became Cher, the sexual focus was no longer a self-image, but other people.After her sex change, she had vaginal sex with several men. Nevertheless, she complains about her sex life and has not had a partner lately.Many men can tell that she is transsexual, and Cher insists on being honest about her past before becoming sexually involved. The fact that Cher used to be Chuck is a problem for most men. Some men are simply rude and cruel to her. Unlike many of her friends, Cher is unwilling to engage in casual sex with men (or women) and is waiting for someone who wants to spend time with her and date her. When she gets sexually aroused, she still masturbates simulating intercourse with a dildo while looking in a mirror; now the dildo penetrates her vagina rather than her anus.I have never met anyone quite like Cher before. This is in part because Cher is a character, and she would be a character even if it were not for her unusual sex life and sex change. She is eccentric, talkative, and exhibitionistic. (One of the most strangely hilarious experiences I have ever witnessed was Cher lecturing to a group of gifted adolescents about transsexualism. She began dressed as a rough-talking man and eventually stripped down to Cher, in a bikini. I will never forget the wide-open, 16-year-old mouths.) Although some elements of Cher’s story are very common to this kind of transsexual (especially the erotic cross-dressing), others (such as the wearing of fake vaginas) are unique to her. At least I have never met other transsexuals who admitted to this. Nevertheless, I think that Cher is a wonderful example of the second kind of transsexualism, less because she is representative than because she openly and floridly exemplifies the essential feature of this type, which is autogynephilia.Men Trapped inMen’s BodiesR ay Blanchard, Head of the Clinical Sexology Program of the Clarke Institute of Psychiatry in Toronto,knows more about transsexualism than just about anyone else. Like so many sex researchers, Blanchard’s introduction to sex research was fortuitous rather than intentional. A rat psychologist by training, his first job was as a clinical psychologist at the Ontario Correctional Institute. He worked full time evaluating and treating inmates and was miserable. “I didn’t want to spend 100 percent of my time as a front-line clinician. I wanted to make a scientific contribution. Plus, the prison environment was stressful, if never dull.” During that time, the eminent sex researcher, Kurt Freund, consulted at the hospital. Someone suggested that they meet, and during their first conversation, they made plans to collaborate. In 1980 Blanchard took a job at the Clarke, where he has remained, recently taking Freund’s position after his death.Blanchard is irreverent, cynical, and politically incorrect. During the opening ceremony of the International Academy of Sex Research, during the eulogies for members who died during the previous year, he regularly engages in wickedly entertaining whispered commentary about the deceased, unsentimentally recalled. (His eulogy for Freund, however, was serious and touching.) He has little patience for arguments about whether research is good for people (such as “Are homosexual people hurt or harmed by research on the genetics of sexual orientation?”), preferring instead to dwell on whether scientific findings are true. A transsexual colleague of Blanchard’s tells how she once sought his advice regarding a professional dilemma. A member of a task force about transsexualism, she disliked the first draft of their report, but was worried she would offend the other (non-transsexual) members of the committee. Blanchard’s characteristic advice: “What’s the point of being a sacred cow if you don’t moo?”Academics remember each other by their “contributions,” or ideas that make a mark, ideas that get the attention of other academics, motivating others to study the same thing. Blanchard has made two contributions so far. His most recent work has shown convincingly that gay men tend to have more older brothers compared with heterosexual men, and he is pursuing an interesting biological theory to account for this. But I think his more revolutionary contribution has been to the classification and explanation of transsexualism. In a series of articles beginning in 1985 and continuing for about a decade, Blanchard established that there are two very different types of men who change into women, who have very different presentations, motivations, and probably, causes. Blanchard’s observations transformed male-to-female transsexualism from a seemingly chaotic and bizarre collection of phenomena into two straightforward and clinically comprehensible patterns.When Ray Blanchard began studying and treating transsexualsduring the early 1980s, the field was rife with different confusing diagnostic typologies, including anywhere from one to four kinds of transsexuals. At a merely descriptive level, most clinicians saw a similar array of gender patients. First was the kind of transsexual that most of us think of when we hear “transsexual,” the classic, homosexual type, like Terese. From soon after birth, these males behaved like, and desired to be, female. No one who spent much time with them could be very surprised that eventually they would choose sex reassignment surgery.Of all transsexual types, this was the one that most seemed to consist of “wo.”Another type of transsexual that specialists recognized, but which is less familiar and comprehensible to most people, was the heterosexual transsexual. These males frequently came to treatment as married men who claimed to have had hidden or suppressed longstanding wishes to be female that they could no longer deny. The clinical picture of this type was much different than the homosexual transsexual. Obviously, of course, one was attracted to men and the other to women, but there was another striking difference. Most heterosexual transsexuals, and virtually no homosexual transsexuals, reported a phase beginning during adolescence in which they secretly wore women’s clothing such as lingerie, became sexually aroused, and masturbated.Cher has a history that is characteristic of many heterosexual transsexuals. However, she has had sexual fantasies about both men and women, and has had sex with both. She is bisexual.There was at least one other type of transsexual that experts wrote about, one that presented a much fuzzier picture. This was a transsexual type whose sexuality was either unclear or absent. These transsexuals claimed to be attracted to neither women nor men, and some of them claimed to have no sexual feelings at all. Some called this type“asexual.”To make matters more complicated, there were at least two other types of men who cross-dressed, but who did not want sex changes.Drag queens were gay men who cross-dressed in public, often for thepurpose of entertainment (especially lip synching and dancing to music). Transsexualism researchers knew that drag queens existed but did not know much about them because drag queens did not often seek treatment for their cross-dressing; it caused them no problems. The other group of men who cross-dressed were called transvestites. These were heterosexual men, typically married, who dressed in women’s clothing without any intention of getting a sex change. Like heterosexual transsexuals, they frequently acknowledged an erotic component to their cross-dressing, at least during adolescence. The official psychiatric diagnostic manual of the time, The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM III-R) called heterosexual transvestism “transvestic fetishism,” and put it in an entirely different section of disorders from transsexualism. The diagnostic label implied that transvestites are motivated by an erotic connection to women’s clothing.Heterosexual transvestites are an important part of this story, and they are probably far more common than transsexuals (no one knows for sure). So before proceeding, let’s meet one.Stephanie Braverman is, despite the name, a 50-ish married man who holds a high-level position in a national bank, and whose wife is a well-known administrator in a local university. When Stephanie is a man—which is most of the time—that man is named “Don.” I have never met Don. Stephanie always looks the same, dressed in tastefully elegant style—wig, makeup, and all—as a middle-aged matron. After reading about my interest in gender in a newspaper article, Stephanie called me to “educate” me about heterosexual cross-dressers. We have met several times, and I have learned much. Still, we disagree fundamentally (if good-naturedly) about many things related to cross-dressing. One thing we mostly agree on, however, is her basic story.Stephanie remembers Don having early (age six or so), vague wishes to be a girl, but does not think that others found him remarkably feminine. In adolescence, Don periodically wore his mother’s lin-gerie, looked in a mirror, and masturbated. He felt ashamed and guilty about cross-dressing and tried to stop several times, but each time was unable to refrain for long. In his early 20s, he met the woman he would marry. Before proposing, he told her about his cross-dressing and said that he intended to stop. His future wife, in love with him by then, did not even pause to reconsider her commitment. They have had, by most appearances, a successful marriage, with three children.Several times, during the marriage, Don “purged,” throwing away all his women’s clothing and vowing to quit cross-dressing. (Over all his purges, Don probably threw away several thousand dollars worth of clothing.) Following each purge, he felt relieved and virtuous for a time, but these feelings eventually transformed into irritability, tension, and despair. Each time, Don gave in to his cross-dressing urges. After his last (and final, Stephanie hopes) purge attempt failed, he sought counseling, and his therapist helped him find the Chicago chapter of the Society for the Second Self (or Tri-Ess), an organization for heterosexual cross-dressers. Stephanie has become a leader in the chapter and speaks frequently (and always as Stephanie) to college students and other receptive audiences. She wants ultimately to diminish the stigma felt by cross-dressers.Stephanie claims that the erotic component of cross-dressing was never Don’s primary motivation—which was the expression of an inner femininity—and that he rarely feels aroused any more when cross-dressed. Once in a while, a glimpse in the mirror of how good Don looks as Stephanie (especially his legs) gives him an erection, but this is more annoying than satisfying. Stephanie insists that the primary benefit of cross-dressing these days is relaxation. When business and family duties prevent Don from cross-dressing for much longer than two weeks, he feels tense and irritable. To me it sounds as if Don’s cross-dressing was at one time primarily sexually motivated, and indeed I suspect it still is to a large extent. This is our ongoing argument and I will return to it.Diagnosis can advance by either splitting or lumping. Splitting occurs when someone notices two or more superficially similar conditions that had previously been called the same thing. The history of medical diagnosis has mostly been a story about splitting. Some early classification systems, for example, included the category “fever,” which subsumed every problem that caused a temperature. In contrast, modern diagnosis distinguishes thousands of conditions that cause fever, from chicken pox to Ebola.More rarely, diagnosis progresses by lumping. Lumping occurs when two or more apparently different conditions are found to be different forms of the same, underlying pathology. In the early history of AIDS, doctors noticed an increase in a variety of seemingly unrelated conditions, such as pneumocystitis carinii pneumonia, Kaposi’s sarcoma, and cytomegalovirus retinitis, among gay men. Eventually, they hypothesized that these were all consequences of the same infection, and when it was possible to test for HIV, its presence was confirmed in virtually all cases.Ray Blanchard’s contribution to transsexual science was of the lumping variety. Distinguishing “homosexual,” “heterosexual,” “bisexual,” and “asexual” transsexuals diagnostically makes sense only if the different types have fundamentally different causes. Otherwise, why not distinguish “tall,” “medium-sized,” and “short” transsexuals, or“blonde” and “brunette” subtypes? Blanchard noticed some similarities between some of the subtypes that made him suspect that they were fundamentally similar. In particular, the homosexual subtype seemed different from all the others, who seemed similar in important respects. (In order to avoid wordiness, he called the heterosexual, bisexual, and asexual transsexuals the “nonhomosexual” transsexuals.) For one, the nonhomosexual types were older when they came to the Clarke Institute for treatment. This was partly due to the fact that many of them had postponed their gender concerns to raise families.But even the asexual subtype, who was typically unmarried, came to treatment later than the homosexual subtype. On average, the nonhomosexual types showed up at the Clarke eight years later than the homosexual type. The nonhomosexual types also gave somewhat different childhood histories than the homosexual type, who universally acknowledged marked and noticeable femininity from early on.In contrast, many of the nonhomosexual types said that they were unremarkably masculine boys, though they typically reported early memories of secret longing to be girls.The most noteworthy difference between the homosexual and nonhomosexual transsexuals concerned cross-dressing. Homosexual transsexuals recalled that they cross-dressed from early on, but few of them reported that cross-dressing provoked a sexual response. Most nonhomosexual transsexuals admitted sexual arousal to cross-dressing, at least in the past. Even the asexual subtype did so.Blanchard made a good case that “heterosexual,” “bisexual,” and“asexual” transsexuals were more like each other than like homosexual transsexuals, and he suspected that they were subtypes of a more general condition. But what general condition? Then Blanchard saw a patient named Philip, who proved to be the exception that revealed the rule.Philip was a 38-year-old, unmarried, business executive who was referred to the Clarke Institute of Psychiatry because of the persistent wish to be a woman, accompanied by depression that he was not one.Philip was a happy, masculine boy, who was popular and competent.Philip had cross-dressed only once in his life, at age six. Although he lived alone and could cross-dress easily, he simply had no desire to do so. Since puberty, he had masturbated fantasizing that he was a nude woman, lying alone in his bed. He would focus on the picture of having breasts, a vagina, and other female physical characteristics. Although Philip had had sex with several women, there were indications that this was not especially rewarding to him. In his only long-term relationship, he stopped having sex with his girlfriend after only a fewmonths. In his last time with a woman, he had difficulty getting an erection. He has never had sex with a man. However, he had begun to fantasize about having intercourse with a man, as a woman. The man in his fantasies was a faceless abstraction rather than a real person.Philip never fantasized about having gay sex with a man, as a man.Philip was near the borderline of nonhomosexual transsexualism, but he lacked a cardinal sign of that disorder, a history of erotic cross-dressing. It dawned on Blanchard that what Philip had in common with most nonhomosexual transsexuals, as well as cross-dressers for that matter, was sexual arousal at the idea of himself as a woman. This strange sexual desire—for oneself to be transformed into a woman—seemed to be the fundamental motivation for nonhomosexual transsexualism. Blanchard called it “autogynephilia” (pronounced Otto-guy-nuh-feel-ee-ya). “Gynephilia” means attraction to women, and “auto” means self. Autogynephilia accounts for a variety of phenomena that seem otherwise disconnected.Take cross-dressing. At the time that Blanchard came up with autogynephilia, the prevailing explanation of erotic cross-dressing was that it was like a fetish, a mere association of sexual arousal with inanimate objects. But there were obvious problems with this conceptualization. Most men find garter belts and bras to be sexy, probably because of their association with scantily clad women, but most men do not put them on and look at themselves in the mirror. Nor do cross-dressers merely wear women’s clothing. While cross-dressed, they typically pretend to be women: taking female names, trying to walk and sometimes talk like women. According to Blanchard, even cross-dressers who do not want to change their sex have autogynephilia, which they share with nonhomosexual transsexuals. This is sensible because during the teenage years, it is probably impossible to distinguish males who will become nonhomosexual transsexuals from those who will remain cross-dressers. They are all autogynephiles.Autogynephilia also accounts for the homosexual-like fantasies of some autogynephilic (i.e., nonhomosexual) transsexuals. These fanta-sies are quite unlike the homosexual fantasies of gay men and homosexual transsexuals. They do not focus on characteristics of the male partner, but on the transsexual’s female self interacting with the male.Stephanie, the cross-dresser, once told me a fantasy she had been having about me. In her fantasy, I would treat her “like a lady”—take her out to a nice restaurant and then out dancing. She reassured me that she did not want to do anything sexual with me (and I had never sensed that she was sexually attracted to me). As she told me about the fantasy, however, it was clearly an erotic one. But in contrast to gay men’s fantasies about other men, I was merely a prop in Stephanie’s; I could have been any male. Even in more explicitly sexual fantasies, the male usually has no face, just a penis and body, which penetrates the imagined vagina. To many autogynephiles, the act of being penetrated by a penis is the ultimate statement that one is a woman, and this is perhaps why it is so arousing to some autogynephiles (such as Cher).Blanchard noticed different forms of autogynephilia in the different patients he saw. Some patients were sexually aroused by cross-dressing, others by the fantasy that they were pregnant, others by the fantasy that they had breasts, and others by the fantasy that they had vaginas. One patient even masturbated while fantasizing about knitting in a circle of other knitting women or being at the hairdresser’s with other women.Blanchard hypothesized that the type of autogynephilia that a man has should predict whether the man would become transsexual. A cross-dresser with only transvestitic or behavioral autogynephilia can probably satisfy his urges by periodically cross-dressing in private or in the company of other transvestites. But a man whose primary fantasy is having a vulva cannot enact his fantasy so easily. (Not everyone is as creative as Cher, and eventually, wearing fake vaginas did not work for her either.) Blanchard confirmed that, indeed, it was men who fantasized about themselves as nude women, and who focused on the image of having a vulva, who felt the strongest desire to change their sex.He also found that patients who fantasized about themselves as nudewomen were younger at their first appointment compared with those patients who fantasized about themselves wearing women’s clothing.This suggests that autogynephilic transsexualism is not merely a progression from cross-dressing. If it were, the patients who fantasized about cross-dressing should have been younger, not older (because by the incorrect interpretation, they would not have yet advanced to the“nude fantasizing” stage of their condition).Once Blanchard asked a group of autogynephilic transsexuals:“Suppose you had the following choice. You could get your sex reassignment surgery but continue to live as a man forever or live as a woman but never obtain sex reassignment surgery. Which would you do?” About half of the group chose each alternative. Those whose autogynephilia focused on the vagina chose the surgery, and those focused on the female role chose the role change. Of course, most autogynephilic transsexuals want both.How are we to think of autogynephilic men? Are they more like gay men, or like heterosexual men? Do they really have a woman hidden inside them? If so, why do they hide their inner femininity, when some gay men, drag queens, and homosexual transsexuals are extremely and openly feminine from an early age?The word “autogynephilia” is difficult, even jarring, and this is appropriate—the concept it names is bizarre to most people. In order to understand autogynephilia, it is important to recognize that it differs so much from ordinary experience that it cannot be understood simply. For example, even heterosexual people can understand homosexuality by thinking, more or less accurately, “It’s just as if I were attracted to my own sex instead of the other sex.” Autogynephiles are more difficult to fathom.Blanchard believes that autogynephilia is best conceived as misdi-rected heterosexuality. These men are heterosexual, but due to an error in the development of normal heterosexual preference, the erotic tar-get (a woman) gets located on the inside (the self) rather than the outside. This is speculative, and what causes the developmental error is anyone’s guess.Autogynephilia is not primarily a disorder of gender identity, except in the obvious sense that the goal of the transsexual is to become the other sex. At the cross-dressers’ meeting I attended, the wife of one of the men asked me: “When they say they feel like women, how do they know what that feels like?” This question, which reflected the woman’s skepticism about the men’s account, is profound. How do we ever know that we are like someone else? Unless you believe in extrasensory perception (and I don’t), the answer must be found in overt behavior that somehow signals fundamental similarity. Evidently, the woman did not get those signals from the men. (If instead of being the wife of an autogynephile, she were the sister of a homosexual transsexual, I doubt she would have asked an analogous question.) The fact is that despite their obsession with becoming women, auto-gynephilic transsexuals are not especially feminine. One told me, for example:I had a fairly early onset (certainly before age six) of an intense desire to be a girl (or “like a girl”) physically; or to put it another way, to be female—but not necessarily to take on the feminine gender role. This took different forms as I grew older. To a six-year-old, the difference between boys and girls physically is not primarily genital: girls wear long hair and dresses, and that’s what I wanted. As I got older, I grew to want other things: breasts, a vagina, menstruation, pregnancy. In the early stages the dysphoria wasn’t painful, like a wound; it was more like a yearning for the unobtainable, like a thirst I couldn’t quench.However, I didn’t play with dolls, nor do many of the traditional feminine things that the classic primaries often report. I didn’t like to compete ath-letically, and I was always afraid of getting hurt; but I liked model cars and airplanes, and toy guns, too.This contrasts greatly with the childhood histories of homosexual transsexuals, whose femininity was remarkable to anyone who observed them closely. Nor are autogynephiles especially feminine adults.After all, most have been married, and to most observers, appear to be conventional husbands. Autogynephiles rarely have stereotypically female occupations. On the contrary, many have served in the military. I even met one who was in the Green Berets. Technological and scientific careers seem to me to be over-represented among autogynephiles.(Ray Blanchard remarked to me that he saw a seemingly close relation between autogynephilia and computer nerdiness.) Autogynephiles have claimed that they chose stereotypically masculine occupations to hide their feminine side, but I doubt this. It seems more consistent with the overall picture to say that autogynephilia is not associated with stereotypically feminine interests. Finally, autogynephiles do not typically look or act very feminine, especially in comparison with homosexual transsexuals. To the extent that autogynephiles achieve a feminine presentation, it is with great effort. Cross-dressers attend workshops in talking, walking, standing, and gesturing like women.The work usually pays off eventually in a passable feminine presentation, but it is work.Autogynephiles are not “wo.” (Anne Lawrence, a physician and sex researcher who is herself a postoperative transsexual, has called them “.”) Homosexual transsexuals, so naturally feminine from early on, can make this claim more accurately, but as we shall see, it is not completely true even of them. Autogynephiles are men who have created their image of attractive women in their own bodies, an image that coexists with their original, male selves. The female self is a man-made creation.They visit the female image when they want to have sex, and some became so attached to the female image that they want it to become their one, true self. This explains the name of the transvestite organization “Society for the Second Self.” It also explains the maddening tendency of some autogynephilic research subjects to put down two answers to every question—one by the female self, and one by the male self. Homosexual transsexuals do not do this. They have one self that is a mixture of masculine and feminine traits, and not alternatingselves. No, autogynephiles are not wo.They are men who desperately want to become women.We do not have even the beginnings of a respectable theory of the causes of autogynephilia. This differs from sexual orientation, in which we have a reasonably well articulated if unproven theory. Recall from Chapters 3 and 6 that femininity in boys and homosexuality in men are probably caused by incomplete masculinization of the brain during sexual differentiation.Autogynephilia in the form of cross-dressing is still called“transvestic fetishism” in the DSM IV-TR, and many people have suggested that fetishism arises as a kind of conditioning experience. As the guy at the cross-dressers’ meeting put it, panties are sexy, so some men become aroused wearing them. The problem with this account is that although it might explain a fetish for panties, it does not explain why men should want to wear the panties. Conditioning explanations of both sexual preferences and fears (the other domain where they are common) have received little convincing support, although many people believe them. Blanchard’s conceptualization of cross-dressing, as arousal by an image of oneself as a woman, is very different from the idea of a fetish. Conceptualized Blanchard’s way, it is difficult to see how cross-dressing could arise through conditioning.Some autogynephiles claim that their first cross-dressing experience was in the context of being punished (usually by some female friend or relative, who forced them to cross-dress to humiliate them), and that this is how they acquired their taste for cross-dressing. I find these reports dubious. They sound more like fantasies or attempts to explain their behavior in ways that sound plausible to others. In any case, the fact that most autogynephiles do not claim these experiences suggests that they cannot be causally crucial.Regarding the fundamental question of whether autogynephiles are born or made, my intuitions are with “born.” Perhaps every day inthis country, at least one adolescent boy secretly puts on his mother’s or sister’s lingerie for the first time, becomes sexually aroused, and masturbates. As far as anyone can tell, there is nothing unusual about the environments of these boys, and certainly nothing in their environments obviously contributes to their unusual preoccupation. This smells innate to me. (I do not claim to be making a strong case here.) Anecdotally, I have heard several accounts of first-degree relatives (brothers, or fathers and sons) who discovered that both were cross-dressers. The discovery was invariably after both relatives had a great deal of cross-dressing experience that they had hidden from each other. This smells genetic to me. Again, though, this is not meant to be a strong argument.Autogynephilic cross-dressing usually begins in late childhood or early adolescence, but this does not mean that it is not biological.(Pubic hair also begins at adolescence.) Some autogynephiles claim that they have early memories of their condition, such as the desire to be female. I have tended to be skeptical about these memories, but a recent case seen by psychologist Ken Zucker at the Clarke Institute has made me more open-minded. This was a three-year-old boy whose mother had brought him in to the clinic because of his cross-dressing, which she first observed at around age two. According to the mother, the boy wore her or his sisters’ underwear, lingerie, slips, and nighties.The mother also reported that (at age three!) he got erections when looking at women’s clothing in magazine advertisements, and he would demand that she buy the items he was viewing. His cross-dressing was sporadic, rather than continuous, and it did not appear to reflect early femininity—he did not say he wanted to be a girl or have other feminine interests, for example. The most fascinating development came when Zucker interviewed the father, who admitted that he had cross-dressed erotically since adolescence. There was no indication that the boy had ever seen his father do this or had any opportunity to learn the behavior from him. I predict (as does Zucker) that when he grows up, the boy is very likely to have some variety of autogynephilia. Hisearly onset also smells biological, though as I stressed, early onset is not a necessary component of innate behavior.Highly relevant to the nature-nurture question is whether autogynephilia has occurred in most cultures and times. In fact, there is only very limited evidence about its occurrence prior to Magnus Hirschfeld’s classic work, Die Transvestiten, published in 1910. There are a few more-or-less definitive accounts, such as the Abbé de Choisy, who lived in France from 1644 until 1724. Although the historical record does not document Choisy’s masturbatory habits (he was, after all, a cleric), it is clear that he was a heterosexual cross-dresser. He was romantically drawn to women, whom he preferred dressed as men. In fact, he once arranged a marriage ceremony in which he dressed as the bride, and the woman as the groom. He clearly experienced cross-dressing, and particularly being admired as a woman, as erotic. He had periods in which he felt guilty about his unusual preoccupation and purged, just as contemporary cross-dressers do.The cross-cultural occurrence of autogynephilia has not been well established (in contrast to homosexual transsexualism, which has been).This is not surprising. It is probably rare, secretive, and poorly understood. On the other hand, I expect that it occurs everywhere.Blanchard has seen autogynephilic transsexualism in immigrants from Europe and Asia.In order to progress scientifically toward the causes of autogynephilia, it will be useful to keep in mind that autogynephilia seems to be a type of paraphilia. Paraphilias comprise a set of unusual sexual preferences that include autogynephilia, masochism, sadism, exhibitionism (i.e., exposing one’s genitals to strangers for sexual excitement), frotteurism (rubbing oneself against strangers, such as in a crowded bus, for sexual excitement), necrophilia, bestiality, and pedophilia. Because some of these preferences (especially pedophilia) are harmful, I hesitated to link them to autogynephilia, which is not harmful. But there are two reasons to think that these sexual preferences have some causes in common. First, all paraphilias occur exclusively(or nearly exclusively) in men. Second, paraphilias tend to go together.If a man has one paraphilia, then his chances of having any other paraphilia seem to be highly elevated. The best established link is between autogynephilia and masochism. There is a dangerous masochistic practice called “autoerotic asphyxia,” in which a man strangles himself, usually by hanging, for sexual reasons. Although autoerotic asphyxiasts arrange an escape hatch—for example, a well-placed stool they can stand on before it’s too late—sometimes things go wrong.Perhaps 100 American men per year die in this way. About one-fourth of the time, these men are found wearing some article of women’s clothing, such as panties. There is no obvious reason why autoerotic asphyxia should require cross-dressing. Apparently, these men are both masochistic and autogynephilic. Cross-dressing has also been linked to sexual sadism—although most autogynephiles are not sexual sadists, they are more likely to be sadists compared with men who are not autogynephilic.Paraphilias tend to seem bizarre to typical gay and straight people, whose sexual desires are primarily directed toward conventional sex acts with adults. Social explanations of paraphilias tend to be strained and unconvincing. What kind of experiences would make men risk their lives to become sexually aroused from being strangled while wearing panties? I’m betting on biology.My gut feelings may say as much about my biases as they do about the evidence, which is admittedly scanty. Other people might look at the same evidence and reach the opposite conclusion. However, no one could honestly and competently say that we are anywhere close to understanding the causes of autogynephilia, or more generally, paraphilias.“Most gender patients lie,” says Maxine Petersen, the ace gender clinician at the Clarke. One common lie among autogynephiles, according to Petersen, is that they are homosexual rather than hetero-sexual. The motivation for that lie is probably the fear that a gender clinic will deny them a sex change if they are determined to be heterosexual. And indeed, some psychiatrists have taken the position that nonhomosexual transsexuals are uniquely inappropriate for sex reassignment because they are not “true” transsexuals.* Autogynephiles who claimed to be homosexual transsexuals could account for the apparent cases of homosexual transsexuals who practiced erotic cross-dressing. Other common lies, according to Petersen and others, include an exaggeration of early femininity. This might in some cases have the same motivation.The most common way that autogynephiles mislead others is by denying the erotic component of their gender bending. For example, when Stephanie Braverman lectures to my human sexuality class, she does not even mention her history of masturbating while cross-dressed.When I spoke at a meeting of Chicago cross-dressers, the men became clearly uncomfortable when I brought up the erotic component of their activity, preferring instead to attribute it to their inner femininity.When I pointed this out, one cross-dresser said “I wear feminine clothing because I feel feminine, and I can’t help getting aroused because the clothes are sexy. Any man would.” I don’t think so. But you can judge. Here is one of the passages that aroused the cross-dressers in Blanchard’s study. See if you think it is sexy.You have plenty of time to dress this evening. You slip your panties over your ankles and pull them up to your waist. Sitting on the edge of your bed, you put on a pair of sheer nylon stockings. You fasten the stockings with the snaps of your lacy garter belt. You slip your arms through the straps of your brassiere and reach behind you to fasten it. You put on your eye shadow,*The Clarke Institute does not discriminate against autogynephiles and, indeed, Blanchard wrote an uncharacteristically impassioned passage in one article urging readers not to use his findings to justify such discrimination. However, as recently as 1989, Blanchard and his colleagues from the Clarke opined that “heterosexual applicants for sex reassignment should be evaluated with particular caution” because of an increased likelihood of postoperative regret.mascara, and lipstick. Lying on your bed, you look up at your reflection in the large mirror on the ceiling.Why do some autogynephiles deny the sexual component of their condition? One reason, again, is the real or imagined treatment implications. Some psychiatrists refuse to recommend for sex reassignment any man who has had even one incident of erotic cross-dressing. But this fear surely cannot explain the resistance of Stephanie Braverman and the cross-dressers at the meeting—they are not trying to become women.Perhaps the major reason is shame and assumed social reaction.The physician Harry Benjamin, who popularized the word “transsexual,” noticed early on that cross-dressers, and especially cross-dressers in organizations trying to influence the public, tend to de-emphasize the erotic element. He suggested that they do this in order to be more accepted by others. Today, public statements by those who call themselves “transgendered” (who are almost all autogynephiles rather than homosexual transsexuals) rarely acknowledge any erotic component of “transgenderism.”There is also a more personal motivation to deny the erotic component of autogynephilia. Anne Lawrence put it this way: I imagine most men would be humiliated to admit that dressing in women’s clothing is a sexual kick, and even more humiliated to admit that doing so, or fantasizing doing so, is obligatory for climax some or all of the time. Just dressing in women’s clothing is shameful enough; but having one’s sexual potency contingent upon such an unmanly, “ridiculous” crutch would be almost impossible to admit. Moreover, for anyone who thinks about it, the whole experience of reliance on paraphilic behavior or fantasy for arousal is rather tragic and lonely: it cuts one off from intimate contact during partnered sex, because one is (at least mentally) often making love to oneself rather than to one’s partner. Better not to admit this to anyone—especially to one’s wife. I think that if the wives of heterosexual cross-dressers knew what their husbands were really thinking about at the moment of climax, they would be appalled. (Of course, this might apply to the wives of other straight men as well; but it’s one thing to learn he’s fantasizing about making love to Claudia Schiffer, and another to learn he’s fantasizing about being forced to wear a French maid’s outfit.) On the other hand, to at-tribute one’s cross-dressing to a desire to express one’s “feminine side” is much more acceptable. Though the behavior may still appear ridiculous, the putative rationale allows the cross-dresser to portray himself as multi-faceted, courageous, and even empathic with his spouse. That’s a far easier script for most men to follow.In my experience, most laypeople are happy to accept the “I’m a woman in a man’s body” narrative, and don’t really want to know about autogynephilia—even though the preferred narrative is misleading and it is impossible to understand nonhomosexual transsexualism without autogynephilia. When I have tried to educate journalists who have called me as an expert on transsexualism, they have reacted uncomfortably. One said: “We just can’t put that into a family newspaper.” Perhaps not, but then they can’t print the truth.There is one more reason why many autogynephiles provide misleading information about themselves that is different than outright lying. It has to do with obsession. Something about autogynephilia creates a need not only to enact a feminine self, but also to actually believe in her. It seems important to them to emphasize the permanence of the feminine self as well as her primacy: “I was always feminine, I just managed to hide it. I became a Green Beret as a defensive response to my femininity.” In such accounts, the feminine self is the real self; the masculine self is the creation. (I have been arguing that the opposite is closer to the truth.) Intersexuality refers to congenital conditions in which biological sex is ambiguous, usually due to hormonal or genetic problems. Cheryl Chase, the intersex activist, told me that transsexuals frequently join intersex groups because they are convinced that they are also intersexual. In most cases, they are not. I assume that these are autogynephilic transsexuals who want to believe that there is a real biological woman inside them as well as a real psychological woman.The self-presentational deceptiveness of some autogynephiles is a main reason why autogynephilia was not understood until recently.Many clinicians—even some who write books—have taken the information that transsexuals tell them at face value. I recently attended atalk by a well-known psychologist at an academic sex conference in which she presented a case that was clearly autogynephilic (he’d been married and was in his late 40s, among other signs). However, she spoke not one word about her patient’s sexual fantasies, dwelling instead on the usual “woman trapped in a man’s body” story. Blanchard’s ideas have not yet received the widespread attention they deserve, in large part because sex researchers are not as scholarly as they should be and so don’t read the current scientific journals.And although Blanchard’s ideas are fundamental to an understanding of transsexualism, they might not matter that much for helping transsexuals, which most clinicians have as their first priority. With luck, the next revision of the DSM will distinguish “homosexual”from “autogynephilic” transsexualism. But will popular features on “the transgendered” begin to mention the teenage masturbatory cross-dressing? Will “The Cher Mondavi Story” become a made-for-television movie co-starring “Robot Man?” Probably not, and it is a pity. True acceptance of the transgendered requires that we truly understand who they are.In Search ofWomanhood and MenI wrote first about autogynephilic transsexualism because it is so muchless familiar, and harder to grasp, than homosexual transsexualism. As I mentioned, most people have homosexual transsexuals in mind when they think of transsexuals at all. But homosexual transsexualism is also an interesting, complex condition, and as is the case with autogynephiles, there are misconceptions about homosexual transsexuals. My own recent research has focused on the homosexual type. Oddly enough, most of the homosexual transsexuals I have met, I met through Cher, who is the other type of transsexual.This is odd because, as I have mentioned, in the United States and Canada these days, homosexual male-to-female and autogynephilic transsexuals do not run in the same circles. None of the homosexual transsexuals I asked had ever met a transsexual like Cher before. (Homosexual transsexuals do socialize with each other. Most of “Cher’s girls” had met each other before meeting Cher.) Cher’s connection with the homosexual transsexuals is her doing.Early in her transition, after she was diagnosed as “transsexual,” she decided that she wanted to try the “major leagues.” (Cher’s frequent allusions to sports and automobiles are sufficient to indicate that she is not a homosexual transsexual.) So she went to gay clubs and gay bars looking for accomplished transsexuals—those who looked and acted like attractive, sexy women. She watched them, befriended them, and learned from them. When I met her, she not only lived with a homosexual transsexual, but her best friend was one, and she was advisor, confidante, or chauffeur to several others. Her friends’ experiences, contrasted with her own, have made her an astute observer of their differences. When I asked her opinion about the main difference between transsexuals “from gay versus straight backgrounds” (as she puts it), she said, “Gay transsexuals are boy crazy.”One implication of Cher’s assertion is that homosexual transsexuals are like gay men. Many of the facts discussed in the last section on gay men apply to homosexual male-to-female transsexuals. For example, the causes of homosexual transsexualism are largely the causes of homosexuality. To be sure, only a small minority of gay men become transsexual, but homosexual transsexuals are a type of gay man.Richard Green began his important study of feminine boys (discussed in the last section) precisely to see if he could predict which boys would become transsexual adults. Sensibly, after hearing the memories of transsexual patients, he sought extremely feminine boys. In adulthood, most of these boys were gay men, and only one of the sixty in his study was clearly transsexual. Evidently, something prevents most very feminine boys from becoming transsexual. In order for a feminine boy to become transsexual, something extra must happen.What is the “something extra”? Ken Zucker, whom we met in , has tried to predict which boys with gender identity disorder (GID) would still have the disorder when they become adolescents. Adolescents with GID are much rarer and presumably much closer to being transsexual. Zucker found several predictors of adoles-cent GID: lower IQ, lower social class, immigrant status, non-intact family, and childhood behavior problems unrelated to gender identity disorder. Obviously, none of these factors can be considered very specific. Parental divorce and low social class are both very common, and most males who experience them do not become transsexual. The factors do, however, suggest a common theme: early adversity. I will speculate later about what this might mean.When I have discussed the theory that homosexual transsexuals are a type of gay man, I have met resistance. I was surprised at this, for the idea is neither new nor, it seemed to me, controversial. Some of the resistance was emotional. People who believe that homosexuality is not a disorder tend to dislike the implication that a subset of homosexuals are disordered. I think that this is a bad reason to object to the theory, no better than to object to the theory that autogynephilia is a form of heterosexuality because autogynephilia can be considered a disorder.Another reason why people have difficulty with the notion that homosexual transsexualism is a form of homosexuality is that at their endpoints, the two conditions seem quite different. The picture of the muscular gay man in leather looks quite different from that of the shapely postoperative transsexual in an evening dress. But look at the entire trajectory. As I have emphasized, as boys, some gay men look just like transsexuals. Nearly all homosexual transsexuals go through a stage in which they are “gay boys,” feminine to be sure, but not distinctly more feminine than many gay boys who will become gay men.And there is that “missing link” between transsexuals and ordinary gay men—the drag queen. Drag queens are gay men who cross-dress occasionally but who have no intention of changing their sex, and who do not take measures to physically feminize their bodies. Unlike heterosexual cross-dressers, drag queens do not become sexually aroused by dressing in women’s clothes. Some drag queens are transsexuals who have not yet accepted it, but for others, occasional cross-dressing is as close to female as they will ever get. In our study, we found thatdrag queens ranked between gay men and transsexuals on a number of traits related to femininity. Also, they liked their penises much more than transsexuals did.The other reason some people object to linking homosexual transsexualism with homosexuality is, they argue, that this confuses sexuality with gender. The standard transsexual narrative says that transsexualism is not about sex but about “gender identity,” or the internal sense that one is a man or a woman. According to this narrative, transsexuals want to change their sex because their sense of self disagrees with their bodies, not because they have any unusual sexual preferences that depend on a sex change. While the first part of this explanation sometimes may be true, the latter is not. It should be clear by now that the “gender, not sex” part of the transsexual narrative is false for autogynephiles, whether they are transsexuals or merely cross-dressers. Autogynephilia is a very unusual sexual orientation (towards oneself as a woman), and it is usually accompanied by specific and intense sexual imagery. But it would be a mistake to think of autogynephilic transsexualism as the sexual type of transsexualism, and homosexual transsexualism as the type that is solely a disorder of gender identity. Homosexual transsexuals are in their own way just as sexually motivated as autogynephiles.There is no way to say this as sensitively as I would prefer, so I will just go ahead. Most homosexual transsexuals are much better looking than most autogynephilic transsexuals. There is the rare exception, but for the most part, autogynephilic transsexuals aspire (with some success) to be presentable, while homosexual transsexuals aspire (with equivalent success) to be objects of desire. Homosexual transsexuals have been models and actresses. For example, the model, Tula, was in several movies and posed for Playboy before she was exposed as a transsexual.There are three reasons why homosexual transsexuals are betterlooking. First, they are typically younger when they start transitioning.This almost certainly helps prevent some of the masculinization that might have occurred had they waited 8 to 10 years, when they would be the same age as the typical autogynephile. Second, they want to attract men, and they get constant feedback (in the form of proposi-tions from men and mostly unsolicited critical advice from their transsexual sisters) about how they are doing. This allows them to hone their presentations faster than the autogynephilic transsexual, who has spent most of her femme life looking at a mirror by herself.Finally, homosexual transsexuals are better looking because homosexual men who want to be women tend not to enact that desire unless they can pull it off. The standard transsexual story implies that the transsexual is so dissatisfied with her incorrect male body that she cannot wait to discard it, regardless of how good she will look as a woman. This is another place where the standard narrative is wrong, at least about homosexual transsexuals. I have begun asking the homosexual transsexuals I meet whether, if they had looked awful as women, they would have transitioned to full-time females. Most have said “No,”and no one has answered with an unambiguous “Yes.” Extremely muscular and masculine looking homosexual transsexuals probably choose not to transition, but instead remain among gay men, who value their masculine looks. Blanchard has found that homosexual transsexuals tend to be physically smaller than their autogynephilic sisters, which is consistent with just this sort of self-selection. The “Before” and“After” pictures they have shown me also support my thesis. As men, the homosexual transsexuals look and act extremely feminine, and that presentation is not very marketable among gay men. They are far more fetching as women.Kim, whom I mentioned at the start of this section, exemplifies the dilemma that some homosexual transsexuals face. Recall that when I first saw Kim, she was at Crobar with a very handsome and muscular man, and I thought they looked sufficiently like a beautiful heterosexual couple that I refrained from approaching her. Sureenough, though, when I told my transsexual informants about her later, they recognized the description and claimed Kim as one of their own. I arranged to interview her for the study we were conducting.When she came to my laboratory, my initial impression was reconfirmed. She was stunning. (Afterwards, my avowedly heterosexual male research assistant told me that he would gladly have had sex with her, even knowing that Kim still possessed a penis.) Yet despite her appearance, Kim was the most ambivalent homosexual transsexual I had met.She didn’t know if she wanted the operation. It turned out that the handsome man with her at Crobar is a gay man, who enjoys her company and being seen with her, but who of course could never be attracted to Kim the way she looked that night. Kim had fallen in love with him, however. Because she knew that she could never have him as a transsexual or a woman, she was considering reversing her transition and becoming a man again. In her case, this would have meant removing breast implants and silicon in her hips. She also said she would probably have to hit the gym to bulk up. As she told me of her dilemma, I increasingly wondered what she could be thinking. I could not believe that Kim could ever be attractive enough as a man to attract the likes of the gay man I saw. Such a sexy woman could not possibly make the kind of masculine, muscular man that gay men tend to prefer. I silently predicted that Kim would come to her senses, let her man go, and embrace the femme fatale she was well on her way to becoming. So far, I am half right. Kim is no longer seen with him, and she is still a nascent woman, but she has not yet gotten surgery.Kim’s story shows that sex reassignment is not necessarily an in-evitable, unwavering goal for the homosexual transsexual. Rather, sex reassignment has a rational choice component: “Can I make it? Will I be happier as a female? Will I be more successful getting straight men as a woman than I am at getting gay men as a man?” (The last decision has to be weighted by a particular transsexual’s degree of preference for straight versus gay men. Most vastly prefer straight men.) This could help explain why the large majority of boys who start out look-ing transsexual ultimately do not pursue sex reassignment. Some doubt they can be attractive women.This is a significant difference between the homosexual and autogynephilic types. In making the decision whether to undergo sex reassignment, the autogynephiles do not seem to dwell much on whether they can attract mates. Even autogynephiles who worry that they cannot pass as women are concerned more about stares at the grocery store than about a lack of stares at the cocktail lounge. This makes sense. The autogynephile’s main romantic target is herself. This is also consistent with my intuition that autogynephilia is a very internally driven condition, much less susceptible to the kind of rational analysis that homosexual transsexuals seem to engage in.Alma is a 40-year-old Latina homosexual transsexual who got her sex change in her mid-30s—quite late for the homosexual type. She looks great, and works as a call girl out of her condo, which she owns.Alma has seen more than one era of transsexuals. Her brother (whom she calls her “sister”—there is no avoiding this kind of confusion) was also a transsexual, who saw the heyday of New York’s Studio 54 before dying of AIDS in the early 1980s. Alma has seen many a transsexual come and go, and the first thing that she thinks of that most have in common is that they are outcasts. They are outcasts as children because of their extreme femininity. They mostly come from poor, broken families, and family rejection is common. The gay community rejects transsexuals, according to Alma, because “they’re jealous that we get to have sex with straight men.”Alma has also noticed, as I have, the large number of Latina transsexuals. In Chicago, there are several bars that cater to Latina transsexuals. About 60 percent of the homosexual transsexuals and drag queens we studied were Latina or black. The proportion of nonwhite subjects in our studies of ordinary gay men is typically only about percent. Alma says she thinks that Hispanic people might have moretranssexual genes than other ethnic groups do. Another transsexual, remarking on the same phenomenon, attributed it to ethnic gender roles: “My culture is very macho and intolerant of female behavior in men. It is easier just to become a woman.”I am not sure about the validity of all of Alma’s observations, much less her theories, but there is clearly something to the idea that homosexual transsexuals are used to living on the margins of society. They have, in fact, had to learn to cope with rejection and disapproval since childhood, because of their extreme femininity. And they have not had the advantages that tend to instill respect in the social order. The early chaotic backgrounds of so many homosexual transsexuals might help explain why they do not defeminize the way that most very feminine boys do. A feminine boy from a middle-class or upper-middle-class family (such as Danny’s) has more motivation to “hang in there” until he normalizes his gender role behavior, because he has a good chance at a conventionally successful future. Defeminization might also require more ambition and family support than some homosexual transsexuals possess.Most homosexual transsexuals have also learned how to live on the streets. At one time or another many of them have resorted to shoplifting or prostitution or both. This reflects their willingness to forgo conventional routes, especially those that cost extra time or money. Homosexual transsexuals tend to have a short time horizon, with certain pleasure in the present being worth great risks for the future.Prostitution is the single most common occupation that homosexual transsexuals in our study admitted to. About half of them have worked as prostitutes at some point. In Chicago, the entry-level position is as a female-impersonating streetwalker who works the area of Broadway that is mostly gay after dark. (Their customers, of course, are not gay men. They are either unwary straight men or men looking for she-males.) This kind of prostitution is dangerous, especially for transsexuals, whose customers sometimes do not know what they are. Theyoften form relationships with street hustlers or ex-cons. The rate of HIV infection among transsexual streetwalkers is very high, partly due to the high rate of intravenous drug use.The more resourceful and attractive transsexual prostitutes are call girls. Before their sex reassignment surgery, they advertise as transsexuals. There is, in fact, a market for the services of preoperative transsexual prostitutes, and I will discuss this later. After surgery, many transsexual call girls continue in the business. Alma’s friend, Juanita, is a very attractive postoperative transsexual who has worked as a call girl both before and since her operation. Juanita differs from genetic female prostitutes because she asks men to describe themselves on the phone before she makes an appointment with them. In doing so, she is trying to determine whether their appearance will be acceptable to her. For example, she rejects obese men. She also admits that she finds some of the men who patronize her attractive, and enjoys sex with them. She doesn’t tell them, though, because she doesn’t want them to try to get sex for free. Although Juanita says she would like to switch occupations, she does not feel degraded and guilty about what she does for a living. I suspect that this reflects an aspect of her psychology that has remained male. When we ask transsexuals about their level of interest in casual sex, they respond pretty much like gay men and straight men, all of whom are more interested than either lesbians or straight women, on average. Although Juanita is so feminine in some respects, even some behavioral respects, her ability to enjoy emotionally meaningless sex appears male-typical. In this sense, homosexual transsexuals might be especially well suited to prostitution.As for shoplifting, homosexual transsexuals are not especially well suited as much as especially motivated. For many, their taste in clothing is much more expensive than their income allows. Transsexual call girls are among the few who can afford expensive clothes. In female impersonator shows, transsexuals often wear designer gowns, which are widely believed (by other transsexuals) to have been acquired via the five-fingered discount.Living on the edge is more out of necessity than desire. Most of the homosexual transsexuals I talked to had similar dreams for the future. They wanted to get their surgery (if they had not yet had it) and meet a nice, attractive, and financially stable heterosexual man who would marry and take care of them. This is obviously similar to the hopes of many non-transsexual women. When I was conducting my study of homosexual transsexuals, I routinely asked them if they knew anyone who had realized this dream. No one did.The Baton is Chicago’s premier female impersonator club, featuring several past Miss Continentals, including the gorgeous Mimi Marks.The performances consist of lip-synching and dancing to well-known songs, and the intended effect is to awe the audience with the beauty and realism of the female impersonators, who all appear to be women.Mission accomplished. Even the less attractive performers are not so because they look like men, but rather, because they are overweight, or merely plain. They look like women. All the performers I met there label themselves transsexual, and they all love men. They also all still have their penises. Once they have their sex reassignment surgery, they become women, and women cannot impersonate women.My first time at the Baton, I too was wowed by the accomplished female impersonations. But the most interesting part of the experience involved the audience. One man who sat close to the stage, by himself, was the object of derision by the transsexual MC and several of the other performers, during their acts. The performers made gestures indicating that he was dirty or perverse, while the man gazed up at them, seemingly unfazed. At one break, I overheard one of the performers telling him, exasperated, “Of course I still have it!” Only later, when I spoke to several homosexual transsexuals about it, was I able to surmise what was going on. None of the transsexuals I asked had difficulty interpreting the interaction. It was evidently in the realm of experience of all of them, in one way or another.The man was at the Baton because he was especially attracted to she-males, or transsexuals who live as women but still have their penises. She-males are most often depicted as mostly feminine individuals, with women’s faces, breasts, and absence of facial and body hair, but with functioning and erect penises. She-males are not just an acceptable substitute to this man. They are his preferred targets. Evidently, there is a significant market for she-male sex. Advertisements in pornographic magazines often sell videos or other magazines featuring she-males. About half of the homosexual transsexuals I have met have worked as prostitutes, and the majority of these worked preoperatively as she-males. One study found that among prostitutes’ solicitations in a Toronto alternative newspaper, about one in twenty was placed by a preoperative transsexual prostitute.Who are the customers? Are they gay, straight, or bisexual? Are they merely men looking for something exotic? Ray Blanchard is the only researcher who has studied men who are sexually attracted to she-males. (Blanchard calls men with sexual interest in she-males“gynandromorphophiles.” Cher calls them “transie sniffers.” I will stick with “men with sexual interest in she-males.”) In a content analysis of sexual personals advertisements, he found that about half of men who sought she-males were cross-dressers. Blanchard thinks that a significant number of men who want she-males are “partial autogynephiles”—they are primarily aroused to the image of themselves as she-male. Blanchard says that the men are not gay but are more like“scrambled up heterosexual men.” The transsexuals I know who worked as she-male prostitutes confirmed this. “There was nothing gay about those men,” said one, who knows plenty about gay men.There is a rather uneasy symbiosis between the homosexual she-males, on their way to sex reasssignment, and the men who want them at that stage. Juanita, who has been a successful prostitute before and after sex reassignment surgery, says simply “You would have to be crazy to prefer being a she-male prostitute.” According to Juanita, there were several problems with customers who call on she-males. Mostannoyingly, they frequently don’t show up for the appointments they scheduled. She thinks the no-shows want something exotic but simply lose their nerve and decide they can’t go through with it. Another thing that irritated Juanita about the customers who called on her when she was a she-male was the way they viewed her. “They considered me their little sex toy and assumed that just because I was a transsexual I would do anything kinky. They didn’t care about me, or even what I looked like. They just wanted to know if my thing worked.” Juanita says that the most frequent unwelcome requests were that she would penetrate them anally, act like a dominatrix, or allow them to cross-dress with her. The most frequent activity that she granted was oral sex (the men sucked Juanita’s penis).Juanita has had her sex reassignment surgery, and now works as a call girl for men who want real women. She does not tell them that she used to be a transsexual. None of her frequent customers from before was interested in continuing with her, post-surgery. The new men are more “intimate,” according to Juanita, because they see her as a real person rather than merely a “sex toy.” Juanita is a very attractive transsexual, and had the luxury of continuing to work successfully even after she was no longer exotic. Although I have not met one, some she-male prostitutes allegedly delay sex reassignment surgery because they are concerned that their incomes will suffer after they no longer have their penises.The voice on my answering machine sounded serious, even worried, and I wondered why. Maria had seemed ready and eager for her surgery. She was one of the few homosexual transsexuals I had met who had a conventional job; she was cheerful and not at all ambivalent about the surgery. She knew what she wanted. When I called her back, she asked to meet at a restaurant in Lincoln Park, Chicago’s trendy urban neighborhood. When I arrived, she greeted me at the door, and I barely recognized her. She had been quite passable before,but not especially attractive. Now she was the kind of woman that men gawk at (and later when we left the restaurant, they did). She now had very large breasts and an hourglass figure. Her face, which showed light stubble before, was radiantly feminine now. And she had already had one of the best voices I had ever heard on a transsexual. Yet she began by saying she had problems.Wherever she went, Maria was constantly feeling that people were whispering about her, identifying her as a transsexual. I was quite certain that people were whispering about her, but equally certain that they were not “clocking” her (detecting her status as a transsexual).Then she revealed her current personal situation, which helped explain her paranoia. For over a year she had had a steady boyfriend who did not know that she is a transsexual. She had made up a past life in response to his queries. Her gay brother collaborated with her to convince her boyfriend of the truth of her false past and to hide the true past. She was extremely concerned that her boyfriend would find out, and the constant worry caused tension in their relationship. For example, she was jealous that he would seek a “real woman,” although in fact he believed he was already with a “real woman,” and they had been fighting.Maria had met her boyfriend shortly after getting breast implants but before her vaginoplasty. Evidently, many men had made advances at that time, and she chose him because he was good looking and ambitious. She was able to postpone intercourse with him for a few months, meanwhile frantically managing to get her surgery scheduled sooner. She had sex with him sooner than she was supposed to, but had not had any physical problems as a result. Her new body worked well.She and her boyfriend had talked fairly specifically about a future, including marriage and children. Although aware that she cannot have children, she was willing to adopt. The boyfriend had integrated her into his circle of friends and introduced her to his family, who loved her. Maria had absolutely no intention of telling her boyfriend, ever.She had cut off, or at least drastically reduced, interactions with her old transsexual friends to reduce the chance of discovery, but had a couple of close calls in public with her boyfriend, once with Cher.Some of her old friends understood and wished her well; others did not. In fact, Maria worried that a resentful transsexual might track down her boyfriend and tell him merely to spoil things for her.As we spoke, I sympathized with Maria, but I also pondered her and her boyfriend’s predicaments. Maria’s is clear enough. Ray Blanchard once presented the following dilemma to a prominent and open-minded heterosexual male scientist. Suppose that you met the perfect woman—attractive, sexy, and interested in you—with one catch: She is transsexual. Would you be her partner? The scientist sheepishly admitted that he would not. When I asked Juanita, the sexy transsexual prostitute (now post-op, and not generally open about her past) about the best, and worst, reactions she had had from lovers after she revealed that she used to be a man, she replied “I have really never had a good experience. The men always leave.” Juanita’s most recent boyfriend confronted her after penetrating her for the first time. Her vagina is shallow, and he concluded that she is not a normal woman.He asked if she is transsexual, and she did not deny it. He ran from her apartment and called her later to say that he could not deal with her revelation just now. She has not heard back from him. Juanita knows only one transsexual who has been with a man for more than a year, and that transsexual’s boyfriend pimps for her.All the homosexual transsexuals I have talked to say that they wish they could find a man they could tell and who would love them anyway, but they all worry that such a man does not exist. And they are all deeply suspicious of men who prefer transsexuals to real women.(These men have something similar to “sexual interest in she-males,”and transsexuals find them weird.) There is little incentive for the postoperative homosexual transsexual to be honest.Cher has made it clear to her friends, such as Juanita, that she disapproves of such deception, and that she intends to be honest with her own prospects. (Cher currently considers herself bisexual, butthinks that she is most likely to become sexually involved with men.) Press her, though, and she will admit that virtue is somewhat easier for her than for her homosexual transsexual friends. Cher is sufficiently“clockable” that she cannot risk not telling. Before she says anything, most men know, or at least suspect. Furthermore, I do not believe that Cher’s attraction to men is as intense or as unambiguous as that of homosexual transsexuals. She is autogynephilic, and men’s place in her sexual world is complicated. So the loss of a potential sex partner is less of a loss, overall, to Cher than it is to the homosexual transsexuals, who simply lust after men.I put myself in Maria’s boyfriend’s place and ask myself if I would want to know. The answer is less clear the longer I contemplate. On the one hand, any person to whom it mattered would seem to have the right to know. On the other hand, this is a man who by all accounts is in love with Maria, and who derives a great deal of satisfac-tion from being with her. (My impression is that his friends and family believe he is very lucky to be with her.) Even though the couple (if it remains a couple) is destined to be biologically childless, this is less of a problem for most men than for most women, who often become depressed when a couple is infertile. By the kind of utilitarian analysis I am partial to, let us ask which ending would leave the world a happier place: the boyfriend finds out, or he doesn’t find out. Assuming that the couple is destined to break up for other reasons (after all, they are only in their early 20s), then surely it is better for both if he does not find out. If they are compatible enough to make a life together, then it is still not clear that he should know. After all, she could eventually reveal that she is sterile without saying why. If having biological children were so important to him, he could end the relationship with only that knowledge.Maria asked me to talk to her and her boyfriend, to do couples counseling, pretending that I have known her only as a woman. This would serve both the goals of helping their relationship and covering her story. I considered it briefly, then refused. But it was not an easy decision.Autogynephilicand HomosexualTranssexuals:How To Tell Them ApartO nce you have learned about autogynephilic and homosexual trans-sexuals and seen several of each,distinguishing them is easy. If Blanchard and I saw the same transsexuals, I would be surprised if we disagreed on more than 2. But most readers will not have met a single transsexual of either type, and even most clinicians who see gender patients are not used to thinking about them this way. In any case, you cannot simply ask someone“Which type are you?”I have devised a set of rules that should work even for the novice (though admittedly, I have not tested them). Start at zero. Ask each question, and if the answer is “Yes,” add the number (+1 or -1) next to the question. If the sum gets to +3, stop; the transsexual you’re talking to is autogynephilic. If the sum gets to -3, she is homosexual.+1 Have you been married to a woman?Autogynephilic and Homosexual Transsexuals +1 As a child, did people think you were about as masculine as other boys?+1 Are you nearly as attracted to women as to men? Or more attracted to women? Or equally uninterested in both? (Add 1 if “Yes”to any of these.)+1 Were you over the age of 40 when you began to live full time as a woman?+1 Have you worn women’s clothing in private and, during at least three of those times, become so sexually aroused that you masturbated?+1 Have you ever been in the military or worked as a policeman or truck driver, or been a computer programmer, businessman, lawyer, scientist, engineer, or physician?-1 Is your ideal partner a straight man?-1 As a child, did people think you were an unusually feminine boy?-1 Does this describe you? “I find the idea of having sex with men very sexually exciting, but the idea of having sex with women is not at all appealing.”-1 Were you under the age of 25 when you began to live full time as a woman?-1 Do you like to look at pictures of really muscular men with their shirts off?-1 Have you worked as a hairstylist, beautician, female impersonator, lingerie model, or prostitute?Finally, if the person has been on hormones for at least six months, ask yourself this question:If you didn’t already know that this person was a transsexual, would you still have suspected that she was not a natural-born woman?+1 if your answer is “Yes” (if you would have suspected)-1 if your answer is “No”Keep in mind that people don’t always tell the truth. This interview could be invalid if the transsexual is actually autogynephilic but is either (a) worried that you will think badly of her or deny her a sex change if you know the truth, or (b) obsessed with being a “real”woman.T he medical transitioning of transsexuals, from men to women (andthe other way, too), is no longer just a curiosity, but a business. If not a big business, it is at least a lucrative business for a few surgeons, who devote their entire practices to it.Some of them have their own Internet websites and distribute videos that describe their services and show their results. It seems to be a rapidly advancing specialty, as well. Cher, who had her genital sex change surgery only eight years ago, notes somewhat enviously that neo-vaginas now look so much more realistic, complete with realistic-looking (and sensitive) clitorises, and labia. Advances are surely driven in large part by the free flow of information. Few brain surgery patients study their options more closely than do transsexuals, who trade not only opinions but also stories and pictures, both informally and on websites. (Next to a close-up photograph of a neo-vagina spread by the patient’s fingers: “This is a fairly typical Dr. M. result, with a well-defined clitoris and nice thin labia. The urethral opening here is a little lower and harder to see than in some examples: Dr. M. seems to be trimming his urethras shorter recently.”) The high-tech websites are nearly all maintained by autogynephilic transsexuals, but homosexual transsexuals spread the word about the same surgeons, and the surgeon’s office is one place where homosexual and autogynephilic transsexuals might well meet. Here are the main medical procedures that male-to-female transsexuals undergo, in rough chronological order in which they are typically undertaken, with rough costs.Start with electrolysis, to get rid of the beard. (Electrolysis of body hair is a lower priority, because it recedes some with hormonal treatment and in any case can be hidden.) Autogynephiles prefer to do this while still in the male role. Homosexual transsexuals, because they are younger and possibly have less facial hair to begin with, tend to switch roles first. Weekly time can range between one to more than five hours at $40 to $100 per hour. Completion may require less than to more than 700 hours, with an average between 200 and 300 hours.Typical total electrolysis costs range between $4,000 and $16,000.Recently, some surgeons have recommended getting electrolysis on the scrotum between the legs, as well, because this skin is often used to line the neo-vagina, and should be hair-free. Electrolysis hurts and leaves red blotches on the skin for a while after each session.Next, hormones. Female hormones (synthetic or “natural” estrogens, the latter taken from animal urine) are taken either orally, by transdermal skin patch, or by injection, for the rest of the transsexual’s life—assuming that she goes all the way. Also, while the transsexual still has her testes, she usually must take some kind of anti-androgen hormone as well; this can be discontinued after she is castrated (which usually happens during sex reassignment surgery). Hormone therapy is not typically very expensive—less than a couple of dollars per day—and can be had either through a physician or without a prescription in Mexico or even by mail order via the Internet.If given early enough, hormones prevent masculinization of facialand body hair, and facial and body skeletal structures. Early enough for complete prevention is prior to puberty, and this does not happen in this country. (In the very liberal Netherlands, hormone therapy to delay puberty sometimes is given in early adolescence.) But even in the late teens and early twenties, hormone therapy can prevent a significant amount of masculinization that would otherwise occur. This is one reason why homosexual transsexuals tend to be more convincing as women compared with autogynephilic transsexuals, who tend to be older before starting hormones.Hormone therapy causes breast growth that is typically about one or two cup sizes less than sisters and mothers reach. Male sex drive decreases (and this is often experienced as a relief). Fat is redistributed, causing the face to assume a more feminine shape. Fat leaves the waist and moves toward the hips and buttocks. Body hair growth slows, becomes less dense and lighter colored (but not on the head, face, or pubic area). Many transsexuals say that female hormones make them feel better, and less depressed. Some transsexuals say that female hormones make them behave more female-like. Some say that it makes them more attracted to men, for example, and Cher believes that female hormones make her hold a cup like a woman rather than like a man. Some of these psychological “effects” of hormone therapy are probably placebo effects, although it is not unlikely that others are real.The worst potential side effect of hormone therapy is blood clots that can travel to the lungs, where they can be fatal. Luckily, this side effect is rare.With electrolysis and hormones, the other thing to get started on early is the voice. Female hormones do not feminize the male voice, once it has changed. The voice is a big hindrance to many transsexuals in their quest to pass. It is particularly difficult to pass on the phone, when they cannot convey their otherwise (in many cases) very feminine presentation. The medical solution to the voice problem, “voice surgery,” involves tightening of the vocal cords so that the pitch of the voice is elevated. It is convenient to get a tracheal shave at the sametime (Adam’s apple reduction), for a total of $4,500 or more. However, voice surgery is still not considered very reliable—it has produced too many bad outcomes, such as hoarsenes—and most transsexuals opt for a few sessions with a voice therapist. The voice therapist teaches ways to sound more like a woman. The most important and obvious focus is raising the pitch of the voice to be as high as possible. Singing is good practice for this. Even aside from pitch, men and women talk differently. Women have more jumps in frequency than men, conveying a more singsong effect. They have more precise articulation. They ask more questions and talk about feelings more. In my experience, the transsexual voice remains the most problematic piece of the feminine puzzle. I have met many transsexuals whose physical appearance does not give them away, but I have met only a few whose voice provides no clue.Get rid of the beard, grow long hair, and put on a dress and even with good breast growth, some transsexuals look like men in dresses.Male and female faces differ, and everyone sees the face. Men, especially older men, have higher hairlines, broader chins, “brow bossing”(a prominence of the male brow ridge), lower eyebrows, narrower cheeks, and more prominent, angular noses. All these masculine features can be somewhat feminized with surgery. Facial plastic surgery is expensive, potentially the most expensive thing that a transsexual will buy. Total costs can exceed $30,000, but this varies greatly. Some transsexuals (especially the homosexual type) need relatively little, and others need a lot of work.Although hormones cause some breast growth, many transsexuals elect to get breast implants as well. Homosexual transsexuals almost invariably do this, and their tastes run large. They want to be noticed.(One homosexual transsexual I know got her sex-change surgery several months earlier than she had originally planned because after she got her breast implants, she immediately obtained a boyfriend who wanted to have sex. Another told me that the most unrealistic aspect of the portrayal of Dil, the transsexual in The Crying Game, was that shehad not managed feminine breasts.) This surgery is well known to genetic women these days, and costs about $5,000. One surgeon offers a discount if the implants are done at the same time as genital surgery (not recommended by some, because there is then no comfortable part of the body to put weight on). More than one transsexual told me that the aftermath of breast implant surgery was far more painful than that of genital surgery.Women’s hips and bottoms are wider than men’s, so some transsexuals get silicon injections there. Silicon injections can be dangerous.Silicon can enter the bloodstream and travel to the lungs, causing a fatal embolism. Also, because the silicon is loose rather than enclosed in surgical implants, there is concern that the silicon will eventually migrate to other places and look bad. (I have been unable to find anyone to whom this has happened, but it is well documented in the medical literature.) Many people consider physicians who administer silicon injections to be disreputable. Homosexual transsexuals have more motivation to attract men in the short term and seem less concerned with long-term consequences, so they are more apt to get the silicon injections. Ideally, these should be done in series, waiting for each layer to harden before putting another one on. Currently in Chicago, the person who does this procedure for most transsexuals is, herself, a transsexual who works out of her apartment. Facial injections cost $125, hips $600, and bottoms $400.The most exotic procedure—though not necessarily the most expensive—is vaginoplasty, or the construction of a neo-vagina. There is more than one way to accomplish this. In any method, the first step is to remove the testicles and the erectile tissue (insides) of the penis. A“vaginal” cavity is created between the urethra (urinary tube) and the rectum. In the most common form of the operation, the penile skin is inverted to form the lining of the neo-vagina. If the patient has a short penis (less than 5 inches), the surgeon can graft skin onto the new vagina to lengthen it. (If the scrotum has been cleared of hair by electrolysis, this skin can be used.) The glans (head) of the penis is used toconstruct the clitoris. Because the glans contains the nerves that produce most of the penis’s erotic sensations, the neo-clitoris is usually sensitive (just as a genetic woman’s is). A part of the scrotum is used to make the labia (vaginal lips). These days, the best surgeons offer a second, optional, labiaplasty operation, in which the labia are thinned and a clitoral hood is formed, making the overall appearance generally more realistic. The most interesting variation in the procedures I have outlined is that some surgeons can use a segment of bowel tissue to line the vagina. According to some reports, this makes the vagina lubricate naturally, but this kind of vaginoplasty is more expensive and carries a greater risk of complications. Typical vaginoplasty fees range from less than $8,000 to more than $15,000, and some surgeons charge as much as $30,000. The optional labiaplasty is only about $3,000.After the big operation, the patient must stay in a hospital for about three days (included in the total cost), and when she can, she must dilate her new vagina regularly, with dildo-like plastic rods.I suspect that 10 years from now, this section of the book will have to be much longer to provide even superficial coverage of available options. And some of the procedures I have described will seem primi-tive by comparison. But even in the recent past, desperate transsexuals without much money have been subject to far more rudimentary and dangerous surgery by quacks eager to exploit them. One notorious doctor, John Ronald Brown, was named one of the nation’s worst surgeons by Vogue in the late 1970s, served time for illegal medical activities, then reopened his sex change shop in Tijuana. Transgender activist Dallas Denny, who wrote an exposé on Brown, described the“Tijuana experience”:Many of the transsexual people who went to Mexico for gender reassignment surgery in the seventies and eighties wound up mutilated, with genitalia looking like they belonged to one of the creatures in the bar scene in“Star Wars,” and not like something likely to be found on a human being of either gender. Some of these people, expecting vaginoplasties, received simple penectomies, leaving them looking somewhat like a Barbie doll.Others ended up with something that looked like a penis that had beensplit and sewn to their groin—which is essentially what had been done.Some ended up with vaginas which were lined with hair-bearing scrotal skin; these vaginas quickly filled up with pubic hair, becoming inflamed and infected. Some ended up with peritonitis, some with permanent colosto-mies. Some ran out of money and were dumped in back alleys and parking lots to live or die. Some died in those parking lots or back in the States, of complications from the surgery.In 1998 Brown was arrested for performing an illegal amputation that led to the death of an elderly man. Speculation is that the man had an “amputee fetish” (yes, this exists, and can be explored thoroughly on the Internet) and found Brown after legitimate surgeons refused him.Sex reassignment surgery is the easy part. The difficult part for many transsexuals is the social transition that usually precedes surgery by several years, and that continues for years afterwards. This transition is especially difficult for autogynephilic transsexuals, and is worst for those with wives and children and jobs that require them to interact with the public. Most physicians and mental health professionals who work with transsexuals adhere to the Standards of Care for Gender Identity Disorders, promulgated by the Harry Benjamin International Gender Dysphoria Association (named for the revered father of transsexualism). Among other things, the Standards of Care specify that prior to medical treatment (such as hormones or sex reassignment surgery), transsexuals must participate in “real-life experience,” living full time as the sex they will become.The Clarke Institute of Psychiatry has a very conservative real-life experience requirement. Transsexuals who want to become women must first live for a year as women before receiving hormone therapy.(This is motivated by concern for genetic females who want to become men. Once they receive testosterone, their voices will permanently deepen. Genetic men who receive female hormones do not risk analogous permanent effects. However, Blanchard does not wantto risk accusations of gender bias, so he holds both female-to-male and male-to-female transsexuals to the same requirements.) During this time, they must work, volunteer 20 hours a week, or attend school full time, while maintaining a female identity. They must submit proof—either tax forms or letters from bosses or supervisors—that they are known by an unambiguously female name. “Pat” would not count; “Patricia” would. Once they begin hormone therapy, transsexual patients must live for another year (two total) as women before receiving official authorization for sex reassignment surgery. Currently, the Clarke Institute arranges to have successful applicants’ sex reassignment surgeries performed in England by surgeons Blanchard thinks are top notch.Many transsexuals find the Clarke Institute’s lengthy real-life experience requirement to be onerous. They believe they should be eligible for hormones and surgery much sooner. There have even been a few cases in which impatient patients mutilated their own genitals.(These have all been autogynephiles, according to Blanchard.) Indeed, there is no hard evidence in favor of the Clarke’s policy. (To get hard evidence, one would have to randomly assign transsexuals either to the two years of real-life experience or to a shorter requirement, and then follow them up to see which group fared better. No one has done this.) There is new evidence that transsexuals who have had real-life experiences as short as six months can do fine after surgery. Still, the Clarke gender staff thinks the two year period is a good idea. Blanchard simply believes that the likelihood of regrets is too high with a shorter period. Maxine Petersen emphasizes the importance of learning: “The feeling of belonging to a different gender and the actual experience of what it is like to belong or to live in that gender role and be accepted as female are quite different. Until one has done it the idealized existence is likely to dominate.” In part, Petersen is referring to experiences that all women confront, such as being patronized by garage mechanics. She is also referring to transsexual-specific experiences.Many transsexuals will have to contend for the rest of their lives withother peoples’ stares, smirks, and whispers, and a real-life experience presents them with the opportunity to know if they can live with that.Most homosexual male-to-female transsexuals do not know about the Standards of Care, much less attempt to adhere to them. Yet even for them, there must be an ultimate decision to stop using a male identity and to adopt a female identity full time. My impression is that this is an easier, less traumatic transition for them than for the autogynephiles. For example, most homosexual transsexuals I talked to felt sufficiently confident about their appearance when they transitioned full time that this was not a source of major discomfort.On the contrary, by the time they go full time, most homosexual transsexuals have had feedback—from other transsexuals and from straight men—that they can pull it off. The two groups most likely to have problems with their transition—family and employers—are less difficult for homosexual transsexuals. Homosexual transsexuals are more likely to be estranged from their families, in which case they care less what their families think. And whether or not they are estranged from them, the families are hardly likely to be completely surprised by the homosexual transsexuals’ decisions. More often, parents and siblings will react with “What took you so long?” As for work, homosexual transsexuals are less likely to hold conventional jobs, and those that do would have been recognized as being quite feminine and undoubtedly gay long before their transition.In contrast, many autogynephilic transsexuals have both families and employers who will be shocked and disturbed by their decision.Although the autogynephile’s wife often knows about his cross-dressing, she has typically discounted the possibility that this would lead to her husband’s becoming a woman, often due to his assurance.(Early in their marriage, he probably doubted that this would occur, too.) Their children typically have no clue. Because the autogynephile is not usually outwardly feminine and has conducted his cross-dressing secretly, his coworkers and boss have probably never suspected anything either. For these men, there is no avoiding a crisis, one that usually causes profound alterations in their lives.Some autogynephilic transsexuals would like to diminish the trauma of transition by easing into it. It is not uncommon for them to request gender clinics to allow them to gradually feminize their bodies, becoming increasingly androgynous, and change their female identities only after most people start treating them as women. Some actually attempt this—Petersen says that one such sign is an otherwise unremarkably masculine man who begins wearing clear nail polish.The Clarke Institute does not count such gender “blurring” toward the two years of real-life experience. The concern is that it avoids precisely the kind of information that transsexuals need—what it is like to live as a woman. Furthermore, Petersen thinks that transsexuals who try to adopt an ambiguous outward gender role might create more of a sense of discomfort or confusion among others than the actual transition would. Instead, she recommends that before transitioning, the transsexual should explicitly notify those who need to know what is going on. At work, this should be the boss first.“Bosses don’t like hearing about this secondhand,” says Petersen. Increasingly, employers are behaving sympathetically toward their transsexual employees. The most difficult situations are those in which the transsexual’s pre-transition job required a great deal of interaction with the public (sales, for example). In this case, the employer might reasonably be concerned that the transsexual’s continued employment in that position will cost the company business.Marriages usually end. Individual wives’ reactions vary from sympathetic and understanding to angry and hateful, but even in the best cases, women dislike the embarrassing notoriety and the loss of their husbands. (After all, they are not lesbians.) As in all divorces, the degree of animosity between parents is a major factor in how children come to view the noncustodial parent. Petersen thinks that it is important for the transsexual parent (ideally, but not necessarily in alliance with the other parent) to explain to the children before any transition, to emphasize that it was nothing they caused, and that the transsexual parent will continue to be a parent. This is an emotional issue for Petersen, because of her own experience. A postoperative transsexual,she has not seen her children since she transitioned socially into the female role in 1991. When Maxine Petersen was a man, on the day he planned to begin a slow process of talking to his children, gradually explaining the transition to them and getting them used to the idea, his then-wife talked to them first. Although he spent several hours with them afterwards, they were sufficiently traumatized that there was no hope of reaching them. Afterwards, the children told him they did not want to see him anymore. Petersen has called the children regularly and remembered birthday and Christmas presents, which she leaves at the front door. She also writes them occasional long letters. “I tell them that I love them and that the change has been only on the outside. On the inside, I am the same person who raised them, read them bedtime stories,” she says, tearfully. I believe her.Different nations range widely in the compassion and assistance given transsexuals. In the Netherlands the government pays for sex reassignment, even, in some cases, for adolescents. In Canada, the government used to pay, provided the applicant was treated through the Clarke Institute, but in 1998 the government ceased public funding. In England, transsexuals cannot currently legally change their sex, though they can get their medical expenses paid by national insurance. In Japan, sex reassignment surgery was not permitted until recently, when the first case (a female changing to male) was sanctioned. Islamic countries are especially intolerant. In Malaysia, for example, 45 contestants of a drag queen show were recently arrested for female impersonation; needless to say, sex reassignment surgery is not subsidized there. In the United States, of course, transsexuals can both obtain surgery and change their legal sex. However, private insurance almost never pays for the surgery, or for anything else involved in sex reassignment. Private insurance companies are motivated to keep costs to a minimum, and there are too few transsexuals to comprise a constituency to be reckoned with.Almost certainly, refusal to cover sex reassignment surgery is alsomotivated by moral ambivalence. My undergraduate students at Northwestern are surely more liberal than average (at least until they get their first jobs or advanced degrees and begin to protect their assets), but even most of them balk at the idea that the surgery should be subsidized. They are especially hesitant to support surgery for nonhomosexual transsexuals, once they learn about autogynephilia.The idea of men sexually obsessed with having vaginas is incomprehensible to them, and like most Americans, they are too puritanical to give sexual concerns much priority in the public trough. But even when I invoke the standard transsexual narrative—“Imagine that you have felt your entire life that you had the body of the wrong sex”—they balk. When I press them, they say something like the following:“But they don’t have the wrong body. They are mentally ill.”Paul McHugh, chairman of the Department of Psychiatry at Johns Hopkins University, used a more sophisticated version of that argument to close Hopkins’s renowned gender identity clinic. McHugh objected that clinicians naively accepted transsexual patients’ histories of having been quite feminine, when there was ample evidence in many cases that the histories were false (for example, a married man who presents as conventionally masculine). This objection is often correct, though it has no obvious relevance to the advisability of sex reassignment. Furthermore, and more importantly, McHugh argued that it is simply wrong for physicians to “mutilate” perfectly good organs because the transsexual patient’s troubled mind wants this:“[The focus on surgery] has distracted effort from genuine investiga-tions attempting to find out just what has gone wrong for these people—what has, by their testimony, given them years of torment and psychological distress and prompted them to accept these grim and disfiguring surgical procedures.”McHugh’s concerns are worth taking seriously. Consider the case of the man erotically obsessed with having his leg amputated. Would it be advisable or even ethical to remove the leg? And McHugh is correct that interest in sex reassignment medicine has far exceeded inter-est in changing the minds of transsexual people so that they do not want to change their sex. Transsexualism is, after all, a condition of the mind and brain.One problem with McHugh’s analysis is that we simply have no idea how to make gender dysphoria go away. I suspect that both autogynephilic and homosexual gender dysphoria result from early and irreversible developmental processes in the brain. If so, learning more about the origins of transsexualism will not get us much closer to curing it. Given our present state of knowledge, saying that we should focus on removing transsexuals’ desire to change sex is equivalent to saying that it is better that they should suffer permanently from gender dysphoria than that they obtain sex reassignment surgery.Surely the most relevant data are transsexuals’ own feelings before and after transitioning. Are they glad they did it? By now, hundreds of transsexuals have been followed after changing sex, and the results are clear. Successful outcomes are much more common than unsuccessful outcomes. In the typical study perhaps 80 percent of male-to-female outcomes are judged successful, about 10 percent unsuccessful, and about 10 percent uncertain. (The results of genetic females who become men are even more successful.) “Success” has been defined differently by different investigators, and has included such things as absence of regrets, and success in work and sexual relationships. No one claimed that transsexuals were without problems, only that they seemed to have adjusted well. Furthermore, the few studies that had adequate control groups found that as transition progressed through hormones and then surgery, patients’ well-being also increased and surpassed that of those waiting sex reassignment.Those patients who did have regrets tended to have had poor surgical outcomes, work-related problems (for instance, dismissal because of transitioning), or poor functioning to begin with. There was also some indication in a couple of studies that autogynephiles were more likely to have regrets. In a late-1980s study by Blanchard, about a third of a small sample of nonhomosexual transsexuals had some re-grets. Both Blanchard and Petersen believe that the regrets rate among autogynephiles would be much lower now because of greater tolerance among employers and a more cautious approach to recommending patients for surgery.As vaginoplasty has become more and more sophisticated, transsexual patients undoubtedly have been increasingly satisfied. Juanita was initially unhappy with the look of her neo-vagina after phase one surgery, but after the second phase, she was delighted. She had been insecure that her partners would detect that her vagina was not real before; now she doesn’t worry. In the past, neo-vaginas tended to be shallow. In one study from the 1980s, they averaged about three inches, and the researchers speculated that transsexuals who had sex with men might use sexual positions that minimize depth of penetration. With the recent trend of using skin grafts to lengthen the vagina, this is becoming less of a concern, if it ever was one. None of the transsexuals I met complained about vaginal depth. Some of them—particularly the homosexual transsexuals—had been concerned before sex reassignment surgery that they would lose erotic sensation and become anorgasmic. And this does occur, though most transsexuals retain the capacity for orgasm. In fact, several transsexuals claimed to me that for the first time in their lives, they were experiencing multiple orgasms.Blanchard is skeptical about such accounts, because he suspects they are trying to convince themselves or others that they are like genetic women. However, they have convinced me that there is something really going on. Do they have multiple orgasms just like some genetic women do? I am not sure, because as a man I cannot understand the phenomenon; nor has it been well understood scientifically.Although there have been a number of follow-up studies of transsexuals, these studies have been quite limited in terms of their outcome measures, among other things. Because of this, perhaps the best indication that sex reassignment is usually successful is that transsexuals continue to seek it. They do not seek it blindly. On the contrary, as I have mentioned, transsexuals are highly motivated and educated con-sumers of sex reassignment. Many know the scientific literature, and all of them closely question other transsexuals at more advanced stages of transition. If, from their perspective, sex reassignment were a bad idea—if transitioning routinely led to unhappiness—they would not go through with it.Of course, there are other perspectives that deserve to be weighed.Most obviously, the wives and children of autogynephilic transsexuals might well be less happy after their husbands and fathers change their sex. I think their suffering is understandable and unfortunate. (I am less sympathetic toward disapproving families of origin of homosexual transsexuals, who do not depend on them.) However, I do not think that this real suffering should be used to discourage transsexuals from sex reassignment. Most are plenty conscious of the suffering they might cause their families and proceed, if they do, with regret about this. And in a society in which nearly half of marriages end in divorce, often caused primarily by boredom, it is difficult to understand why autogynephilia is not sufficient reason to end a marriage.Do transsexuals find partners? Certainly, homosexual transsexuals find sex partners after their surgery, but do they get steady partners?Do they get married? I have already mentioned my impression that homosexual transsexuals are not very successful at finding desirable men willing to commit to them. In part, this reflects the difficulty that men have with the notion of coupling with women who used to be men (no matter how attractive such women may be), as well as the difficulty most transsexuals have keeping their secret. But it also reflects the choices that homosexual transsexuals are prone to make. My impression is that they would rather have a relatively uncommitted relationship with a very attractive man than a committed relationship with a less desirable partner. Although the homosexual transsexuals I have met are all searching for “Mr. Right,” perhaps in vain, their sex lives have all clearly improved after surgery. They can hide their pastidentities for a while, at least, and so no longer have to worry about how to respond to attractive men who hit on them in bars.When I began writing this book, I had never known a homosexual transsexual who married. However, in 1999 Juanita invited me to her wedding. Her engagement story was quite romantic, in an odd, transsexual kind of way. She met her fiancé on the Internet a couple of years after her vaginoplasty. When they began dating, she didn’t tell him her secret. They were on vacation in Mexico, and he proposed.She began her answer with, “There’s something I’ve been meaning to tell you.” After she confessed, he was stunned, but he told her he wanted to marry her anyway.The wedding was small, touching, and hilarious. Juanita’s family—mother, father, three brothers, and three sisters—all attended, and of course, they knew that Juanita used to be Hector. As did the four transsexuals, including Cher, whom Juanita invited. However, neither the groom’s parents nor his son from his first marriage had any idea.Juanita was radiant, but when I spoke privately with her, she revealed that she was having second thoughts about becoming stepmother to a teenage boy and living in the suburbs. But she reminded herself what a great catch her husband was.Just a year later Cher told me that Juanita and her husband were separated. Apparently, Juanita’s doubts had only grown, and she missed the excitement of living in the city, and of dating new partners. She had also begun to work again as an escort—she had done this before meeting her husband. Juanita had achieved the dream that nearly all the homosexual transsexuals I’ve met have told me they want, and she let it go.Nearly all the homosexual transsexuals I know work as escorts after they have their surgery. I used to think that somehow, they had no other choice because conventionally happy lives were beyond their grasp. I have come to believe that these transsexuals are less constrained by their secret pasts than by their own desires. And these desires, including the desire for sex with different attractive men, do not make conventional married life easier.Autogynephilic transsexuals tend to lead very different sex lives than homosexual transsexuals, both before and after surgery. Autogynephiles are more likely to seek one single partner. A few remain with their wives, though much more often, wives divorce them. A significant number of autogynephiles find lesbian partners. It is not uncommon for autogynephilic transsexuals to pair up with each other.My impression is that a substantial proportion of autogynephilic transsexuals do not get partners (even casual sex partners) after their surgery. However, this doesn’t mean that in these cases sex reassignment surgery has failed. Autogynephilic transsexuals do not primarily seek sex reassignment in order to attract partners.Cher has been having a rough time lately. She has fallen out with Amy, a homosexual transsexual who used to be her closest friend.Cher thinks that once Amy got her surgery, she no longer needed her, and she feels used. When she goes out with Juanita, who has become her best friend, men are constantly approaching Juanita (who is years younger and very sexy), but they approach Cher cautiously, if at all. Cher also admits that she is strongly attracted to both Amy and Juanita (and I wonder if she has fallen in love with them). Of course, they have no romantic or sexual interest in her, or for anyone who is not a man, and so her lust is unrequited. Cher sounds depressed sometimes and worries that she will never find anyone. She is also broke, and is being sued by her relatives for her father’s inheritance.I ask her if she ever regrets becoming a woman, and she does not hesitate. “No, that is one thing I know was right,” she says. “I do not regret that, and I am not ashamed of anything.”Despite her troubles, she continues to visit her circle of (primarily transsexual) friends, helping them plan their transition, listening to their boyfriend problems, and urging them away from those areas of transsexual life of which she disapproves—prostitution, for instance.She is a good friend to them, although her advice is not always appreciated or heeded.I think about what an unusual life she has led, and what an unusual person she is. How difficult it must have been for her to figure out her sexuality and what she wanted to do with it. I think about all the barriers she broke, and all the meanness that she must still contend with. Despite this, she is still out there giving her friends advice and comfort, and trying to find love. And I think that in her own way, Cher is a star.EpilogueI recently met Danny Ryan for the first time. Although I had discussedhim several times with his mother,Danny had steadfastly refused to meet me. I believe that he associated me with concern about his femininity, and he didn’t like to be reminded of this.I met him by accident. I attended my university’s graduation ceremony, and Danny’s family did as well. His parents—Leslie and Patrick Ryan—Danny, and his sister were there in support of a family friend’s daughter. I was there because it was my turn to represent our faculty at convocation. After the ceremony, I passed them in a long hallway, and Leslie and I simultaneously noticed each other.As Leslie Ryan introduced me to her family, I could not help focusing my attention on Danny. A slender boy with medium-length (for a boy) light blonde hair, blue eyes, and fine features, he was impec-cably dressed in a navy suit, red tie, and black shoes. As Leslie intro-duced him to me, I tried to notice his response, to see whether he recognized my name. I couldn’t tell.Looking at Danny, it was difficult to imagine him wearing high heels and a dress. He looked good as a boy—if an unusually formally dressed one. When the family friend’s daughter showed up, she told him how handsome he looked, and he beamed. This was not a girl in boy’s clothing.As we congregated in the hallway, I watched Danny interact. Shy at first, he whispered quietly to his sister. Then someone asked him about Convocation. He cocked his head back dramatically, threw his forearm across his eyes and said, “I thought it was entirely too long.Must they read every single name?” His word choice was obviously unusual, for an eight-year-old boy, and his speech style was precise and somewhat prissy. This was not a typical boy, either.A few moments later, Danny said: “Mummy, I need to go to the men’s room.” I am certain that as he said that, he emphasized “men’s”and looked my way. And off he went, by himself. At that moment, I became as certain as I can be of Danny’s future.

I am indebted to Janice G. Raymond for her pioneering book, The TranssexualEmpire (1994, published 1979). Her work is the foundation on whichfeminist criticism of transgenderism has been built, and continues to inspireradical feminist thought. I am grateful to all those friends who have read andcommented upon chapters of this book: Lorene Gottschalk, Lynne Harne,Kathy Chambers, Ruth Margerison. Lorene Gottschalk’s contribution wasparticularly valuable. She was much involved in the initial stages of this pro-ject and contributed to the writing of half of the chapters, and she conductedthe three interviews that have been so important to Chapters 3 and 4. I amgrateful, too, to the new wave of radical feminism both online and offline.Radical feminist bloggers such as Gallus Mag from ‘GenderTrender’ (n.d.a)and Dirt from ‘Dirt from Dirt’, among others, have provided invaluable fac-tual material, references and ideas on their blogs, without which it wouldhave been harder to write this book. Indeed, over the period that this bookhas been incubating, radical feminist bloggers strengthened and clarifi ed myanalysis. Radical feminist activists have provided venues at which I have beenable to test out my thinking, these being the two very successful radicalfeminist conferences in London – Rad Fem 2012 and Rad Fem 2013. Iowe much to these brave women. I salute the courage and tenacity of thoseradical feminists who are making it possible for radical feminists to   furthering radical feminist analysis. I intend this book as a contribution to the considerable struggle that is presently taking place between mainly male transgender activists and radical feminists over who has the right todefi ne what a woman is: women, or men who fantasise about being women.I am thankful for the support I continue to receive from the University ofMelbourne, which has provided a crucible over the last two decades in whichto develop my ideas, research and write.This book will explore the harms created by the ideology and practice oftransgenderism, a phenomenon that developed in the mid to late twentiethcentury. Transgenderism has only been an accepted disorder for which thetreatment of choice is the administration of hormones, and perhaps ampu-tation or other surgery, for a comparatively short time. Many US physicianscontested the idea of such treatments for the condition until the 1970s, andsome still do (Meyerowitz, 2002 ). In the 1990s, partly as a result of the potentialfor networking created by the Internet, a political movement of transgenderactivism was created to campaign for transgender ‘rights’. Considerable social,political and legal changes are occurring in response, and there is increasingacceptance by governments and many other organisations and actors of thelegitimacy of such rights. These changes have ramifi cations for lesbian andgay existence and the lesbian and gay community; for the health and lifechances of transgenders themselves; for the possibilities of women’s equality;for organisations, workplaces, services and the law. There is now a copiousliterature on transgenderism, on its history, treatment, theory and practice.But this literature is generally positive towards the phenomenon, seeing trans-genders as constituting an essential category of persons that has been deniedrights and needs recognition. Some of this literature makes the claim thattransgenderism is transgressive and part of a revolutionary process of socialchange, because it destabilises the ‘gender binary’.This book takes a quite diff erent approach. It argues, from a feminist per-spective, that transgenderism is but one way in which ‘gender’ hurts peopleand societies. Transgenderism depends for its very existence on the idea thatthere is an ‘essence’ of gender, a psychology and pattern of behaviour, whichis suited to persons with particular bodies and identities. This is the oppositeof the feminist view, which is that the idea of gender is the foundation ofthe political system of male domination. ‘Gender’, in traditional patriarchalthinking, ascribes skirts, high heels and a love of unpaid domestic labour tothose with female biology, and comfortable clothing, enterprise and initiative to those with male biology. In the practice of transgenderism, traditionalgender is seen to lose its sense of direction and end up in the minds and bod-ies of persons with inappropriate body parts that need to be corrected. Butwithout ‘gender’, transgenderism could not exist. From a critical, feministpoint of view, when transgender rights are inscribed into law and adopted byinstitutions, they instantiate ideas that are harmful to women’s equality andgive authority to outdated notions of essential diff erences between the sexes.Transgenderism is indeed transgressive, but of women’s rights rather than anoppressive social system.This book is necessary now because the practice of transgendering adultsand children has been normalised in Western cultures but very little critiqueexists. There is evidence of an increasing criticism of the practice both fromwithin a developing new wave of online feminism and from within the med-ical profession, but this is met with considerable resistance from transgenderactivists. Critics are labelled ‘transphobic’, subjected to Internet campaigns ofvilifi cation, and, in some cases, there are attempts by transgender activists toexpel such insubordinate persons from their jobs or threaten their reputa-tions. Nonetheless, the understanding of transgenderism is at a tipping pointand there is evidence of a desire to rethink approaches to the practice. Forinstance, a conference was organised by the Royal College of Psychiatrists’Gay and Lesbian Special Interest Group for 20 May 2011 in London, entitled‘Transgender: Time to Change’, which might have provided a platform forcritical voices. Unfortunately, it was cancelled because of pressure from trans-gender lobbyists (Green, 2011 ).There are attempts to censor all expressions of dissent towards malestreamtransgender ideology and to prohibit speaking platforms to those seen asheretics. This campaign against free speech is particularly directed against theburgeoning of an online radical feminist movement that is incisively critical oftransgenderism. This includes feminists who operate under their own namesand a far greater number who use pseudonyms, keenly aware of the severeharassment they face if their identities are revealed. These include Gallus Magfrom GenderTrender (GenderTrender, n.d.b), and Dirt from the blog, TheDirt from Dirt, Change your World, Not your Body (Dirt from Dirt, n.d.),and many other critical voices.An indication of the campaign being waged against feminist critics bytransgender activists is the way that I have been prohibited from speakingnot just on this issue, but on any issue at all. I was disinvited from a majorfeminist conference, ‘Feminism in London’ in November 2011, which, subse-quently, did not take place because of concerns about off ending transgenders.I was banned from speaking at a feminist conference in July 2012 in London,which had to take place at a secret venue, after a campaign of vilifi cation bytransgender activists (Jeff reys, 2012a ). But this suppression of debate cannot continue indefi nitely, since there is mounting interest in airing the contro-versy more publicly. Indeed, in early 2013, the issue exploded into publicview as a result of an article in the Observer newspaper in the UK by col-umnist Julie Burchill, which was critical of the harassment of her colleagueSuzanne Moore by transgender activists (Young, 2013 ). Burchill’s piece wascensored and removed from the website, only to be posted on many otherwebsites sympathetic to her critique. Transgenderism was in the public eyeand this time it was clear the practice was no longer beyond dispute. Thisbook, therefore, is timely.The idea and practices of gender have the potential to hurt many. Intransgenderism the hurt can take several forms. People who feel that their‘gender’ does not fi t their bodies may suff er psychological hurts, and theythen get physically ‘hurt’ by the medical profession that diagnoses and treatsthem. They are further hurt after treatment when they fi nd themselves mar-ginalised and excluded, and some may even consider that they have made amistake that cannot be easily rectifi ed. This book goes further than other lit-erature on the topic, by exploring the wider social and political context andimplications of the phenomenon of transgenderism. It looks at others whoare hurt too, such as the wives who fi nd their husbands now consider them-selves to be women; lesbian partners whose lesbianism is thrown into doubtwhen their girlfriends become ‘men’; and the mothers who grieve for theirlost daughters or sons. All these categories of persons who are hurt by trans-genderism are women, and this is the case whether the aspirants are male orfemale. Transgenderism hurts lesbian communities, which are fractured overthe entryism of men who transgender, and the disappearance of their mem-bers to the chemically and surgically constructed heterosexuality that trans-genderism off ers to increasing numbers of lesbians. The feminist movement,too, is harmed as transgender activists and theorists savagely criticise feminismand seek to destroy women-only spaces and services by their entryism. Thesuccess of the destabilising campaigns against feminism and the women-onlyprinciple depends upon confusion about what ‘gender’ means.Gender and women’s equalityTransgenderism cannot exist without a notion of essential ‘gender’. Feministcritics argue that the concept of ‘gender identity’ is founded upon stereo-types of gender, and, in international law, gender stereotypes are recognisedas being in contradiction to the interests of women (Hausman, 1995 ; Jeff reys, ; Raymond, 1994 ). The United Nations Convention on the Eliminationof all Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) (1979) was drawnup before the language of gender and the idea of ‘gender identity’ came todominate international law discourse and to stand in for women as a sex category. It spoke instead of ‘stereotyped roles’ and recognised these stereo-types as the basis for discrimination against women. Article 5 says that StatesParties should takeall appropriate measures [to] modify the social and cultural patterns ofconduct of men and women, with a view to achieving the eliminationof prejudice and customary and all other practices which are based onthe idea of the inferiority or the superiority of either of the sexes or onstereotyped roles for men and women.(CEDAW, 1979 : Article 5)The idea of ‘gender identity’ relies on stereotypes for its meaning and is indirect confl ict with the understanding in CEDAW that such stereotypes areprofoundly harmful to women.The term ‘gender’ itself is problematic. It was used in a sense thatwas not simply about grammar by sexologists – the scientists of sex such asJohn Money in the 1950s and 1960s – who were involved in normalisingintersex infants. They used the term to mean the behavioural characteristicsthey considered most appropriate for persons of one or other biological sex.They applied the concept of gender when deciding upon the sex categoryinto which those infants who did not have clear physical indications of onebiological sex or another should be placed (Hausman, 1995 ). Their purposewas not progressive. These were conservative men who believed that thereshould be clear diff erences between the sexes and sought to create distinctsex categories through their projects of social engineering. Unfortunately, theterm was adopted by some feminist theorists in the 1970s, and by the lates was commonly used in academic feminism to indicate the diff erencebetween biological sex and those characteristics that derived from politicsand not biology, which they called ‘gender’ (Haig, 2004 ).Before the term ‘gender’ was adopted, the term more usually used todescribe these socially constructed characteristics was ‘sex roles’. The word‘role’ connotes a social construction and was not susceptible to the degen-eration that has afflicted the term ‘gender’ and enabled it to be wielded soeff ectively by transgender activists. As the term ‘gender’ was adopted moreextensively by feminists, its meaning was transformed to mean not just thesocially constructed behaviour associated with biological sex, but the systemof male power and women’s subordination itself, which became known asthe ‘gender hierarchy’ or ‘gender order’ (Connell, 2005 ; Mackinnon, 1989 ).Gradually, older terms to describe this system, such as male domination, sexclass and sex caste went out of fashion, with the eff ect that direct identifi ca-tion of the agents responsible for the subordination of women – men – couldno longer be named. Gender, as a euphemism, disappeared men as agents in male violence against women, which is now commonly referred to as ‘genderviolence’. Increasingly, the term ‘gender’ is used, in official forms and legisla-tion, for instance, to stand in for the term ‘sex’ as if ‘gender’ itself is biological,and this usage has overwhelmed the feminist understanding of gender.Sex casteIn this book I have chosen to use the term ‘sex caste’ to describe the polit-ical system in which women are subordinated to men on the basis of theirbiology. Feminists have disagreed over whether women’s condition of sub-ordination is best referred to in terms of ‘caste’ or ‘class’. Those who use theconcept of women as a ‘sex class’, such as Kate Millett, are referencing theirexperience in left-wing politics and see the idea of‘class’ as off ering thepossibility of revolution (Millett, 1972 ). Millett did, however, use the termcaste as well, speaking of women’s ‘sexual caste system’ (Millett, 1972 : 275). Ifwomen are in a subordinate class in relation to men, as the working class is inrelation to the bourgeoisie, then women’s revolution can be conceptualisedas overthrowing the power of men in such a way that sex class ceases to havemeaning and will disappear as a meaningful category (Wittig, 1992 ). It alsoimplies, as in left theory, that women’s revolution requires the recognition bywomen of their ‘sex’ class status as the basis for political action. Nonetheless,the term sex class can be problematic because it implies that women couldmove out of their ‘class’, in the same way that individual working class peoplecould change their class position by becoming embourgeoised. The term‘caste’, on the other hand, is useful for this book because it encapsulates theway in which women are placed into a subordinate caste status for their life-time (see Burris, 1973 ). Women may change their economic class status withupward mobility, but they remain women unless they elect to transgenderand claim membership in the superior sex caste. Both of these terms can beuseful in articulating the condition of women, but the term ‘caste’ off ers aparticular advantage in relation to studying transgenderism. The very exist-ence of transgenderism on the part of women demonstrates the stickinessof caste subordination. The marks of caste remain attached to females unlessthey claim that they are really ‘men’, and only a very signifi cant social trans-formation will enable change in this respect.Postmodern and queer theorists share with transgender theorists the ideathat ‘gender’ is a moveable feast that can be moved into and out of, swappedand so forth. Gender, used in this sense, disappears the fi xedness of sex, the bio-logical basis that underlies the relegation of females to their sex caste. Femaleinfants are identifi ed by biology at birth and placed into a female sex caste,which apportions them lifelong inferior status. The preference for biologic-ally male children and the femicide of female infants, for instance, which has created a great inequality in the sex ratio in India and other countries, is basedon sex and not ‘gender’. Female foetuses are aborted and female infants arekilled because of sex, not ‘gender’ discrimination (Pande, 2006 ). Foetuses donot have ‘gender’ or ‘gender identity’, because the forces of a woman-hatingculture have not had a chance to aff ect the way they understand themselves.The inferior sex caste status of women is assigned with reference to their biol-ogy, and it is through their biology that their subordination is enforced andmaintained through rape, impregnation and forced childbearing. Women donot pass in and out of wearing ‘women’s’ clothing, as cross-dressers may do,indeed they may reject such clothing as inferiorising, but still suff er violenceand discrimination as women. Though individual women may be successful inroles more usually arrogated to men, they are likely to be treated as interlopersand receive sexual harassment, as happened to the Australian Prime MinisterJulia Gillard (Summers, 2013 ). Her caste status was continually thrown in herface by hostile male commentators, politicians and cartoonists. Women do notdecide at some time in adulthood that they would like other people to under-stand them to be women, because being a woman is not an ‘identity’. Women’sexperience does not resemble that of men who adopt the ‘gender identity’ ofbeing female or being women in any respect. The idea of ‘gender identity’disappears biology and all the experiences that those with female biology haveof being reared in a caste system based on sex. Only one book-length critiqueof transgenderism was written in second wave feminism, Janice Raymond’sdeservedly well-known tour de force, The Transsexual Empire (1994, pub-lished 1979). She usefully sums up the diff erence between feminist under-standings of women and those of men who transgender thus:We know that we are women who are born with female chromosomesand anatomy, and that whether or not we were socialized to be so-callednormal women, patriarchy has treated and will treat us like women.Transsexuals have not had this same history. No man can have the his-tory of being born and located in this culture as a woman. He can havethe history of wishing to be a woman and of acting like a woman, but thisgender experience is that of a transsexual, not of a woman. Surgery mayconfer the artifacts of outward and inward female organs but it cannotconfer the history of being born a woman in this society.(Raymond, 1994 : 114) (emphasis in original)Are women a fi gment of men’s imagination?Men have been adjudicating on what women are, and how they shouldbehave, for millennia through the institutions of social control such as religion, the medical profession, psychoanalysis, the sex industry (Millett, ). Feminists have fought to remove the defi nition of what a womanis from these masculine institutions and develop their own understand-ings. Claims to the ‘right’ to self defi ne ‘gender’, subject womanhood tomen’s power to defi ne once again. The major task of feminist theory was tobring women out from under the weight of men’s defi nitions and theories.Feminists developed what has been called ‘feminist standpoint theory’ todescribe a new form of knowledge about women, that which is formed outof women’s experience as an oppressed group and refi ned through struggleand collective process (Harding (ed.), 2004 ). The very basis of feminism isthis declaration of independence, the rejection of men’s ‘knowledge’ aboutwomen and the privileging of our own. Men’s ideas about what womenare have been formed from their ruling caste position, and have assignedwomen characteristics that would most advantage their masters, as well asjustify men’s rule over them. They do not represent ‘truth’ but have beenpromoted as if they were, with the backing of science and patriarchal viewsof biology. It is remarkable, therefore, that men’s views of what women are,in the form of transgender ideology, have gained any traction whatsoeverin any branch of feminist theory. But, as I shall explain in Chapter 2 ontransgenderism and feminism, they have, to the point where men who havetransgendered are invited as keynote speakers to conferences on women’sexperience.Beyond all else, transgenderism on the part of men can be seen as aruthless appropriation of women’s experience and existence. The men whoclaim womanhood do not have any experience of being women, and thusshould not have the right to speak as ‘women’. Indeed, these men are oftenvery conservative and hypermasculine. The American transgender helicop-ter pilot, Bob Tur, explains this point well:Well actually true transgenders do hypermasculine things. Kristin Beckthe Navy Seal is not atypical of what’s going on. There are a lot of air-line pilots, a lot of military pilots. I’ve known all kinds of pilots, I’veknown spies, I’ve done quasi-military fl ights overseas. So, um, its not, itsnot atypical. It’s a fairly standard thing. The typical transgender tends tobe 30 IQ points above average, they tend to be left handed, they tendto be fairly conservative, they’ve been married, have children. And they,you know, in some cases have hypermasculine traits.(Tur, 2013 )Tur’s interesting confessions suggest that there is nothing progressive aboutmen’s fantasies of being women, quite the reverse.The meaning of the term transgender is constantly being extended. Beforethe 1990s, the term used to refer to someone who wanted to change their‘sex’ was transsexual. In the 1990s the term transgender was commonlyadopted to refer to those persons who did not want to go so far as havingsurgery for the removal of their secondary sexual characteristics but wantedto change their ‘gender’, generally understood as appearance markers such asclothing. By the late 1990s, the term transsexualism was falling out of favour,and the term transgenderism had been adopted in the academy and in out-reach services to refer to those would previously have been considered trans-sexuals, to the new category who wished to change ‘gender’ without surgery,and even to effeminate gay men and cross-dressers. It has also transmogrifi edinto a very general term indeed, to include occasional cross-dressers or eventhose who are seen as not having a ‘gender’. The development of this term,and its fast change in meaning, has been so profound as to allow arguments bysome transactivists that homosexuals are themselves simply a subcategory oftransgenders (Whittle et al ., 2007 : 14). In the last decade the term transgenderhas been adopted into policy documents and into the law.Transgenderism has become an umbrella term for a great variety of per-sons who are uncomfortable with traditional gender roles, but who, with-out a feminist analysis that gender itself is the problem, seek to act out theirdiscomfort through adopting elements of the opposite gender stereotype.The increasing vagueness of the category has in no way impeded the swiftadoption of the term transgender, and the idea of the ‘right’ of transgendersto exercise their ‘gender expression’, within state legislatures and regionalforums such as the European Union. All the forms in which the term isused depend upon the idea of an essential gender that can be played with,or ‘transed’, but not dispensed with, and so all forms of transgenderism areequally problematic from the point of view of feminist theorists. They allgive oxygen to a concept, gender, which forms the foundation and justifi ca-tion for the subordination of women. This book will seek to keep up withall the transmogrifi cations of transgenderism, while pointing out the harmsthat issue from it.The physical transformations created by hormones and surgery do notchange the biological sex of the persons upon whom they are visited. For thisreason, in this volume, persons of the male sex who transgender are referredto as men who transgender, or male-bodied transgenders, and those of thefemale sex as women who transgender, or female-bodied transgenders, inorder to indicate their biological sex. The more common terms male-to-female (MTF) and female-to-male (FTM) are not used here because they givethe mistaken impression that sex can be changed when, in fact, it cannot. Transgenderism is not connected with intersexuality. Persons who areintersex are born with ‘a reproductive or sexual anatomy that doesn’t seemto fi t the typical defi nitions of female or male’ (ISNA, n.d.). Intersex activistsdo not campaign for sex-reassignment surgery, and are often incisively criticalof it, on the grounds that it has been traditionally employed to cut intersexinfants up to fi t one sex caste category or another, with harmful eff ects ontheir functioning (Dreger, 1998 ). Some transgender online personalities pro-claim that they are intersex to make out that they are not biologically male,but intersexuality and transgenderism are diff erent phenomena (ISNA, n.d.).Intersexuality has a biological basis, whereas this book will argue that ‘genderidentity’ is a mental condition.PronounsPronoun use is a great concern of persons who transgender. They wish otherpeople, including their wives, partners and children, to call them by theirnew, adopted pronouns. The disagreement over pronoun use is a political one.The masculine pronoun may no longer, acceptably, be used as if it were gen-eric and included women, for instance. I have chosen to use pronouns thatindicate the biological sex of the persons whose work is discussed here for anumber of reasons. The is that the biological sex of transgender personsdoes not change and use of the pronoun of origin indicates this. This is pol-itically important, since it is useful for feminists to know the biological sexof those who claim to be women and promote prejudicial versions of whatconstitutes womanhood. Also, use by men of feminine pronouns conceals themasculine privilege bestowed upon them by virtue of having been placed inand brought up in the male sex caste. If men are addressed as ‘she’, then all thisprivilege, which aff ects their speaking position and may be crucial to theirchoice to be ‘women’ in the place, is disappeared.Another reason for adherence to pronouns that indicate biology is that,as a feminist, I consider the female pronoun to be an honorifi c, a term thatconveys respect. Respect is due to women as members of a sex caste that havesurvived subordination and deserve to be addressed with honour. Men whotransgender cannot occupy such a position. This argument is used by femalepartners of men who transgender in Chapter 4 . They often fi nd it impossibleto accept that their husbands have become women, and cannot use pronounsfor them that they understand to be specifi c to their own experience aswomen. As this book will argue, the perspectives of wives and female part-ners are important and should be respected. Also, sticking to the pronouns oforigin avoids the difficulty of adjudicating on which men should be referredto as female, those who simply occasionally cross-dress, or those who takehormones, or those who undertake sex-reassignment surgery. Creating such distinctions is an odious task, and since they all retain male biology it is morestraightforward to retain pronouns that indicate their sex. Also, persons whoregret transgendering may decide upon a return to their pronouns of origin,or they may in some cases go back and forth a number of times with complexchanges of pronoun at each turn. Use of the pronouns of origin avoids theneed for potentially numerous changes over time.The two opening chapters of the book show how the idea of transgender-ism developed and was able to gain traction from the mid-twentieth centuryonwards. Chapter 1 examines the construction of transgenderism by medicalspecialisms such as endocrinology, surgery and psychology. Chapter 2 ana-lyses the factors that have enabled swathes of the feminist and lesbian andgay movements to support transgender rights, such as the development ofqueer and postmodern theory, which promoted the idea that there was reallyno such thing as ‘woman’ and that playing with and switching ‘gender’ wasa transgressive practice. The third chapter ‘Doing transgender: really hurting’examines the most immediately harmful impact of the construction of trans-genderism. It will analyse the literature on the psychological and physicaleff ects of transgender surgery and long-term hormone use on transgendersthemselves. It will describe the harmful practices involved in transgenderpractice from breast binding to genital surgery, and repeated facial surgeries,and who profi ts from them.The following chapters examine the social, political and legal eff ects ofthe construction of the phenomenon. Two chapters look at the harms to thewives, girlfriends and lesbian partners of transgenders, whose lives are sub-stantially aff ected when their partners transition. Increasingly, women whosehusbands have transgendered are speaking out and engaging in resistance. Amajority of men who transgender (Lawrence, 2004 ) have histories of cross-dressing for sexual excitement, and these men are frequently married andhave children before they make the decision to go further. The wives suff erfrom having their identities challenged by husbands who claim to be lesbiansand may require their female partners to identify as lesbians too. Similarly,the lesbian partners of women who transgender have to redefi ne themselvesas heterosexual women if they wish to remain in relationships with womenwho now see themselves as heterosexual men. In both cases, non-trans part-ners fi nd themselves taking on considerable amounts of unpaid labour tosupport their trans partners, such as the need to be more feminine to help alesbian partner feel more masculine. Partners have to provide unpaid nursingservices, perform injections, arrange appointments, take their partners shop-ping, save up and pay for the surgeries. They have to manage exposure, or the need to, as they put it, remain in the closet about their partners’ practice. Theyreceive little support or acknowledgement for the psychological harm theyendure, which some psychologists are now likening to post-traumatic stress.Another chapter details a very worrying eff ect of transgender activism andthe lobbying of the medical profession, the transgendering of children.The fi nal two chapters examine the practical eff ects of the campaign fortransgender rights for all women, including entry of men who transgenderinto women’s toilets and prisons, and into women’s spaces such as domesticviolence refuges. Chapter 7, entitled ‘A clash of rights’ examines the way in which the demand for recognition in law of the ‘right’ to gender and to ‘gender expression’ constitutes a clash with the rights of women. This chapter willexplore the ways in which the law is being changed in Western countries toaccommodate ‘gender rights’ and the implications of these changes. One ofthe primary aims of transgender activist groups is to enable men who trans-gender to access ‘gendered spaces’ such as women’s festivals, women’s refuges,sexual violence services, women’s sheltered housing, toilets and prisons. Thesespaces have been set up to service the interests of women as a subordin-ate group, to allow for social and political organisation separate from malecontrol, for privacy and security from men’s violence. The determination toenter these spaces by men who consider themselves transgender has led toconsiderable stress within women’s communities. In some cases this has ledto the suspension of women’s festivals or abandonment of attempts to createwomen’s centres, in ways that are very problematic for the communities ofwomen that they were intended to serve.There is very little critical literature about transgenderism that could formthe foundation for this book. Since Janice Raymond’s groundbreaking TheTranssexual Empire in 1979, there has been an almost complete absence offeminist critical work, amid an avalanche of research and writing that takesa positive, if not celebratory, approach to the topic. For this reason it hasbeen necessary to read the celebratory or supportive literature that does exist‘against the grain’, that is to extract the copious evidence of the harm oftransgenderism that is plain even in that which purports to promote the prac-tice. As well as reading against the grain, I have used analogies in two chapters,and three key interviews carried out by Lorene Gottschalk, in order to revealwhat the academic and popular literature does not.In two chapters I have used analogies to show similarities between trans-genderism and either homosexuality or eugenics, with the objective of dem-onstrating the harms amid a desert of any form of criticism. For the fi rstchapter on the historical and sexological construction of transgenderism, I found it very helpful to make an analogy with the construction of homo-sexuality as a category. In the absence of critical approaches to the construc-tion of transgenderism in academic or popular literature, this off ered a usefulway in, especially since the two practices are very connected in obvious ways.Similarly, I used an analogy in the chapter on the transgendering of chil-dren, likening it to the practice of sexual surgeries that were carried out bythose inspired by the ideas of eugenics, in order to highlight the harm in theabsence of any critical literature.I had to develop my criticism of transgender theory without any help-ful pointers from other critical literature because published material of thiskind does not exist. But the growing critical commentary by online radicalfeminists has been very useful in this respect. I am grateful to my sisters bothfor the factual information they provide on websites and blogs, and for theirtheoretical contributions. It is about time that academic feminism caught upwith the bloggers of the new wave of radical feminism and produced morecritical writing and research.For Chapter 3, which deals with the harms of transgenderism to transgen-ders themselves, two interviews were conducted. There is very little criticalliterature about the process of transgendering from those who have gonethrough it, because the problem of transgender regret, in which men andwomen speak and write about de-transitioning back to their original sexbecause of their profound dissatisfaction, has only recently been moving intothe public domain. Two interviews were conducted for this book with per-sons who have de-transitioned – a man, Walt Heyer, and a woman, HeathRussell.Another interview was also conducted to provide fi rst-hand evidence ofthe harms of men’s practice of transgenderism to their wives. Collections ofthe accounts of their experience by wives and mothers of transgenders, andindividual biographies by women whose husbands and male partners havetransgendered, though not intended to be critical of the practice nonethelesscontain a great deal of material that demonstrates the ways in which it hurtsthem severely. I have used this material here. There is one biography of a wifewho is unequivocally critical and this has been very useful (Benvenuto, 2012 ).The interview with the female partner of a man who has transgendered washelpful in gaining a picture of her experience from someone with a criticaleye and a developed critique of the phenomenon. All three interviewees usedin this book were sourced through the online networks that are beginning toform of those critical of the practice. They have been a vital resource in theabsence of critical literature.There is beginning to be interesting research carried out on women whotransgender and their partners by feminist academics, which has been usefulto Chapter 5 of this book (Brown, 2007 , 2009 , 2010 ; Pfeff er, 2008 , 2010 ). This work does not state that it takes a critical approach and, indeed, evinces nonegative views regarding the practice of transgenderism itself, but does off ermost useful information towards understanding the harmful impact of thetransgendering of lesbians on their female partners. It may be that this issue isof concern to feminist and lesbian feminist academics because it is happeningin their communities and is close to home.In relation to the law on transgender rights, I discovered no critical litera-ture and no literature that off ered caveats as to the potential clash with wom-en’s rights. In this area much work needs to be done. There is also no literatureon the impact of transgender inclusion in women’s services and spaces, apartfrom that of Lorene Gottschalk, which is used in Chapter 8 . There is a need for a great deal more research in these areas. To supplement the scanty criticalliterature that exists on several of the themes in the book, I have had recourseto the websites and blogs of transgender activists themselves, which have beena rich source for showing the rapid development of the transgender rightsmovement and some of its more bizarre outer reaches.The importance of social constructionTo place all of these issues in context, it is necessary to examine how thephenomenon of transgenderism was constructed, historically and politically.This is the task of Chapter 1 . I am very aware that new generations of fem-inist, lesbian and gay activists and thinkers may fi nd the idea of social con-struction difficult to accept. The idea that homosexuality and transgenderismare innate has become quite dominant today, whereas at the time of secondwave feminism, the understanding that gender and sexuality were sociallyconstructed was a commonplace. This book is premised on the understandingthat transgenderism is a social construct, and for this reason I have chosen todeal with the issue of social construction in some detail.This book argues that transgenderism is a social construction of the mid tolate twentieth century. The concept of ‘transgenderism’ was, as the anthro-pologist David Valentine puts it, ‘institutionalised’ in the 1990s (Valentine, ). Since that time, a new transgender history has been created to supportthe ideas and practices of transgender activists. This new history states thatthere have always been people who were essentially ‘transgenders’, through-out history (Prosser, 1998 ; Stryker, 2008 ). Transgender persons, these activ-ists say, were aided in the twentieth century by the development of medicalspecialisms that enabled them to ‘come out’ of the transgender closet andrealise their need to change sex. This chapter will contest this version of his-tory, a history that only makes sense if transgenderism is understood to bebased upon an essential quality, that which some sexologists call the ‘femin-ine essence’ idea (Dreger, 2008). If that premise is rejected, it is necessary toexplain how the phenomenon of transgenderism has come about, and thischapter will attempt this task. I will argue that, far from being a constant inhistory and across cultures, transgenderism is a quite recent construction. Thischapter will focus on men who transgender because the ideology and prac-tices of transgenderism were invented by men. While women formed a smallminority of those seeking to transgender before the 1990s, they have becomean increasing proportion since that time, and have sought to slot themselvesinto a set of ideas constructed by male scientists of sex, and the men whowere the main demanders of sex reassignment (Jeff reys, 2003 ). The diff er-ences between men and women’s transgender behaviour will be consideredin detail in a later chapter.The term transsexual was coined in the 1950s to describe those personswho wished to change their sex, and popularised by the endocrinologistHarry Benjamin in his book, The Transsexual Phenomenon (1966). The termtransgender was coined by the male – and according to his protestations, het-erosexual – cross-dresser Virginia Prince, who sought to distinguish himselffrom those identifi ed as transsexuals, and to create a more acceptable face fora practice previously understood as a ‘paraphilia’ – a form of sexual fetishism(Prince, 2005b ). Prince’s adoption of the term was part of what I will callhere the ‘move to gender’, in which both cross-dressing and transsexual-ism came to be understood as expressions of an internal or essential gender,rather than simply being hobbies carried out for sexual excitement. The term‘transgender’ was then normalised through the queer politics of the 1990s,when it was adopted to convey a wide meaning encompassing all those whowere seen as engaging in behaviour most usually allotted to the oppositesex, from butch lesbians to cross-dressing, gay, prostituted men. Presently, theterm transgender is used in common parlance to refer to those who wouldonce have been called ‘transsexual’, a word that is no longer much in use. Thischapter will seek to explain why this most important change in terminologyhas taken place. The term transgender is used in this book in the way it ismost commonly used in the present, to refer to those who consider them-selves to have a ‘gender identity’ that diff ers from what, in male-supremacistsocieties, is associated with their biological sex.The construction of the homosexualThe idea that transgenderism is socially constructed will be controversial. Intransgender ideology, persons who transgender are seen as being in possessionof an ‘essence’ – consisting of clothing or habits – of the ‘gender’ more usuallyassociated with the opposite sex. This essence is understood to be the resulteither of an accident of biology, or as the product of some other mysteriousand not usually identifi able process, and therefore ‘natural’. For instance, in herbook Second Skins , Jay Prosser specifi cally rejects the constructionist approach,arguing that transgender persons existed prior to and outside the forces of con-struction that I shall outline here (Prosser, 1998 ). Accusations of ‘transphobia’and ‘transmisogyny’ are regularly directed at anyone who questions the essen-tialist discourse that such transgender activists subscribe to. But, interestingly,similar accusations of ‘homophobia’ were not, and are not, directed at thoselesbian and gay historians and researchers who argue that the ‘homosexual’ is asocial construction. The idea that the homosexual is not someone innately des-tined to be sexually attracted to their own sex is also controversial in large partsof the gay community, but has not led to such vitriol and invective. The inven-tion of the homosexual is instructive in demonstrating how the ‘transgender’also came to exist, because the idea that there is such an entity as a transgenderperson follows the script for the construction of the concept of the ‘homosex-ual’ by male sexologists, or scientists of sex, in the nineteenth century. The construction of transgenderismin the late twentieth century resem-bles, in important respects, the construction of the homosexual. The 1960sand 1970s were the glory days of social constructionism in the social sciences.Lesbian and gay theorists and historians, educated in the values of those times,argued that the idea of the homosexual, as a particular kind of person whowas destined by a congenital abnormality to be exclusively attracted to othersof the same sex, was in fact a social construction (Mackintosh, 1968 ; Weeks, ). The social constructionist approach was not without its critics in les-bian and gay academia. There were some who argued that the constructionof homosexuality owed something to biology as well as to culture (Dynes, ). Some of the constructionists themselves recognised that individ-ual homosexuals did not experience their identities as socially constructed,so there must be some recognition in social constructionist theory of thecogency of personal experience (Epstein, 1992 ). But for most lesbian andgay academics it was well understood that history, culture and politics con-structed the homosexual.There are disagreements as to when this construction primarily tookplace: in the late seventeenth century, when homosexual men gathered inMolly houses and clubs in London, as Mary Mackintosh ( 1968 ) argued; orin the nineteenth century, as Michel Foucault ( 1978 ) argued. However, itis clear that it was in the nineteenth century that signifi cant social institu-tions became involved in the construction of homosexuals as a distinct cat-egory of persons. The homosexual was constructed, in this understanding,from two main sources, the law and medicine, both of which, I will arguehere, have been fundamentally important to the construction of trans-genderism too. Lesbian and gay scholars explain that in the early part ofthe nineteenth century sexual behaviour was still regulated by the churchcourts (Weeks, 1977 ). There was no concept of the homosexual as such,but particular sexual practices were seen to be unacceptable, notably, inthis case, sodomy. As church courts went into desuetude, the criminal lawtook over as a regulator of correct sexual practice. Thus, in the late nine-teenth century in the UK, the Criminal Law Amendment Act of 1885 waspromulgated, which specifi cally made homosexual male sexual behaviourillegal. Under this legislation, Oscar Wilde was prosecuted in the 1890s,and his trial was widely publicised. All of this helped to crystallise the ideaof the homosexual. In the same period the science of sexology took overfrom religion to provide prescriptions of acceptable and unacceptable sex-ual behaviour.The detailed articulation within sociology of the idea that homo-sexuality was not a ‘condition’ but a ‘social role’ was by the lesbian sociolo-gist Mary Mackintosh in her path-breaking article, ‘The Homosexual Role’( 1968 ). She applied understandings from labelling theory to homosexuality,and argued that conceptualising the homosexual as a certain kind of per-son who suff ered from a condition operated as a form of social control,which ‘helps to provide a clear-cut, publicised, and recognizable thresholdbetween permissible and impermissible behaviour’ (Mackintosh, 1968 : 183).Mackintosh explained that, in relation to homosexuality, ‘[t]he creation of aspecialized, despised and punished role of homosexuality keeps the bulk ofsociety pure’ (Mackintosh, 1968 : 184). She says that psychologists and psychi-atrists take part in the labelling process in relation to homosexuality and thusin the ‘mechanisms of social control’. This way of seeing homosexuality isuseful for understanding transgenderism too. The creation of the transgenderrole can be seen as a way of separating off unacceptable gender behaviour,which might threaten the system of male domination and female subordin-ation, from correct gender behaviour, which is seen as suitable for persons ofa particular biological sex. In the case of homosexuality, the eff ect is to shoreup the idea of exclusive and natural heterosexuality; and, in the case of trans-genderism, the naturalness of sex roles.Mackintosh points out another aspect of the homosexual role that isrelevant to the ‘role’ of the transgender, which is that ‘homosexuals them-selves welcome and support the notion that homosexuality is a condition’(Mackintosh, 1968 : 184). This is because it removes the possibility of ‘driftingback into normality’ and ‘removes the element of anxious choice’. Thus thehomosexual, and perhaps the transgendered person today, can see themselvesas acting in a way that is legitimate for them, and they can continue to behavein that way without ‘rejecting the norms of the society’. Michel Foucaultproduced his own version of the social constructionist analysis in The Historyof Sexuality: Volume 1 , asserting that, in the nineteenth century, the homosex-ual ‘became a personage, a past, a case history, and a childhood, in addition tobeing a type of life, a life form, and a morphology’ (Foucault, 1978 : 43). Whenthis book was translated into English in 1978, his ideas created a new wave ofgay, social constructionist history and scholarship.There was no outburst from other gay men and lesbians in the 1960sand 1970s that such social constructionist accounts of homosexuality were‘homophobic’, but similar arguments about transgenderism today areattacked as ‘transphobic’. Within the social sciences they were well accepted,and Mackintosh’s analysis is now regarded as a classic in the fi eld (see Stein,). However, in relation to transgenderism over the last two decades, dur-ing which time the construction of this practice has been at its peak – withcertain notable exceptions (Gottschalk, 2003 ; Hausman, 1995 ; Jeff reys, 2006 , ) – there has been no such social constructionist analysis. This, in itself,presents a puzzle. Similarities between the construction of homosexualityand One important reason why the social construction of homosexuality isinstructive in understanding this process in relation to transgenderism is thatthe sexologists who were involved in creating the idea of the homosexual as aparticular type of person in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuriesdid not clearly distinguish homosexuality from what would later be under-stood as transvestism, transsexualism or transgenderism. A prime similarityin the sexological construction between the homosexual of the nineteenthcentury and the transgender person of today is that they are both understoodas biologically determined to act in the way that they do. Henry HavelockEllis’s Sexual Inversion ( 1927 , published 1897) is a good example of this.Ellis, whose work included detailed consideration of the work and conclu-sions of the many sexologists and psychoanalysts who preceded him, statedthat homosexuality, or sexual inversion was a ‘congenital abnormality’ (Ellis, : 318). He considered that the abnormality arose as a result of the ‘latentorganic bisexuality’ of each sex (Ellis, 1927 : 310). Ellis included in this under-standing cross-dressing by men, which he called Eonism, after the ChevalierD’Eon. In his opinion, Eonism, or transvestism, was separate but under thesame umbrella and created by the same biology. The invention of the term‘transvestite’ to describe a practice diff erent from homosexuality is attributedto the sexologist Magnus Hirschfeld, in a publication in 1910 (Blanchard, ).The other signifi cant similarity is that both the homosexual of sexologicaldiscourse and the ‘transgender’ person of today are seen as biologically des-tined to adopt the behaviour culturally associated, at a particular time in his-tory, with the opposite sex. The ‘inverted person’, Ellis explains, had ‘subtleapproximations to the opposite sex … both on the physical and the psychicside’ (Ellis, 1927 : 310). Another similarity is that there is little evidence tosupport the belief in biological determinism in either case. With no scientifi cevidence to support his belief, Ellis simply made an assertion about the exist-ence of male or female ‘germs’: ‘at conception the organism is provided withabout 50 per cent of male germs and about 50 per cent of female germs, andthat, as development proceeds, either the male or the female germs assumethe upper hand, until in the maturely developed individual only a few abortedgerms of the opposite sex are left’ (Ellis, 1927 : 311). In the homosexual, heconsidered, something goes wrong with the process ‘on account of somepeculiarity in the number or character of either the original male germsor female germs’ with the result ‘being a person who is more fi tted for theexercise of the inverted than of the normal sexual impulse’ (Ellis, 1927 : 310).This person may show no physical signs of inversion, but the congenitalabnormality may be evident in behaviour. Such behaviour may include, inEllis’s view, being left-handed, having a high feminine voice, feminine hand-writing or, in women, masculine handwriting. Many of the male cases herecounts showed the inability to whistle or, in female cases, the ability to‘whistle admirably’ (Ellis, 1927 : 291). Ellis argued that ‘inverted women’ alsoexpressed behaviours more usually associated with the opposite sex, that isthey ‘frequently, though not always, convey an impression of mannishness orboyishness’ (Ellis, 1927 : 251).Historically, those who loved and engaged in sexual relationships withpersons of the same sex were likely to engage also in cross-dressing and cross-gendered behaviour, camp, drag and effeminacy in relation to male homo-sexuals, and butchness and masculinity for lesbians. Mary Mackintosh quotesa description from 1729 of the way that homosexual men behaved in Mollyhouses where ‘members of the clubs adopt(ed) all the small vanities naturalto the feminine sex to such an extent that they try to speak, walk, chatter,shriek and scold as women do, aping them as well in other aspects’ (quotedin Mackintosh, 1968 : 188). The expression of behaviour seen as ‘belonging’to the other sex was an ordinary, if not the major, form in which homosexu-ality was practised. For this reason, lesbian and gay historians have routinelyincluded those exhibiting this behaviour in gay history. As John D’Emilioput it in his 1983 history of ‘sexual communities’ in the United States from–1970: ‘During the two decades of the twentieth century, malehomosexual transvestites and their ordinary-looking comrades made theirliaisons in saloons and clubs scattered through the least respectable parts oftown’ (D’Emilio, 1998 , published 1983: 12). His book was publishedbefore transgender activists and academics made a land grab for effeminategay men and butch lesbians to be included in transgender as opposed to ‘gay’history. D’Emilio characterised drag balls as being a part of gay history too,though they would likely be seen as expressions of ‘transgenderism’ today(D’Emilio, 1998 : 12).In the work of transgender activists and theorists today, those engaged insame-sex relationships in previous historical periods, and who cross-dressed,are separated out from the category homosexual and placed in the category‘transgender’. Jay Prosser, for instance, identifi es the character Stephen, inthe novel The Well of Loneliness , as an archetypal transgender (Prosser, 1998 ),though she has been characterised as a lesbian by lesbian historians (Doan, ; Newton, 1984 ). A more recent person to have been ‘transnapped’ byProsser and other transgender activists is Brandon Teena, the young womanwho dressed sometimes in male attire and was murdered in Nebraska in. Prosser says that it was quite wrong for the media to identify heras either female or as a lesbian, and shares the outrage of the transactiv-ist group Transsexual Menace, which formed in reaction to this perceived ‘queering’ of transgender experience. The anthropologist, David Valentine,on the other hand, says that ‘the unquestioned inclusion of people like …Brandon Teena into the encompassing category of “transgender” produces arepresentational colonisation of those lives’ (Valentine, 2007 : 229). CarolynGage, the US lesbian feminist playwright, has written eloquently about herconcerns at the transnapping of Brandon (Gage, 2010 ). She explains thatcrucial information is missing from the movie Boys Don’t Cry – made aboutBrandon – and from the writings by transgender activists that heroise her.The information includes the facts of her severe sexual abuse for years inher female childhood by a male relative. Gage draws similarities betweenBrandon’s mental health problems, her eating disorder and her identifi ca-tion with a male abuser with the experiences of other girls sexually abusedin similar ways. All of this makes her more typical of a young female abusesurvivor, she says, than of a man.I will argue that the category ‘transgender’ was created by forces of malepower, i.e. that it was created not just socially but politically. David Valentinesays that the task of his research on the development of transgenderism wasto investigate the ‘set of power relations whereby’ new categorisations arecreated and people are forced to adapt to ‘the political, social, cultural, andeconomic processes which underlie such power relations; and what eff ectssuch requirements have’ (Valentine, 2007 : 243). I will seek to identify theforces of male power that constructed transgenderism as a category separatefrom homosexuality in the twentieth century.Medicine creates transgenderismTransgenderism, when understood as the possibility of physically changingsex, only became thinkable as the result of developments in medicine in thetwentieth century. In her social constructionist account of the emergence oftransgenderism, Bernice Hausman explains that this association has not beenwell understood, asthese links between medical technology, medical practice, and theadvent of ‘sex change’ in the twentieth century have been ignoredby most scholars who study the subject, who more usually under-stand transsexualism as representative of a transhistorical desire of somehuman subjects to be the other sex.(Hausman, 1995 : 2)Endocrinology was the medical specialism that played the most signifi cantrole, and the two most infl uential doctors in advocacy for sex changes inthe mid-century were the endocrinologists Harry Benjamin and ChristianHamburger. Bernice Hausman argues that it was the ‘public disseminationof scientifi c knowledge of the human endocrine system’ that enabled ‘cer-tain human subjects’ to ‘understand themselves as members of the “other”sex’ (Hausman, 1995 : 26). Endocrinology, she explains, ‘provided medicinewith the tools to enforce sexual dimorphism – not only to examine anddescribe it’ (Hausman, 1995 : 38). Endocrinologists developed expertisewith hormones, which were originally, in the few decades of the twen-tieth century, introduced into the bodies of men who wanted to improvetheir virility by the insertion of goat testes. Later, artifi cial hormones thatmimicked the natural hormones produced by the human body provedmore efficacious. These hormones were used on intersex patients whomthe sexologists considered should be made to resemble more closely thesex category into which the doctors had placed them at birth. They werethen used on patients who wanted to change sex. Another medical spe-cialism needed to be at a particular stage of development to enable theplastic surgery to be performed – and this was anaesthesia (Stryker, 2008 ).The third medical specialism that enabled transgenderism was plastic sur-gery itself.The development of these medical specialisms was so important to theconstruction of transgenderism that the historian of sexuality, Vern Bullough,comments that he ‘once presented a paper’, in 1973, suggesting that transsexu-alism might be ‘iatrogenic’, that is a health problem created by medicine itself.It might exist, he says, ‘simply because surgeons could now do sex changesnot possible before’ (Bullough, 2006 : 4). Hausman explains that when therewas public knowledge about medical advances and technological capabil-ities, individuals could then name themselves as ‘the appropriate subjects ofparticular medical interventions, and thereby participate in the constructionof themselves as patients’ (Hausman, 1995 : 23). These medical developmentsenabled the construction of the idea of ‘gender identity’.The demandersIt would be wrong, Hausman argues, to see the patients who sought sexchanges as the passive victims of the treatments; rather ‘transsexual sub-jects’ played a defi ning role in the construction of transgenderism, through‘demanding’ surgery and drugs that they considered might help them in theiraspirations (Hausman, 1995 ). She says that it is ‘important’ to ‘underscore theagency of transsexual subjects insofar as they forced the medical professionto respond to their demands’ (Hausman, 1995 : 110). Hausman sees the alli-ance of transgenders with doctors as the defi ning element in the construc-tion of transgenderism. In 1980 it had led to the inclusion in the Diagnosticand Statistical Manual of gender identity disorder, which paved the way for treatment (ibid.). It recognised their desires as a form of mental illness causedby being possessed of an anomalous, but essential, ‘gender’.The identity of transgenders, therefore, depended on the medical pro-fession, and it was their demand for surgery that distinguished them fromthe other categories of sexual deviance that sexologists were involved indiagnosing and regulating, such as homosexuality. Whereas homosexualityis simply a form of behaviour that anyone can adopt, for the vast majorityof its acolytes, transgenderism represents a pilgrimage towards a goal thatcan only be realised through doctors because transsexuals ‘needed the serv-ices of professional physicians to achieve their goals’ (ibid.). As the historianof sexuality, Vern Bullough, points out, these medical developments ‘forcedmedicine and transsexuals to have a close alliance in the 1960s and 70s’ atthe same time as ‘gays, lesbians, bisexuals, transvestites, and later even inter-sex individuals’ were seeking to extricate themselves from medical control(Bullough, 2006 : 4).The demanders were overwhelmingly male, though there was alwaysa sprinkling of women among those demanding sex change, includingReed Erikson, a rich American woman who was able, through the EriksonFoundation, to fund and infl uence sexological research on transgender-ism (Meyerowitz, 2002 ). Before the most recent expansion of the category,the sexologists estimated there to be three men demanding surgery to onewoman. This ratio remains largely in place, with applicants for the UK GenderRecognition Certifi cate under the 2004 Gender Recognition Act being inprecisely the same ratio (Ministry of Justice, 2012 ). The male demanders fellinto two categories: homosexual men who felt unable to love men whileremaining in a male body; and men who were overwhelmingly heterosexual,and transgendered as a climax to their interest in cross-dressing (Blanchard, ).A wave of publicity that alerted men to the possibilities open to themoccurred in relation to the sex change of Christine Jorgensen, who falls intothe category. The historian of transgenderism, Joanne Meyerowitz, states‘In the 1950s Jorgensen made sex change a household term’ (Meyerowitz, : 51). Jorgensen’s case generated huge media interest in the UnitedStates. In his Transgender History , the transgender activist Susan Stryker saysthat ‘Jorgensen’s fame was a watershed event in transgender history’ (Stryker, : 49). Jorgensen was homosexual, and said in his memoirs that his ‘emo-tions were either those of a woman or a homosexual’ (Meyerowitz, 2008:). His preference was to consider himself a woman, perhaps because heconsidered homosexuality immoral: ‘it was a thing deeply alien to my reli-gious attitudes’ (quoted in Meyerowitz, 2008: 57). In a letter to a psychiatristin 1950/1951, Jorgensen described himself as a ‘homosexual’ with a ‘largeamount of femininity’ (quoted in Meyerowitz, 2008: 59). Within a few yearsboth Jorgensen and the doctors who treated him would emphasise the diff e-rence between his condition and that of homosexuality, and stress that hisproblem was ‘glandular’ (Meyerowitz, 2008: 61). But early in his career, theconcept of transgenderism had not been constructed with which Jorgensencould identify. Meyerowitz explains that it was Jorgensen’s endocrinologistwho told him that he was not homosexual but had a condition called ‘trans-vestism’, which was ‘deep-rooted in all the cells’ of his body (Meyerowitz,: 66).Opposition to transsexual surgery from psychiatristsThe idea of transsexualism as a condition that required treatment by hor-mones and surgery was not well accepted in these early years. Indeed,as Bullough points out, when Christine Jorgensen went public with hisexperience in the 1950s, a ‘turf war’ broke out in the medical professionabout the correct treatment for men like him. The turf war was betweenthose who dealt with the mind – and considered the fantasy of being awoman to be best treated by psychotherapy and surgery to be a ‘mutila-tion’; and endocrinologists and surgeons – who considered that the besttreatment was physical, in the alteration of the body (Bullough, 2006 : 7).In a 1968 paper, the psychiatrist Donald Hayes Russell voiced his oppos-ition to what he called ‘sex conversion’. He referred to ‘trans-sexualism’ as a‘newly described abnormality’, saying that ‘[t]raditionally, homosexuals andtransvestites are known for their proclivities to act like their opposite sex.Diff ering from these conditions is the relatively newly described abnor-mality – that of “trans-sexualism”’ (Russell, 1968 : 355). He weighed intothe controversy by saying that the condition ‘is generally considered to bepsychiatric, having its roots in early emotional development’ but that ‘somefew observers’, erroneously, ‘entertain the notion of some constitutionalmystique’ (ibid.).Today the ‘feminine essence’ theory is much more pervasive. But in thes this idea had not taken hold, and Russell considered those seekingsex change to be delusional, with the transsexual hoping to ‘really be trans-formed – through medical science – into something that he is not’ (ibid.).Russell explained that there were extremely serious ethical issues involved incarrying out surgery on aspirants, because[p]hysicians generally consider it unethical to destroy or alter tissueexcept in the presence of disease or deformity. The interference witha person’s natural procreative function entails defi nite moral tenets, bywhich not only physicians but also the general public are infl uenced.(Russell, 1968 : 356) He identifi ed transsexual surgery as ‘harm’ and says ‘[t]he administration ofphysical harm as treatment for mental or behavioral problems – as corpor-eal punishment, lobotomy for unmanageable psychotics and sterilization ofcriminals – is abhorrent in our society’ (ibid.). Moreover, he considered, phy-sicians should be careful because they could be sued for malpractice. Little didhe know at that time that these scruples would be so overwhelmingly over-turned in the next few decades. Before long, the explanation of the causesand appropriate treatment for transgenderism had been eff ectively taken overby the patients themselves to suit their interests, and criticism of their schemahad come to be seen as unacceptable hate speech.Paul McHugh, another psychiatrist opposed to sex reassignment, wasresponsible for putting an end to sex-change operations at Johns HopkinsUniversity in 1979. He explained his reasoning in an article in 1992 enti-tled ‘Psychiatric Misadventures’, one of which was accepting that thosewith troubles about ‘gender’ should have hormonal and surgical treatment(McHugh, 1992 ). He said he saw men who felt they were in the ‘wrongbody’, ‘not uncommonly’. He recommended that the patient’s claim that hisfeeling is lifelong should be checked by speaking with those who knew himas a child, because it might not be accurate. Another problem was, he argued,that the ‘feeling like a woman’ was often based simply on sex stereotypes,‘something that woman physicians note immediately is a male caricature ofwomen’s attitudes and interests’(McHugh, 1992 ; 502). He expressed his frus-tration by comparing the recommendation of surgery for transgenders withinterventions such as liposuction for those suff ering the delusion that they areobese. ‘We don’t do liposuction on anorexics. Why amputate the genitals ofthese poor men?’ (McHugh, 1992 : 503). He also compared it with lobotomy,‘the most radical therapy ever encouraged by twentieth-century psychiatrists’and said that neither treatment resulted from ‘critical reasoning or thought-ful assessments’ (ibid.). He reiterated his opposition in 2004 saying, ‘I havewitnessed a great deal of damage from sex-reassignment … We have wastedscientifi c and technical resources and damaged our professional credibilityby collaborating with madness rather than trying to study, cure, and ultim-ately prevent it’ (McHugh, 2004 : 38). This kind of forthright opposition israrely voiced in the twenty-century, when transgenderism has become,as McHugh describes it, ‘fashionable’ (McHugh, 1992 ).Transgenderism and cross-dressingApart from unhappy homosexuals such as Christine Jorgenson, the othermajor category of demanders derives from male, ostensibly heterosexual,cross-dressers. Although cross-dressing is a fairly common pursuit of het-erosexual men, most do not seek to change their sex but dress at home,occasionally venturing out in public ‘dressed’; or in some cases, seeking to livefull-time as women but eschewing surgery or hormones (Woodhouse, 1989 ).It is, however, from this constituency of men that the term ‘transgender’ arose,and although there is much fuss about the boundary between cross-dressersand those who choose to transition, the diff erence seems neither clear norfi xed. The historian of sexuality, Vern Bullough, like many other researchers oftransgenderism, considers that there is little diff erence between cross-dressingand transsexualism; some cross-dressers simply go further than others and endup either living permanently as a woman, or elect to have surgery (Bullough, ). A social movement of male cross-dressers developed in the 1960s ands, which formed another conduit in the construction of transgenderism.The movement was spearheaded by Virginia Prince, to whom the use ofthe term ‘transgender’ is attributed. Prince created the journal Transvestia , formen interested in cross-dressing as women, in 1960. Vern L. Bullough saysthat the term was ‘used by Virginia Prince to describe those individualswho, like her, elected to change “gender” and not “sex”’ (Bullough, 2006 ).The pool of interested men, cross-dressers, from whom the increasingnumbers of those seeking to change sex are drawn, is quite considerable. Inan article that points out the connections between cross-dressing and trans-genderism, transgender psychologist Anne Lawrence gives fi gures from a sur-vey to indicate the ubiquity of cross-dressing interests in men. This showedthat 2.8 per cent of men reported having experienced sexual arousal in asso-ciation with cross-dressing (Lawrence, 2007 : 507). Other studies, he says,found a rate of 2 or 3 per cent. The interest of publicly heterosexual men incross-dressing in garments more usually associated with women has a longhistorical pedigree. Cross-dressing is understood by sexologists as a sexualinterest of heterosexual men and they are agreed that there is no analo-gous practice for women, heterosexual or lesbian, as women are usually notafflicted by unusual paraphilias (Bailey, 2007 ). Cross-dressing is engaged in bygroups of men for fun, as well as being practised secretly at home. MarjorieGarber, in her examination of this practice in the United States, points outthat it has been commonly engaged in by privileged, upper class men incolleges and universities, which gives an indication of its respectability. Sheexplains that dressing up as women, even to the extent of using prosthesesto imitate female body parts, takes place in all male bastions of the Americanupper class, such as the Tavern Club in Boston and the Bohemian Club inSan Francisco, where, she explains that ‘[f]ar from undercutting the power ofthe ruling elite, male cross-dressing rituals here seem often to serve as con-fi rmation and expressions of it’ (Garber, 1997 : 66).Virginia Prince, who has been described as the ‘pioneer’ of transgender-ism, played an important role in the development of cross-dressing from ahobby into a movement (Ekins, 2005 ). He had a PhD in pharmacy and lived as a woman for part of his life, after two marriages. He did not, however,consider himself a transsexual and did not have sex-change surgery. TheInternational Journal of Transgenderism dedicated an issue to him – at ninety-two years old – in 2005, to celebrate the importance of his work in creat-ing the fi eld. Prince had the classic history of a cross-dresser, which todaywould be likely to lead to a diagnosis of gender identity disorder and makehim a candidate for surgery. He began cross-dressing at the age of twelve,using his mother’s clothes, and as a teenager sometimes ‘dressed’ in public,seeking to pass himself off as a girl. He sought out the advice and supportof psychiatrists about his interest, and in 1960 he published the issue ofhis magazine for cross-dressers, Transvestia , which stated that it was directedto ‘sexually normal’ – that is heterosexual – cross-dressers. He formed atransvestite support group from subscribers to the magazine, Hose and Heels ,in Los Angeles in 1961, to which homosexuals and transsexuals were notadmitted. The group became national and was renamed Foundation for FullPersonality Expression (FPE). It gained subscribers from outside the UnitedStates, and in 1965 a European regional group of FPE called the BeaumontSociety was formed in London. Prince also published transvestite fi ction,some written by himself, and sold aids such as artifi cial breasts. After hissecond marriage ended he began to, as he puts it, ‘personate’ women inpublic, had electrolysis to remove his beard and gained breasts as a result ofhormone treatment, but he retained his penis. Prince became the spokesmanfor the transvestite community and claimed to have coined the terms ‘trans-genderism’ and ‘transgenderist’ to describe men such as himself who ‘havebreasts and live full-time as a woman but who have no intention of havinggenital surgery’ (quoted in Ekins, 2005 : 9). Prince considered the develop-ment of transgender surgery, and its wide dissemination and promotion, tobe problematic because he thought it caused susceptible transvestites to beseduced into taking that route; an insight that was prophetic.In 1978 Prince wrote an article for his journal Transvestia , which pres-ages the ways in which queer and transgender theorists were to write abouttransgenderism twenty years later. He explained the usefulness of the suffix‘trans’, and that a ‘transcendent is a person who climbs over and goes beyondsome sort of limitation or barrier’ (Prince, 2005b , published 1978 : 39).Transgenders, he claimed, have to climb over the barrier of gender, and quotesthe sexologist John Money on the defi nition of gender as ‘[a]ll those thingsthat a person says or does to disclose himself or herself as having the statusof boy or man, girl or woman respectively’ (Prince, 2005b : 40). Interestingly,Prince considers that gender isn’t ‘biological, it’s cultural’ (Prince, 2005b 41),and his understanding of what femininity consists of comes from the cul-ture of the 1950s, ‘a world of silk and satin, of lace, and perfume, of grace,beauty and adornment and, ideally, of virtue’ ( 2005 a, 23). Prince’s work isan indication of a move to understand cross-dressing and transsexualism interms of ‘gender’ that was under way. This culminated in the inclusion in theUS Diagnostic and Statistical Manual , the bible of mental health professionals,of the diagnoses of ‘gender identity disorder’ and ‘gender identity disorder inchildhood’, which form the foundations for treatment of this mental healthproblem by hormones and surgery. Gender identity disorder becomes thenew language for what was previously called ‘transsexualism’ (Zucker andSpitzer, 2005 ). In the new 2013 edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual ,the nomenclature was changed again, and gender identity disorder became‘gender dysphoria’, resulting from the arguments of transgender activists thattheir problems with gender did not constitute a disorder, a term that has con-notations of poor mental health.The move to genderThe construction of the idea of ‘gender’ was necessary in order to justifyand explain sex-change treatment. The taking up of this new idea led to animportant staging post in the history of this practice, when, in the 1990s, theterm ‘transgender’ began to crowd out the term ‘transsexualism’ from com-mon understandings. The move to the language and idea of gender in con-ceptualising cross-dressing and transsexualism began with the sexologists ofthe 1950s and 1960s. During this time, the doctors who off ered transgendertreatments created a notion of gender – which previously had only a gram-matical meaning – as the ideological foundation for their practice. Hausmanexplains that sex-change surgery was predicated upon the notion of gender:‘the idea of an identity prior to and within the body that theoretically shoulddictate the physical appearance of the subject’ (Hausman, 1995 : 70). The ideaof gender was developed by the sexologists, John Money and others, in thes and understood as ‘the social performance indicative of an internalsexed identity’ (Hausman, 1995 : 7). It arose from their work using surgery andhormones in the treatment of intersex children, and was used to determinewhich children should be treated and in what ways. As Hausman observes,there was a heterosexist bias from the beginning in the medical constructionof intersexuality and transsexualism, because the physicians were concernedto construct appropriately gendered persons who would act out in accept-ably heterosexual ways. Through the study of the history of transsexualism,Hausman argues that the ‘production of the concept of gender in Westernculture’ can be analysed (Hausman, 1995 : 11). All of the medical ‘interven-tions’, as Hausman refers to them, depended upon ‘the construction of arhetorical system that posits a prior gendered self necessary to justify surgicalinterventions’ (Hausman, 1995 : 71). She calls the doctors the ‘gender man-agers’, and stresses that opposition to homosexuality fuelled their work and justifi ed the sterilisation that was a component part of the treatment, as theyconsidered that it was ‘more important that the patient is not homosexualthan that the patient is fertile’ (Hausman, 1995 : 74).The development by the sexologists of the idea of gender was to makepossible a considerable linguistic and ideological move for the men who wereseeking to change sex. As an increasing number of sexologists, psychologistsand philosophers of science are now pointing out, the idea of gender ena-bled the demanders to wrap their practice and desires in a new framework,which they then sought to justify as essential or even biologically determined(Bailey, 2007 ; Blanchard, 2005 ; Dreger, 2008; 2011 ; Ekins and King, 2010 ).The idea of gender off ered a way out of the difficult situation in which suchmen would otherwise be seen as sexually motivated by a ‘paraphilia’ to cross-dress or change sex. The association with sexuality created problems for theiraccess to treatment, and to the seriousness with which they were regarded inthe public world. The idea of a ‘gender’ mistake, in which they mysteriouslyincorporated a ‘feminine essence’, washed them clean of sleaze and enabledthem to constitute themselves as a confi dent rights-bearing minority whowere just born diff erent. The move from sex to gender was accomplishedwith the increasing acceptance of a new language – transsexualism becametransgenderism.Cross-dressing and transgenderism as paraphiliasThe biographies of cross-dressers and the descriptions of their excite-ments and interests are very similar to those provided by those who goon to access surgery and hormones. Cross-dressing is rather clearly a sex-ual interest, but spokespersons for cross-dressers, and most of those whogo on to transition, reject the idea that their practice is related to sexualexcitement. Prince specifi cally rejected the notion that cross-dressing wasdriven by a pursuit of sexual satisfaction; rather he said it was based upon‘gender’ and allowed men to express their full personality including their‘love of the feminine’ (Ekins, 2005 : 11). This claim, the sociologist RichardEkins argues, was to gain acceptance from family, friends and society. Thereis an increasingly vocal opposition to the idea that the desire to change sexis based upon gender, rather than being a sexual interest, among some ofthose most involved in theorising transgenderism. This group of profession-als, which includes the psychologist Professor Michael Bailey ( 2003 ), thephilosopher of science Alice Dreger (2008), the transgender psychotherapistAnne Lawrence ( 2004 ), and the sociologists Richard Ekins and Dave King( 2010 ), favour the understanding of transgenderism developed by the sex-ologist Ray Blanchard ( 2005 ). Blanchard argues that there are two types oftranssexual: those who love men and are basically homosexual; and thosewho are sexually attracted to the idea of themselves as women, whom hecalls autogynephiles. Autogynephilia, he says, constitutes ‘a male’s propensityto be attracted to the thought or image of himself as a woman’ (Blanchard, : 235). Critics have responded that these two categories do not accountfor all transsexuals, and that many do not easily fi t the criteria for one orthe other, but the supporters say that the schema of there being two suchtypes is overwhelmingly correct, and fi ts the evidence. They reject the ideathat transsexuals have a biological condition in which their ‘gender’ has beenwrongly allocated: ‘It is unfortunate that the public face of MTF transsexu-alism is so diff erent from reality’ (Bailey and Triea, 2007 : 531). Blanchard,Bailey and their colleagues consider that non-homosexual transsexualism,autogynephilia, is a sexual interest, or paraphilia.The sociologist, Ekins, who has made cross-dressing and transgenderismthe subjects of his research and his life’s work, describes the erotic interestsof what he calls ‘male femalers’. He makes no real distinction between cross-dressers and men who go further in their practice and seek to change sex,and they are all, in his view, male femalers. Ekins explains that, for the malefemaler,the desire, or excitement, is aroused … by his own femaling, and/orthrough the awareness of others of his own erotic femaling … Thefemaler [may experience] intense orgasm following a dressing sequence,while at the other end, the femaler might fi nd himself mildly enjoyingthe sensual feel of his bra strap against his shoulder as he makes theminor movements necessary to eat a meal or drink a cup of coff ee.(Ekins, 1997 : 56)This example usefully demonstrates the diff erence between the cross-dresser’sfantasy of what it is to be a woman and what women actually feel, as there isan absence of accounts by women of feeling sexually aroused by the feel oftheir bra straps. But his characterisation of the practice also off ers an insightinto the importance attached by some men who transgender or cross-dressto appearing in public, to women in toilets, for instance, and seeking a reac-tion from them. Bailey and Triea argue that this is a common aspect of auto-gynephilia, describing it as ‘the erotic fantasy of being admired, in the femalepersona, by another person’ (Bailey and Triea, 2007 : 523). Ray Blanchardexplains that a signal diff erence between autogynephiles and homosexuals –to whom they are often compared – is that homosexuals do not seek a reac-tion from passers-by for their sexual satisfaction, whereas the heterosexualmen who progress from cross-dressing to transgenderism act as if they arein a perpetual ‘movie’ into which other persons, such as wives, are inducted,however unwillingly, to play the part of audience (Cameron, 2013 ). The concept of autogynephilia is useful in explaining how men’s sexualinterest in that which, in their minds, appertains to femininity, can go furtherthan cross-dressing to incorporate inscribing womanhood on their bodies byphysical means. Bailey and Triea explain that ‘one common manifestation ofautogynephilia is fetishistic cross-dressing’, but some may not cross-dress butrather ‘fetishise about being a nude woman by focussing on desired anatom-ical features’, and some ‘experience erotic arousal at the idea of becoming awoman, and this arousal motivates them to become women’ (Bailey and Triea, : 523). They explain that not all autogynephilic males choose to becometranssexuals, and their ‘interests run a gamut from cross-dressing to engagingin stereotypic female activities (e.g. knitting alongside other women) to pos-sessing female breasts and genitals’ (ibid.). There is no ‘obvious’ diff erence,they argue, between those non-homosexual cross-dressers who will go on totransgender and those who will not. Bailey and Triea have no truck with thenotion of a ‘feminine essence’ or innate gender.Though an increasing number of sexologists are saying that cross-dress-ing and autogynephile transsexualism are based on a sexual orientation, orparaphilia, rather than misplaced gender, they seldom venture to explainexactly what the sexual excitement is based upon. Bailey and Triea implythat this sexual interest is a form of masochism, pointing out that ‘[o]fmen who die practising the dangerous masochistic activity of autoeroticasphyxia, approximately 24% are cross-dressed’ (Bailey and Triea, :). I have argued elsewhere that the fact that the excitement is masochis-tic is clear in the pornography of cross-dressers, and in the statements ofcross-dressers themselves (Jeff reys, 2005 ). The excitement that the idea ofbeing a woman, and the excitement that the accoutrements of womanhoodhold when placed upon a man, result from the fact that womanhood rep-resents a subordinate position. When a man is forcibly cross-dressed, or ableto imagine himself as a woman, he experiences the delicious excitement ofbeing unmanned, deprived of the superior status of manhood and demotedto the subordinate status of womanhood. It is an excitement derived fromthe hierarchy of gender, the caste system of male dominance and wom-en’s subordination, and would not be imaginable outside that framework.Women’s clothing is not sought out because it is prettier or more delightful,but because of its symbolic meaning. This understanding of men’s practiceof cross-dressing, and the transsexual impulses that can result, is not likelyto meet with the approval of women, for whom being feminine is an oftenarduous and burdensome aspect of their lowly status rather than a sourceof orgasm. Perhaps for this reason, the feminine essence theory, the ideaof a misplaced ‘gender’, is much more acceptable than the eroticising ofwomen’s subordination by men. Bailey and Triea off er an explanation forthe enthusiasm for the feminine essence theory among many men whotransgender, saying that those who promote this idea may consider theyare more likely to be accepted for treatment if they are not seen as sexu-ally deviant. They may fi nd the idea ‘intrinsically appealing’ even if it is‘implausible’ (Bailey and Triea, 2007 : 528).Blanchard and his supporters argue that there is plentiful evidence ofthe existence of autogynephilia whereas there is none for feminine essence(Blanchard, 2005 ). It lies in the narratives that Blanchard has heard fromhis many patients, and from the fi fty-nine narratives that transgender psy-chotherapist, Anne Lawrence, has collected. Blanchard off ers some examplesfrom Lawrence’s collection to show how autogynephilia manifests itself. Onenarrative describes the author’s sexual excitement at being taken for a woman:‘In the early days I would become aroused whenever anyone, a sales clerk,a casual stranger, would address me as “Ma’am” or perform some courtesysuch as holding a door for me’ (Blanchard, 2005 : 440). Another explains thatboth before and after sex-reassignment surgery (SRS) he liked to pretend tomenstruate: ‘it was and still is sexually exciting for me to have female body“functions.” Before my SRS, I would pretend to menstruate by urinating insanitary pads. I particularly enjoyed wearing the old fashioned belted pad withlong tabs’ (Blanchard, 2005 : 440). Blanchard uses one quote from a narrativeto explain why autogynephiles might seek out sexual encounters with men.While not seeing themselves as homosexual, such incidents may serve to gainrecognition of the womanhood of the transgender: ‘I felt I was confi rmingmy womanhood by being a passive partner … I have never been interestedin sex with a man when I was presenting as a man, myself ’ (Blanchard, 2005 :). The motivations of ostensibly heterosexual men who transgender arefairly well explained by these sexologists as arising from masochism, and thedesire to obfuscate the sexual nature of cross-dressing and transgenderism wasone of the forces constructing transgenderism in the late twentieth century.Importantly, Bailey and Triea argue that the sort of attacks on their repu-tation received by any person who publicly challenges the feminine essenceidea serves to prevent any alternative being voiced. Two prominent propo-nents of the theory, transgender activists Lyn Conway and Andrea James,called the 2003 book, in which Bailey was critical, The Man who would beQueen ,‘Nazi propaganda’ (Bailey and Triea, 2007 : 528). Bailey was subjectedto a campaign of vilifi cation, which included placing photographs of hischildren on a website with insulting captions (Dreger, 2008). He says thatmany untrue accusations were made against him, and these were ‘precisely anattempt to punish the author for writing approvingly about Blanchard’s ideas,and to intimidate others from doing so’ (Bailey and Triea, 2007 : 529). Baileyand Triea argue that advocates for the feminine essence narrative, and againstBlanchard’s theory, are non-homosexual transsexuals who ‘incorrectly denytheir autogynephilia’ (Bailey and Triea, 2007 : 529). These men are supported in their mistaken ideas by many ‘gender physicians’ who may be unwillingto disbelieve or displease their patients, and who are more comfortable withfacilitating sex reassignment for ‘reasons related to gender than eroticism’.Transgenderism and homosexualityAnother force in the construction of transgenderism, according to DavidValentine, is the conservatism of a gay male politics concerned to reject andsideline effeminacy. Whatever the balance of forces that constructed trans-genderism in the late twentieth century, one puzzling element is the lack ofcriticism by male gay scholars, particularly since hatred of homosexuality soclearly played a role, and one group of those who aspire to transgender aremen who love men. As we have seen, the doctors who were involved in con-structing transgenderism, and the demanders themselves, were determinedto avoid any association of cross-gender practices with homosexuality. Theabsence of any critique of transgenderism from within the male gay commu-nity is sufficiently conspicuous as to need explanation, and David Valentineseeks to off er one (Valentine, 2007 ). He argues that the lack of protest by gaymen points to the useful function that transgenderism performs for a newbreed of conservative gay men post gay liberation. These conservative gaymen assert their concordance with normative masculinity and seek to denyand exclude effeminate gay men by casting them into the category of ‘trans-gender’. This ploy protected the normality of the gay man and helped in hiscampaign to be accepted legislatively and socially as just another jock.He argues that effeminacy was separated off from homosexuality andplaced in a special category of its own as a result of a range of impulses, oneof which was the normalisation of male homosexuality by those he calls‘accommodationist’ activists after gay liberation. At the time of gay liber-ation there was a radical critique of what were called ‘sex roles’ emanatingfrom the infl uence of the feminist movement that was contemporaneous.At the height of the gay liberation movement there was a rejection of bothmasculine and feminine role playing, as symptoms of a harmful patriarchalsystem that oppressed homosexuals (Jeff reys, 2003 ). Gay male theorists arguedthat gay men should not be sissies or butches because these roles were animitation of that which they identifi ed as the oppressive rules of patriarchy.The behaviours of masculinity and femininity in general were understood asbackward, and they should, it was argued, be jettisoned.Gay liberationists and feminists in the 1970s provided explanations asto why male homosexuality was associated with femininity and lesbianismwith masculinity not only in medicine, but also by homosexuals themselves.They argued that in male-supremacist societies, heterosexuality was enforcedthrough the excoriation of same-sex sexual behaviour. Masculinity was, andis, so strongly correlated with male, aggressive penis-in-vagina sex, that devi-ation from this norm, to the extent of engaging sexually with the same sex,was seen as unmanly and therefore a representation of femininity. In the sameway, women who made love to women were seen as unwomanly because thiswas a masculine role and lesbians were seen as embodying a form of masculin-ity. These messages were sufficiently strong enough to infl uence the way thatthose who loved the same sex thought about themselves. There is a wealth ofmaterial to suggest that these messages were thoroughly imbibed (Gottschalkand Newton, 2003 ). In 1950s lesbian culture, for instance, lesbians were likelyto adopt male names, bind their breasts to hide them, and even evince theirdesire for penises (Jeff reys, 1989 ). But there is no suggestion that these womensaw themselves as ‘really’ being men; rather, they wished to enact a male roletowards those they loved.As the radical edge of gay liberation was worn down, and a much more con-servative era of neo-liberal consumerism dawned in the 1980s, this political cri-tique of ‘sex roles’ was abandoned. In its place there developed among gay mena cult of masculinity, in which effeminacy was eschewed and a new camped-upextreme masculinity was adopted and venerated, represented in sadomasochism,in cowboys and construction workers and all the types of the gay pop groupVillage People. Gay sociologist, Martin Levine, is one of the male gay writersto have criticised this burgeoning masculinity – he called this the ‘butch shift’(Levine, 1998 ). This shift is understandable as a reaction against the associationof homosexuality with effeminacy and representative of a new self-confi dence,but it created problems for gay men’s health and lives through the promotionof a masculinist and aggressive sexual culture involving large numbers of sexualpartners and harmful practices such as fi stfucking and anal sex without condoms(Jeff reys, 2003 ). Feminist critics have argued that male gay masculinity was anobstacle in the way of the need to abolish ‘gender roles’, create an egalitariansexuality, and challenge pornography and the sex industry.Valentine explains that as a result of all this, transgenderism was ‘institu-tionalised’ in the 1990s ‘in a vast range of contexts, from grassroots activ-ism, social service provision, and individual identifi cation, to journalisticaccounts’ such that ‘transgender identifi cation’ was understood ‘to be expli-citly and fundamentally diff erent in origin and being from homosexualidentifi cation’ (Valentine, 2007 : 4). The patriarchal state invested heavily inthe concept with funding to social service agencies and centres designedto cater to the ‘transgender’ community. The concept was developed in theacademy, with transgender studies and transgender publishing. Despite thesedevelopments, Valentine argues that when he did his research in the lates in New York, he found, much to his surprise, that there was no trans-gender community. He carried out his research while employed as a safesex educator for the transgender community and found that the majority of those to whom he was directed for outreach work either did not knowthe term transgender or did not relate to it. Even those who lived full-timein clothing usually associated with women, and those who had had surgeryto remove parts of their bodies saw themselves as gay men. Valentine argues,persuasively, that most of the varieties of behaviour now commonly placedby scholars and social workers under a transgender umbrella, such as dragartists, feminine gay men and butch lesbians, have historically, and in thepresent, been understood by themselves and others as ‘gay’. How, he asks,did the category ‘transgender’ get created and what are the implicationsof its construction? ‘What is the reason for the incredibly rapid dissemin-ation of “transgender” in the United States since the early 1990s which hascemented the distinction between gender variance and sexual orientation?’(Valentine, 2007 : 6). The sidelining of effeminate gay men, he argues, is aresult of the separation of ‘gender’ and ‘sexuality’ that has taken place in theacademy and in gay communities and has ‘eff ectively required the birth of anew category – transgender – for those who are not identifi ed primarily interms of “sexuality”’ (Valentine, 2007 : 236). Another element in the creationof the idea of ‘gender identity’ as separate from sexuality is that ‘gender’ isconceptualised as a form of ‘social diff erence’ rather than, from a feministperspective, ‘a site of power relations’ (ibid.).TransableismAnother force in the construction of transgenderism is the way in whichthe development of the Internet has enabled groups of mainly men to createonline communities around their sexual proclivities. This happened in relationto cross-dressing and transgenderism, but also in relation to another practicethat has some close connections with transgenderism – ‘transableism’. Theexample of transableism shows how an ‘identity’ can be built online, but alsoshows the problems of this kind of identity politics, in which categories ofpersons who suff er disadvantage – in this case persons with disabilities – canbe the subject of appropriation and imitation for sexual excitement using thejustifi cation that an identity, however peculiar, should be respected. In thispractice, which was originally labelled ‘apotemnophilia’ (Money et al ., 1977 ),now more usually called Body Integrity Identity Disorder (BIID), aspirantsseek amputation of one or more limbs (First, 2004 ; First and Fisher, 2012 ).The aspirants have been busy online creating identities and campaigning foramputation by medical professionals (Davis, 2011 ). They have their own ter-minology for their interest, transableism, which references transgenderism, inorder to make themselves look more respectable. These transableists includeboth those who seek satisfaction from amputation and those who seek disabil-ity in other forms, such as paraplegia, deafness or blindness. In recent writingsby sexological experts, gender identity disorder and BIID are seen as funda-mentally similar, particularly in relation to the sexual satisfactions involved.Michael First, for instance, editor of the US Diagnostic and Statistical Manual ,who has been advocating for BIID to be added to the Diagnostic and StatisticalManual so that those seeking amputation can access treatment, argues thattransableists in general should be placed in the manual under a heading ofidentity disorder that includes only two categories, gender identity disorderand BIID (First and Fisher, 2012 ). First explains that, because of the similar-ities, he uses the diagnostic criteria for gender identity disorder as the modelfor the twelve criteria he off ers for a diagnosis of BIID. Voluntary limb ampu-tation has achieved a surprising degree of normalisation through Internetnetworking and campaigning, and this off ers insights into the way in whichtransgenderism has fl ourished as a practice and a movement.The critical scholarship on transgenderism has scarcely begun, and this bookseeks to encourage its development. The theme this chapter has explored, ofhow the concept came to exist, is an important place to begin. Much morecritical research on the construction of transgenderism is needed, but thiswork cannot take place while this practice is seen as an essential phenom-enon that is beyond question. The assertion that an essence of gender is theexplanation for transgenderism prevents any exploration of the history andconstruction of this practice. Such investigative scholarship is represented as‘transphobic’ and met with resistance. The idea that ‘gender’ is quite separatefrom ‘sexuality’ and has a logic and essence of its own is commonly stated inqueer and transgender theory, and this eff ectively prevents the history of theentanglement of hatred of homosexuality in the construction of transgender-ism from being voiced or analysed. The lessons that critical lesbian and gay,and feminist scholarship contribute to the understanding of transgenderismare that its construction serves the political agenda of shoring up hetero-sexuality and maintaining a correctly gendered citizenry. Janice Raymondexpressed this succinctly in The Transsexual Empire . ‘What we have here is avery sophisticated form of behavior control and modifi cation, on both theindividual and the social level’ (Raymond, 1979 : 131).Another force in the construction of transgenderism was queer theory inthe academy, which destabilised academic feminism and led to claims thatthere was really no such thing as a ‘woman’, so, of course, men who trans-gender could be women too. The weakening of feminist theory by the adventof queer politics undermined the criticism of transgenderism by those per-sons most aff ected by the phenomenon – women and feminists. The impactof queer politics will be considered in the next chapter.TRANSGENDERISMAND FEMINISMTransgender theory and practice contradict the very basis of feminism,since feminism is a political movement based on the experience of personswho are women, born female and raised in the female sex caste. In the lastdecade there has been a considerable campaign, mainly by some men whoconsider themselves transgender, to establish that they are feminists, andthat their practice is not only compatible with feminism, but exemplary ofits proper aims. This campaign has had some success in being accepted byparts of the feminist movement and academic feminism, because it reso-nates with the queer and poststructuralist theory that has overwhelmedfeminist understandings of ‘gender’. This acceptance made the idea thatmen can be both women and lesbians, and that some women who trans-gender who were previously lesbians are really ‘men’, seem reasonable.This chapter will examine the way that feminists have theorised trans-genderism, the impact of queer theory, and the development of trans-gender theory and transgender feminism. It will consider, also, the way inwhich transgender activism has sought to silence the feminists who chal-lenge transgenderism.At the height of second wave feminism in the 1970s, transgenderism wasa much less common practice. Nonetheless, there was a quite general polit-ical rejection of the practice by feminists on the grounds that transgenderism,called transsexualism at that time, replicated the sex role stereotypes, nowcalled ‘gender’, that were seen as the building blocks of the subordination ofwomen (Morgan, 1978 ; Raymond, 1994 ).Such ‘stereotyped roles’ are, according to feminist critics of the practice,the very foundation and sine qua non of transgenderism. The transgender-ism that feminists did come in contact with in the 1970s consisted of a fewindividual males seeking to ‘personate’ women, as the infl uential theorist ofcross-dressing in the 1960s and 1970s, Virginia Prince ( 2005 b), called hispractice. Before the 1990s, the organised transgender activist movement thatwas facilitated by the Internet did not exist. At that time, the phenomenon ofwomen seeking to ‘personate’ men was much less common, and not visiblein lesbian communities.Forty years ago radical feminist thinkers and activists were very clear intheir view that persons who were born biologically male and raised as males,but sought recognition as women in the women’s liberation movement, wereengaged in a form of colonialism and should be ejected. Males were under-stood to be members of the oppressive sex caste that benefi ted from women’ssubordination. Robin Morgan explained this clearly in her speech to theWest Coast Lesbian Conference in Los Angeles in 1973 (Morgan, 1978 ). Shechanged her speech to include the issue of transgenderism in response tothe problematic presence of a cross-dressing man, whose attendance causedgrievous damage to the conference:[A]ll hell broke loose that very night, caused by the gate-crash-ing presence of a male transvestite who insisted that he was (1) aninvited participant, (2) really a woman, and (3) at heart a lesbian. (It is,one must grant, an ingenious new male approach for trying to seducewomen.) The conference promptly split over the man. More than halfthe women there Friday evening demanded he be forced to leave anall-woman conference; others … defended him as their ‘sister’. Somewomen left the conference for good.(Morgan, 1978 : 171)Feminists at the time objected to what she calls ‘the obscenity of male trans-vestism’ because they saw it as an insulting practice in which men caricaturedstereotypes of women for their own amusement or pleasure. They comparedit to other ways in which members of dominant groups mocked those theyconsidered their inferiors, as happened in the black and white minstrel showsof the period when white men performed in blackface. As Morgan put it, ‘ Weknow what’s at work when whites wear blackface; the same thing is at work when menwear drag’ (Morgan, 1978 : 180) (italics in the original).Morgan says that the transvestites, as she called them, were ‘men whodeliberately reemphasize gender roles, and who parody female oppressionand suff ering’ and is fi rm about rejecting their entryism:No, I will not call a male ‘she’; thirty-two years of suff ering in this andro-centric society, and of surviving, have earned me the title ‘woman’; onewalk down the street by a male transvestite, fi ve minutes of his beinghassled (which he may enjoy), and then he dares, he dares to think heunderstands our pain? No, in our mothers’ names and in our own, wemust not call him sister.(Morgan, 1978 , 180) (emphasis in original) The particular ‘transvestite’ at the 1973 conference had a history of demand-ing entry to women’s spaces despite the destruction and division that thisclearly caused. He had already, she explained, ‘four years ago tried to pres-sure a San Francisco lesbian into letting him rape her’ and had done greatdamage to the lesbian group Daughters of Bilitis by his entryism into thatorganisation. He had threatened the conference organisers with legal actionif they sought to exclude him; ‘when personally begged by women notto attend this conference, [he] replied that if he were kept out he wouldbring federal suit against the women on the charges of “discrimination andcriminal conspiracy to discriminate”’ (ibid.). Morgan accuses the trans-vestite of narcissism, of wanting to be the centre of attention and to usethe conference to ‘boost his opportunistic career’ (ibid.). ‘Transvestites’, sheargued, should form their own organisations and pursue their own interestsrather than trying to barge into women’s activism and spaces. They should‘band together and organize against that oppression, instead of leechingoff women who have spent their entire lives as women in women’s bodies’(Morgan, 1978 : 181).In the UK, the feminist response to transsexuals seeking to enter thewomen’s movement was similar. In a 1979 paper for the Leeds Radical/Revolutionary Feminist conference, Lal Coveney explained why transsexualswere not women:It needs to be stated loud and clear that being a woman is a long-termexperience, and one that isn’t summed up by a collection of femalegenitalia with some clothes draped over them. It takes years of constantpressure and lots of practice to achieve the accepted standards of fem-ininity – we learnt the tricks (in order to survive) so presumably mencan too. But the state of mind, the process of becoming – we didn’thave any choice about that.(Coveney, 1979 )The paper ends, ‘operations don’t change the lining of your head’. In theLondon Women’s Liberation Newsletter for 1979, the sentiments towards theentryism of transsexuals were overwhelmingly in the negative for all thesereasons.The only full book-length feminist critique of the practice of transgender-ism in this period was Janice G. Raymond’s The Transsexual Empire ( 1994 ,published 1979). Raymond, a radical feminist theorist and professor ofthe Philosophy of Science, provided an incisive, feminist, political analysis ofthe problem: ‘My main conclusion is that transsexualism is basically a socialproblem whose cause cannot be explained except in relation to the sex rolesand identities that a patriarchal society generates’ (Raymond, 1994 : 79). Sheargued that transsexualism was a product of medicine as an industry, ratherthan a transhistorical and essential aspect of humanness, or a fl aw in biologicaldevelopment that needs to be repaired by the kindly attentions of surgeons.Her work was a development of the sociological critique of medicine, whichowes its origin to the work of Talcott Parsons ( 1951 ). Parsons argued thatmedicine was a social institution that regulated social deviance through theprovision of medical diagnoses for nonconforming behaviour. Medicine was,in this understanding, engaged in social control. Another form of argumentin this approach was the Marxist one of seeing medicine as a source andmechanism for extracting profi ts in capitalism and part of the medical-indus-trial complex (Riska, 2003 ). Both of these approaches have been employedby transcritical feminists in their critique of transgenderism.These ideas lay behind the anti-psychiatry movement of the 1960s ands, which focused on challenging the proliferation of psychiatric diag-noses and drug therapies to control forms of behaviour that should, theyconsidered, be seen as politically and socially constructed rather than mad.In this view, the problematic behaviours should be seen either as social pro-test, or as the products of the inequalities and injustices of a classist, racist andsexist capitalist status quo (Illich, 1975 ; Szasz, 1960 ). It was not just radicalfeminist theorists like Raymond who were critical of transgenderism in thes and 1980s. Social constructionist sociologists were too. Dwight Billingsand Thomas Urban carried out research in this more critical period, usingobservation and interviews in a ‘gender’ clinic (Billings and Urban, 1982 ). Ascritical sociologists of the time, they engaged in a thoroughgoing critique ofthe medical practice of transgenderism. They argued that physicians createdand promoted sex-change surgery, which would heal ‘neither the body northe mind, but perform a moral function instead’ and that the surgery ‘priva-tizes and depoliticizes individual experience of gender-role distress’, whichis a symptom of social change and challenge to the political construction ofgender roles (Billings and Urban, 1982 : 266). They conclude, powerfully, that‘[b]y substituting medical terminology for political discourse, the medicalprofession has indirectly tamed and transformed a potential wildcat strike atthe gender factory’ (Billings and Urban, 1982 : 282).Feminist critiques of medicine and psychiatry developed these radical pol-itical ideas, but their work in relation to transgenderism, which would haveseemed unremarkable at the time among those who saw themselves as pro-gressive thinkers about medicine, is excoriated today by transgender activistsas ‘hate’ speech and vilifi cation, and results in campaigns of defamation andharassment against any women who are critical (Jeff reys, 2012a ). The feministswho were critical of the practice of transgenderism in the 1970s tended to besome of the biggest names in radical feminist theory of the time, whose ana-lyses of sexual politics provided the foundations of feminist theory in general, such as Mary Daly, Janice Raymond, Robin Morgan. They are subjectedto strong critiques in the literature of transgender activists today (Serano, ; Stryker, 2008 ). The burgeoning fi eld of transgender studies and the‘transgender feminism’, which is now increasingly taught in women’s studiesprogrammes, pays considerable attention to debunking the arguments andactions of these most infl uential second wave feminist theorists in relationto the practice. The project of transgender activists is to replace this radicalfeminist theory, which seeks the abolition of sex role stereotypes, now calledgender, with a version of ‘feminism’ more compatible with their interests.The feminist critique of transgenderism was sidelined, in common with allforms of radical feminist theory and practice during the 1990s, when queertheory swept aside feminism and lesbian feminism and formed a sure founda-tion for the burgeoning of transgender ideology and practice. To understandhow the feminist critique of transgenderism was replaced by a politics thatprovides support for the practice, it is necessary to examine the developmentand ideas of queer theory, particularly in relation to gender.‘Gender’ in feminist theoryQueer theory and politics inherited the term ‘gender’ from its usage by fem-inist theorists. The term ‘gender’ was not widely adopted by feminist theo-rists until the late 1970s or early 1980s (Haig, 2004 ). In David Haig’s usefulstudy of the adoption of the term through analysis of titles in feminist writ-ings in journals and books, he shows that those feminists who used it in thes clearly identifi ed its origins in the work of sexologists such as JohnMoney and Robert Stoller. Sexologists developed this term – from a usagethat was purely grammatical, referring to the gender of words – to apply tosex-appropriate behaviour, and used it to facilitate their attempts to placeintersex children in categories they considered suitable. It does not originatein feminism, but was adopted by feminists for its usefulness in delineatingthe process of social construction of women’s subordinate role. Feministtheorists developed the usage of the term to describe the whole system inwhich women were subordinated, as in the expression ‘gender hierarchy’.Unfortunately, the feminist usage has been buried in waves of confusionand obfuscation and in non-feminist contexts there is a confl ation of ‘sex’and ‘gender’ in everything from college application forms to the ideologyof transgenderism. As Haig comments, ‘gender has come to be adopted asa simple synonym, perhaps a euphemism, for sex by many writers who areunfamiliar with the term’s recent history’ (Haig, 2004 : 95). The term hasbecome so politically ambiguous that it is likely a new language will have tobe created by feminists as they seek to dismantle the mess that its usage hascreated. One aspect of that mess is the way in which queer theory was ableto deploy the term ‘gender’ so that a very conservative form of behaviour,male, heterosexual cross-dressing, came to appear transgressive.The queer assault on feminismThe term ‘queer’ was adopted to describe a type of politics that developed inthe early 1990s out of AIDS activism. Male gay activists who came out ontothe streets to protest the wave of anti-gay hatred that accompanied the AIDSepidemic used the term ‘queer’ to diff erentiate themselves from what theysaw as an older generation of men who used the term ‘gay’ and who wereaccommodationist and not sufficiently confrontational for the moment ofemergency that the new activists saw themselves to be confronting (Jeff reys, ). The term queer did not emerge from lesbian feminist politics and wasin clear opposition to them from the beginning. The new term was a bigstep back for lesbians and feminists, as it had taken two decades of struggleto reach the point where there was a recognition that lesbians needed to beseparately acknowledged in the titles of conferences, books and campaigns.Generic terms such as ‘homosexual’ and ‘gay’ disappeared lesbians under maleinterests and concerns, and the male imaginary. The lesbian feminist move-ment in the 1970s showed that lesbians had quite separate and in many wayscontradictory interests from those of gay men. Lesbian feminists developed aprofound critique of gay male politics and gay male ambitions, as is clear inMarilyn Frye’s work in The Politics of Reality ( 1983 ) and my Unpacking QueerPolitics (Jeff reys, 2003 ). It became clear from the beginning that the new gen-eric term would cancel out the hard-won visibility of lesbians within thesepolitics, and that is what came to pass.Lesbian feminist critics challenged the content of queer politics in a numberof ways. They said that queer politics constituted a return to a male-dominatedsexual freedom agenda that feminism and lesbian feminism in the 1970s ands had sought to overturn (Jeff reys, 2003 ). They argued that queer theoryarose out of a conservative time in the 1990s when the radical politics of les-bian feminism and gay liberation were being disavowed as unrealistic. Theseradical politics had challenged the existence of gender as a system of power,challenged marriage and heterosexuality as political institutions, and arguedthat homosexuality was not biological and could be a matter of political choice.These ideas were too radical for the 1990s, which were not daring times polit-ically. In that much less revolutionary decade, individual bodies were challengedrather than the body politic, such that body modifi cation, branding, cuttingand tattooing came to be seen as progressive practices (Jeff reys, 2000 ). Queerpolitics coincided with the marketisation of many areas of life, including sex,and the queer consumer was born. More and more sex industry practices wereincorporated into lesbian and gay social life, such as drag shows and strip shows. Moreover, it was argued that doing unusual things to and with your genitals,including cutting them off as in transgenderism, was revolutionary (Jeff reys, ; 2008a ). Even the cutting off of other body parts, or placing objects underthe skin, and brutal forms of branding in diff erent forms of ‘body modifi cation’were somehow given queer credentials (Pitts, 2001 ; Sullivan, 2001 ). Attacksupon the bodies of deeply troubled lesbians and gay men by themselves, bycommercial cutters or by surgeons, were represented as ‘transgressive’ ratherthan destructive (Jeff reys, 2008b ).The most important aspect of queer theory for the development of atransgender movement, however, was its theorising of gender. While feministshad sought to use gender in ways that suited their revolutionary purposesand aimed to demolish gender diff erences, the queer approach was much lessradical, and paved the way for transgenderism to be seen as an emblematicpractice of queer politics. Queer theory developed as a subset of postmod-ern theory, and was devoted from its outset to a form of deconstruction-ism that disappeared the category ‘woman’ itself (Brodrib, 1992 ). Without‘women’ feminism cannot exist, since feminism is a political movement forthe liberation of a specifi c category of oppressed persons, and the disappear-ance of women renders feminism superfl uous. ‘Woman’ was not a concern ofqueer politics, and ‘gender’ displaced any consideration of the fl eshly realityof woman’s existence. Queer theory created a gender politics which reducedgender to a form of personal expression or performance, and obscured thematerial power relations of male domination (Butler, 1990 ). The aim of queergender politics was to make gender fl exible and create more ‘genders’. Inthese ways queer theory was in direct opposition to feminist politics andenabled the development of transgenderism as a practice and ideology.Radical feminist theorists do not seek to make gender a bit more fl ex-ible, but to eliminate it. They are gender abolitionists, and understand genderto provide the framework and rationale for male dominance. In the radicalfeminist approach, masculinity is the behaviour of the male ruling class andfemininity is the behaviour of the subordinate class of women. Thus gen-der can have no place in the egalitarian future that feminism aims to create(Delphy, 1993 ). In the predominant queer theory approach, however, genderis something that can be ‘played with’. In this queer interpretation, genderis ‘transgressive’ when adopted by persons of one biological sex who wouldnormally be expected to display diff erent characteristics. There is, however,no way out of gender; it can be swapped but in this formulation it cannotbe abolished. In this respect queer theory suited the socially conservativetimes of the 1990s when the idea of social transformation was forgotten andvarious forms of cavorting in line with the system were relabelled as fun andrebellious. Queer theory on gender, rather than being progressive, shouldperhaps be seen as coquettish, fl irting with male domination and reproducingits contortions. It locks lesbians and gay men into precisely the old time sexrole stereotypes that more progressive movements – gay liberation and lesbianfeminism – sought to demolish.Queer theory adopted the term ‘transgender’ to cover those engagingin ‘transgressive’ performances of gender. This included lesbian and gay roleplayers alongside transvestites, drag queens and kings, and both old-fashionedtranssexuals, mired in biology, and those who reject biological explanationsfor their transitioning. As Holly (now Aaron) Devor puts it, ‘Under the rubricof queer sexuality, we have seen postmodern sensibilities come to the foreas more and more people come forward to claim their right to be whatevertheir hearts and groins tell them to be’ (Devor, 2002 : 16). In this respect,queer sexuality is about whatever turns you on, with no interest in the socialconstruction and political implications of individual desires and practices.Queer theory’s politics of identity represents a fi erce individualism. Devorexplains that the queer/transgender community is composed of ‘transsexuallesbians, of tranny fags and the men who love them, of lesbians and gay menwho enjoy sex together, and of dyke daddies who live out their fantasies asSM gay men’ (ibid.). The transgender activist and academic, Susan Stryker,explains that transgender became ‘articulated’ with queer in the form of ‘animagined political alliance of all possible forms of gender antinormativity’(Stryker, 2008 : 146).Queer theory and politics became involved in a gender rescue missionagainst the radical feminist campaign to abolish it. This may be because, formost women and men under male dominance, sexual desire is constructedprecisely from eroticising the power diff erence between the sexes that isembodied in gender. Equality is unsexy and the very idea of dismantling gen-der is, therefore, as Catharine MacKinnon explains, ‘detumescent’ (Jeff reys, ; MacKinnon, 1989 ). This has been a particular problem for those lesbi-ans and gay men who are unable to challenge the gendered nature of theirown experience of sexual desire. Same sex attraction does not immediatelyoff er the eroticised inequality of heterosexuality, and those who need thisform of sexual stimulation have to recreate the power diff erence of ‘gender’through role playing. To this purpose, gender was embraced as a ‘sex toy’by signifi cant queer theorists and activists such as Pat Califi a (now Patrick)( 1994 ), and Judith (Jack) Halberstam (Halberstam, 1998 ), who pronouncedthat role playing masculinity and femininity was precisely what put the piz-zazz into lesbian sex and should be celebrated. Role playing, it became clear,off ered the sexual satisfactions of a mild form of sadomasochism (Jeff reys, ).The eminent queer theorist, Judith Butler, whose work is most usuallycited as arguing that gender is a ‘performance’, takes a similar approach,explaining that she is someone whose sexual desire is constructed out of gender diff erence. In an interview she says that she ‘situated’ herself ‘in rela-tion to butchness’ in her early twenties, and has had ‘an active and complicatedrelationship with both butch-femme discourse and S/M discourse probablyfor almost 20 years’ (More, 1999 : 286). In Undoing Gender she explains that‘[t]here may be women who love women’ who cannot do this ‘through thecategory women’ and that ‘they/we’ are ‘deeply … attracted to the femin-ine’ (Butler, 2004 : 197). She asks, ‘why shy away from the fact that there maybe ways that masculinity emerges in women?’ (ibid.). Butler’s enthusiasmfor gender causes her to embrace transsexual surgery as a human right eventhough this practice is not playful or fl exible and goes way beyond perform-ance, since amputated penises cannot be reattached. She goes so far as topromote the right to transsexual surgery as a matter of justice and says thatshe agrees with the transgender activist argument that transsexuality ‘shouldbe a matter of choice, an exercise of freedom’, so that restrictions on surgerylead to ‘a basic human freedom’ being ‘suppressed’ (Butler, 2004 : 88). She alsostates that the aspirations of transgenders are about ‘the ability to live andbreathe and move and would no doubt belong somewhere in what is calleda philosophy of freedom’ (ibid.). In this way she seeks to tie the transgenderproject into a vision of progressive social change.The clear diff erence between this queer approach and that of radical fem-inism is demonstrated in the work of the radical feminist law professor andfeminist theorist, Catharine MacKinnon, who does not accept that genderswapping makes gender somehow harmless. Of the sexualising of dominanceand submission, which makes the ‘target or object’ of sexuality ‘subordinate’and ‘usually a female’, she writes, ‘hierarchy is always done through genderin some way; even if it is playing with gender or reversing gender or same-gendering, it is still using gender for sex. Gender hierarchy is either beingplayed with or played out’ (MacKinnon, 2006: 273). For feminists who rec-ognise gender as a hierarchy, playing with it cannot form part of a futurethat is friendly to women’s interests, because women’s freedom requires theabolition of gender.‘Gender’ in transgender theoryThe most dangerous legacy of queer theory and politics for feminism is theway in which it paved the way for the politics of transgenderism, by creat-ing the notion that transposing gender is somehow revolutionary. Althoughqueer theory is social constructionist, and posits that transgenderism showsthe mutability of gender rather than the reverse, it has been enlisted to jus-tify a transgenderism that is essentialist and, for many of its adherents, seenas based in biology. In the academy, where queer theory has become theorthodox way to understand gender in women’s studies and lesbian and gaystudies, there is no critique of even the most biologistic versions of trans-genderism. Transgenderism has been able to exploit the way in which queertheory has removed ‘gender’ from its basis in the subordination of womenand made it into an aspect of consumerism, something to be assumed andplayed with, and inscribed on the body, something that can be bought andpaid for through hormones and surgery.Out of queer theory, the new discipline of transgender studies emerged,which is taking up the space once occupied by lesbian and gay studies orwomen’s studies and is the new sexy kid on the block. In transgender studies,gender doesn’t look very playful at all and is in fact represented as compul-sory, something that everyone has to have. Conscientious objection, that isthe conscious and political rejection of gender, is not possible. Thus RikkiWilchins, the spokesperson of the campaigning transgender organisationGenderPAC, argues, from his position as a man who has transgendered, thatthough feminists have problems accepting transgenderism as progressive theyshould do so because they all need ‘gender’, ‘Because, right now, the women’scommunity is not totally on speaking terms with the drag and transgendercommunity … They don’t yet realize that they all have a common stakein gender’ (Drescher, 2002 : 72). Wilchins opines that lesbians and gay menshould be supportive and inclusive towards transgenders because ‘[g]ay peoplehave always been about gender. That’s how your mother “just knew” some-one was gay’ (Drescher, 2002 : 73). Psychotherapist David Seil, who workswith persons who aspire to transgender, argues that lesbians and gay men are‘on a continuum with transgendered people … We all are on that continuum,including heterosexual men and women’ (Seil, : 33). Female-bodiedtransgender Jamison Green argues similarly, saying that it is not possible toquestion the need for gender since it is the necessary basis of human inter-action: ‘Everyone uses gender to communicate’ (Green, 1999 : 126). Clearly,within these understandings, there is no way out of gender, and lesbian andgay conscientious objectors are seen as charlatans, failing to recognise theways in which they too are inevitably and fundamentally gendered.Genderqueers replace lesbiansThe queer understanding of ‘gender’ has had a profound infl uence on les-bian communities, with young women in some parts of American queerculture, who would once have understood themselves to be both lesbiansand women, now identifying as ‘genderqueer’. It is from this milieu thatthe strongly developing trend for lesbians to transgender emerged in thelast decade. The transgendering of lesbians not only fractures communi-ties but disappears lesbians themselves as they reject womanhood, and thisimpoverishes feminism profoundly since lesbian feminist politics was central to second wave feminism (Faderman, 1997 ). Lesbians were crucial to devel-oping the theory, and doing the work of feminism. They were prominentin creating services to support women who suff ered male violence, suchas rape crisis centres and refuges, and in setting up the basic institutionsthat created a women’s culture, bookstores, women’s centres, presses, musicgroups and theatre companies. They provided, too, the ethical core of fem-inist politics on sexuality and relationships (Card, 1991 ; Raymond, 1986 ).Lesbian feminist ethics were based on creating and practising a sexuality ofequality that eschewed the eroticising of power diff erence in the form ofbutch/femme role playing or sadomasochism. Lesbian feminists created ajournal in the United States called Lesbian Ethics and wrote books on ethics(Hoagland, 1988 ). The lesbian core of second wave feminism created theculture and spaces in which all women could relax, strategise, and developstrength. Importantly, the core of lesbian feminism was separatism (Frye, ). Lesbian feminists chose to live separately from men and to socialiseand develop community in spaces that were women-only. The takeover ofwomen’s spaces by queer and transgender politics has led to the erosion ofthe sense of solidarity and community that is so important to the strength ofa feminist movement. The entryism of men who transgender into women’sspaces has helped to fracture lesbian communities, by extirpating the envir-onments that have nurtured women’s resistance and rebellious thinking andtheir ability to love one another.The eff ect of the rise of queer politics, combined with the decline oflesbian feminist politics, was the development of ‘genderqueer’ communi-ties in place of lesbian communities in some areas of the United States inparticular. For lesbian feminism – or indeed feminism – to exist, it is neces-sary for women to be able to think of themselves as women and as lesbians.But this is very hard for many young lesbians in the present, who come outinto a queer community in which only manhood has value. They may haveextremely fragmented identities, which make them unable to accept them-selves as women and lesbians. This is clear in a study in which young womenwho once might have called themselves lesbians were interviewed (Bauer, ). The young women engage in sadomasochism, or BDSM (bond-age, discipline and sadomasochism), and could ‘choose and negotiate rolesand identities for play’ (Bauer, 2008 : 234). They identifi ed in the followingways: ‘white bisexual femme’, ‘white pansexual genderqueer femme’, ‘whitequeer transgendered stone butch’, ‘white queer genderqueer femmeboy’,‘white queer femme’. The study explains ‘genderqueer’ thus:While genderqueers do not identify full time as either men or women,they do not conceive of themselves as in the middle of the spectrum orandrogynous either. Their gender is rather fl uid (shifting) and multipleat the same time, which means that their positioning within a variety ofgenders depends on the context. For example, a person might expressa femme side in an encounter with a butch and express a fag partialidentity with a gay transguy the next day.(Bauer, 2008 : 238)The author defi nes herself as ‘a white German, queer, polyamorous, BDSMtop, and transfag with a working-class and activist background’ (Bauer, 2008 :). The term ‘lesbian’ does not appear in such self-descriptions.Indeed, some lesbian academics argue that the ‘lesbians’ in the lesbiancommunity may cease to exist as a separate category as ‘[m]any young peopleare embracing a more fl uid role in terms of their sexual orientation andgender identity’ (Weiss, 2007 : 208). Their sexuality is described as ‘fl uid’,meaning that ‘[q]ueer-identifi ed young women are likely to have sex withqueer-identifi ed young men, and consider it a queer relationship. Masculinelabels such as “boy” and “daddy” are not considered taboo by women’s com-munities’ (ibid.). This erasure of lesbian existence, to quote Adrienne Rich(Rich, 1980 ), is called a move ‘away from essentialism and towards universal-ism’ in which ‘academics of this new generation’ may not bother to ‘distin-guish clearly a fi eld of “Lesbian” Studies, or any sexuality-based disciplines’(Weiss, 2007 : 209).Genderqueer ‘fl uidity’ may create a problem for these young women asthey seek to situate themselves in the world and attend to their health. Astudy of the problems that lesbians, and especially those who transgender,have in accessing health care suggests that their lack of a secure identitycreates problems in this respect. They have difficulty defi ning themselves;‘Gender-queer-identifi ed and Transmale-identifi ed youth often strugglefor language to describe their own or their transgender peers’ or partners’understandings of themselves’ (Welle et al . 2006 : 46). The study suggests thatit is the gender studies and queer studies programmes taken by these gen-der and transidentifi ed young women that caused them to have such frag-mented and complex notions of who they were, as they ‘had all participatedin critical gender studies and queer studies courses and referenced academicdiscourse to frame LGBT and queer identities’ (Welle et al ., 2006 : 48). Onerespondent, Samantha, says that a ‘fi xed identity is limited and limiting’ andthat ‘fag culture or style’, or possibly some ‘dyked-out version of it’, rep-resents what she does. The young people in the study who were involvedin sadomasochist sexual practice used the language of tops and bottomsfrom gay male culture to describe what they did in sexual role playing. Thearticle concludes that ‘“more complexity” may be accompanied by uniquevulnerabilities’ (Welle et al ., 2006 : 66). Such studies indicate that the clearfeminist critique of what were at called sex roles or sex stereotypes, and only later commonly referred to as ‘gender’, was undermined by the adventof queer and poststructuralist ideas in the 1990s. But they indicate the dis-appearance of lesbians too.Lesbian feminist academic, Bonnie Zimmerman, has evinced concernabout this, suggesting that lesbian feminism barely survives as a recognisedway of being a lesbian today in the United States. She warns that lesbianscould disappear becausein many locations, and many ways the discourses of lesbians – and spe-cifi cally, Lesbian Feminism, have been all but silenced. This leads to theappropriation of our work … the vilifi cation of our values and contin-ued existence, and the misrepresentation and ahistorical constructionof the past thirty years.(Zimmerman, 2008 : 50)The understanding of themselves as women and lesbians that formed thefi rm and necessary foundation of organising by second wave feminists hasdissipated, in a way that creates difficulties for a new wave of activism, butthere is evidence from online radical feminism that a new generation ofyoung lesbians are developing their own form of lesbian feminism for newtimes. However, as transgender activism developed, during the same period inwhich feminism was under attack from queer and postmodern theory, thesenew forms of theory were employed to build the ideology that underpinstransgender studies, and enable an onslaught on varieties of feminism thatthreaten the importance of gender as a grail. It is in this context, in that thevery existence of ‘women’ and ‘lesbians’ has become doubtful, that ‘trans-gender feminism’ has been able to create a place for itself.Transgender ‘feminism’Transgender ‘feminism’ argues that gender diff erence and femininity mustbe protected from the feminists who seek to demolish them. These theoristsmodel ‘femininity’ on their own view, as men who consider themselves trans-gender, of what ‘womanhood’ is, i.e. pleasure in acting out the female sex rolestereotype. Feminist theorists of the second wave saw it as crucially import-ant to wrench the idea of what a woman is away from patriarchal ideologiesand institutions and recreate it in a way suited to women’s liberation. In suchfeminist work, male ideologues were accused of appropriating and colonis-ing women’s experience and existence (Millett, 1972 ). The institutions andideologies that were identifi ed as mediating the subordination of womenare religion and the church, psychoanalysis and the medical profession, theso-called sciences of sociology and anthropology and the institutions of thestate (de Beauvoir, 1973 , published 1949; Wittig, 1992 ). All the discip-lines of universities, as Monique Wittig points out, can be seen to constitutethe ‘straight mind’, that is ideas based on seeing women as complementary tomen within the framework of heterosexuality (Wittig, 1992 ). These theoristshave examined how the idea of woman has been constructed, and pointedout that this idea serves to justify male dominance. Importantly, the idea ofwoman is founded in the notion of an inevitable – and essential, usually bio-logical – diff erence between the sexes. This ‘diff erence’ meant that womanwas to be a helpmeet to man, to pleasure him, live under this control, pro-vide children and a home, and display certain qualities that delighted him,an interest in fashion, display of the body, deference, feminine gestures anddeportment. In the light of this, it should be a matter of some concern thatmen who transgender are retaking the opportunity to state what women areand should be, shape what feminism is and promote similar stereotypes. Onceagain men are exercising their authority in defi ning what women are.The upshot of an atmosphere of acceptance, and indeed welcome, of trans-genderism within the queer and postmodern feminist academy was the bur-geoning of ‘transgender feminism’, whose creators and exponents are mainlymen who transgender and reject entirely the form of feminism that eschewsgender, and, instead, construct feminism as a movement for the celebration ofgender stereotypes. This male-designed feminism has become so prominentwithin the feminist academy that, in 2011, for example, Indiana Universityhosted a conference entitled Postposttranssexual: Transgender Studies andFeminism (CSGS, 2011 ), and in 2012 at the University of California therewas a ‘research cluster’ entitled ‘Queer, Feminist and Transgender Studies’(DHI Research Cluster, n.d.), as if these currents of thought were compat-ible. In 2013 the Department of Women’s Studies and Feminist Research atWestern University in Canada will off er a subject called ‘An to Transgender Studies’. Moreover, men who transgender are increasinglyengaged to lecture to women about feminism as keynote speakers at fem-inist conferences, an example being the 22nd Annual Women and SocietyConference in Poughkeepsie, New York in 2013. At this event the keynotewas given by Kate Bornstein, whose perspective on women and society, asa man who has transgendered, will inevitably be very diff erent from that ofwomen, that is, persons with female bodies who did not choose their subor-dinate status, but were placed into it at birth (Culture Lab, 2013 ).One infl uential exponent of ‘transgender feminism’ is Julia Serano, authorofWhipping Girl :A Transsexual Woman on Sexism and the Scapegoating ofFemininity ( 2007 ). Serano has a classic cross-dresser profi le. He explains thathe did not consider himself to be female until he was eleven years old and didnot want to do girls’ activities at school, though he had a sexual fantasy lifeof being turned into a girl: ‘I did not have the quintessential trans experience of always feeling that I should have been born female’ (Serano, 2007 : 78).He realised he was female when he had the urge to dress in a lace curtainat eleven (an experience unlikely to have been shared by many females): ‘Itwasn’t until the age of eleven that I consciously recognized these subcon-scious feelings as an urge or desire to be female … I found myself inexplic-ably compelled to remove a set of white, lacy curtains from the window andwrap them around my body like a dress’ (Serano, 2007 : 79). This importantforce in the creation of transfeminism decided he was somehow female in thebrain – ‘it seems as if, on some level, my brain expects my body to be female’when he realised he was sexually excited by clothing associated with women,and by curtains (Serano, 2007 : 80).Serano seeks to reinvent ‘feminism’ to fi t his erotic interests. Since he isturned on by the accoutrements of femininity, he is angry that many femi-nists are critical of it. He states that feminists misunderstand femininity, ‘Evenmany feminists buy into traditionally sexist notions about femininity: thatit is artifi cial, contrived, and frivolous; that it is a ruse that only serves thepurpose of attracting and appeasing the desires of men’. It is not true, hesays, ‘that femininity is subordinate to masculinity’, nor that it is ‘artifi cial’ or‘performance’; in fact, ‘certain aspects of femininity (as well as masculinity)are natural and can both precede socialization and supersede biological sex’(Serano, 2007 : 6). The job of feminism, according to Serano, is to ‘empower’femininity, because ‘[n]o form of gender equality can ever truly be achieveduntil we work to empower femininity itself ’ (ibid.). He explains, ‘I makethe case that feminist activism and theory would be best served by workingto empower and embrace femininity, rather than eschewing or deriding it,as it often has in the past’ (Serano, 2007 : 9). He chastises feminists for havingsomehow got everything wrong.Transgender activists such as Serano have developed a new vocabulary toadvance their political agenda. One of these new terms is ‘cis’, which theyapply to all those who are not unhappy with their ‘gender’. In eff ect the term‘cis’ creates two kinds of women, those with female bodies who are labelled‘cisgender’, and those with male bodies who are ‘transwomen’. Women, thoseborn female and raised as women, thus suff er a loss of status as they are rel-egated to being just one kind of woman and their voices will have to com-pete on a level playing fi eld with the other variety, men who transgender. Inthis ideology, everyone has a gender, and those who have a ‘gender’ that fi tstheir ‘biological bodies’ have ‘cisprivilege’, which advantages them over trans-genders who are not comfortable with what Serano calls their ‘birth’ gender.Transgenders, he says, are oppressed by ciswomen, who do not recognise theirprivilege and do not seek to work off their guilt by supporting the demandsand needs of oppressed transgender people who are more oppressed thanwomen. Cispersons, that is women, are often guilty of ‘ Cissexism , which isthe belief that transsexuals’ identifi ed genders are inferior to, or less authenticthan, those of cissexuals (i.e., people who are not transsexual and who haveonly ever experienced their subconscious and physical sexes as being aligned)’(Serano, 2007 : 12) (emphasis in original). Examples of cissexism, apparently,include ‘purposeful misuse of pronouns or insisting that the trans person usea diff erent public restroom’. The concept of cissexism is employed by trans-gender activists to guilt-trip women into silence or support for their cause,and the addition of a prefi x has political eff ects such as precluding feministanalysis of the situation of women. Moreover, transgender activists adjurewomen to refer to themselves as ‘cis’ even when speaking among themselves,free from the presence of men who consider themselves transgender. Thetransgender blogger T-girl, for instance, tells women in a guide how ‘cis-women’ should relate to men who transgender but retain their penises andwish to date them: ‘Please adopt this language, even when trans people arenot around’ (Savannah, 2013 ). The article is published on Autostraddle , a web-site run by lesbians for the LGBT community. Feminism is a political move-ment that started from being angry at men telling women who they are andwhen and how they should speak. For this reason, this kind of advice froma man in possession of a ‘lady stick’ – as penises are referred to in the trans-gender community – that women should police their conversations and onlydescribe themselves in ways that could give no off ence to such men, couldlook rather quaintly old fashioned in its arrogance and should, perhaps, beseen as an exercise of male power.The term misogyny is also redefi ned by transgender activists so that itmeans disparagement of the femininity that is attractive to cross-dressers, asSerano comments, ‘ misogyny will be used to describe this tendency to dismissand deride femaleness and femininity’ (Serano, 2007 : 14). According to thislogic feminists are mostly misogynists because they seek to abolish femininity,the behaviour of the underclass, and gender in general. As Serano explains,‘When a transperson is ridiculed or dismissed’, they become ‘victims of aspecifi c form of discrimination: trans-misogyny ’ (Serano 2007 : 15) (emphasisin original). This kind of verbal sleight of hand is a good example of whatradical feminist theorist Mary Daly describes as ‘patriarchal reversal’ (Daly, : 79). Transgender ideology is full of such reversals, in which the mater-ial reality of biological and existential womanhood is usurped by men whofantasise about being women.The new language silences women and feminists. Any statements orbehaviours that off end men who transgender, such as political criticism orlack of enthusiasm on the part of lesbians for relationships with men with‘lady sticks’, are labelled ‘transphobia’. This word owes its origin to the term‘homophobia’, which is not the most useful of terms because it implies thathatred of homosexuals is some form of psychological problem rather than a politics. Discussion of what transgender activists are doing or saying can thusbe labelled irrational as well as discriminatory and hateful. Feminist criticism,of course, is far from irrational and based in decades of theorising and prac-tice, but through transgender sleight of hand it can be buried in loud boosand hisses and accusations of transphobia before it can reasonably be heardor considered.The transimposition of their particular version of politically correct lan-guage has the eff ect of making it difficult to mention women’s bodily pro-cesses. Even the observation that menstruation is a function of persons whoare female can be labelled transphobic. In a book on menstruation from this scientifi c fact is proclaimed unacceptable because it disturbs the sens-ibilities of women who transgender and like to think they are not actuallywomen:radical menstruation activists have changed the language of menstru-ation to talk about ‘menstruators’ rather than ‘women who menstruate.’This choice of language not only refl ects a commitment to a moreinclusive (including trans people) movement but also demonstrates thepolitical importance of gender neutral language and dismantling thenarrowness and restrictiveness of gender binaries.(Worcester, 2013 : 151)In similar advice in the newsletter of the environmental group Earth First,women are told not to describe their bodies and reproductive processes asfemale: ‘I am a birth educator, and with a lot of practice I have been able toreplace cissexist language with more neutral terms like “birthing person,”“parent,” “breastfeeding person” etc. … Changing cissexist language mayseem like a lot of work, but it makes such a diff erence for trans people. Justdo it!’ (Hollis, 2013 ). Serano refers to himself as an ‘infertile woman’ andclaims to fi nd ‘contraception-focused’ feminism ‘alienating’ (Scum-o-rama, ). Issues related to reproduction are of great importance to women, ofcourse, but may be boring for men who want ‘feminism’ to concentrate ontheir interest in impersonating women.A useful resource providing insights into how both men and women aca-demics who transgender seek to reconfi gure feminism to suit their interestsis the collection Transfeminist Perspectives (Enke (ed.), 2012 ). It is edited byAnne Enke, a self-described ‘transfeminist teacher and activist’ who has a‘vested interest in keeping the categories woman, and trans* [ sic ] wide open’(Enke, 2012a : 77). Enke says that he is someone who ‘peed standing up as achild, who spent more than twenty years terrifi ed that someone would dis-cover that I was “really” male, and who passes almost consistently as a woman’(Enke, 2012a : 71). Enke grew back his beard in 2012 and now wears it with abraid/plait. He has the privilege of being able to use whatever toilet he wantswithout being queried because of his high status at the university but remainsso angry at not feeling entirely welcome in the women’s facility, thatI go there, braided and bearded, and am furious to discover the options… I can walk through either door, and I will not be physically or ver-bally assaulted. I enter the one that says ‘women’ … I kick the door ashard as I can on my way out.(Enke, 2012a : 73)Such an act of aggression may well undermine Enke’s mission to be recog-nised as a woman.Enke argues, as is common in the transgender version of feminism, thatboth gender and sex are socially constructed: ‘Gender, and also sex, are madethrough complex social and technical manipulations that naturalize somewhile abjecting others’ (ibid.). All bodies, Enke argues, are ‘made’, and theproblem with many feminists is that they believe that there is a diff erencebetween men’s bodies and women’s bodies and that that diff erence of bio-logical sex matters. In fact, he states, all bodies are ‘made, one kind of bodyno more or less technologically produced than the other’, and ‘feminist,queer, disability, and critical-race theorists, trans studies’ recognise this. Somefeminists, though, ‘preserve sex as a category’ and presume ‘that there is aknowable diff erence between male and female bodies’ (Enke, 2012b : 6). Itis quite hard to know what Enke means here, since the reproductive diff er-ences between male and female bodies, breasts that can lactate, wombs andmenstruation, non-surgical vaginas, penises, testes, are all objectively ‘know-able’ except in the argument of someone trying to deny common sense. Infact, Enke points out that ‘the vast majority of transsexual people and peoplewith signifi cant cross-gender identifi cation will have no genital surgeries’(ibid.), so the diff erences will be quite clear to the naked eye. Transfeminism,it seems, is based on a rather mystical principle that there is no such thing asbiology. Enke makes a land grab for feminism itself, arguing that it is but avariety of transgender practice: ‘most feminists should be seeing feminism asa transgender phenomenon: Some version of gender self-determination andresistance to binary gender norms and oppressions has always been central tofeminism’ (Enke, 2012b : 5).Feminism is not just under attack from men who transgender, however.Jean Bobby Noble, a female academic who has transgendered, demonstratesconsiderable hostility towards feminism for its focus on female bodies (Noble, ). Noble accuses feminists of ‘panic’ about gender and says there is ‘inces-sant repetition of panic over trans entities in the house of feminism’ (Noble, : 59) (emphasis in original). Feminists, it seems, are hysterical rather than having well thought out ideas about women being the foundation of thefeminist project. Noble adds another insulting term to the critique of femin-ism by arguing that feminists are ‘fundamentalists’.Doesn’t the gender-panicked imperative to ‘remember the women’mark an unequivocal gender fundamentalism, where such fundamen-talisms themselves – not unlike those of nationalism, military-state,white-supremacist, or Christian, to name only a few – function toground a feminist imaginary and its methodology of social, moral,and biological coercive normalization?(Noble, 2012 : 50)Noble uses the language of warfare to describe the campaign to make feministsbow to transgender priorities: ‘Trans entities’ are having to ‘slowly fi ght theirway into institutionalized feminist spaces’ (Noble, 2012 : 57).Another important exponent of transgender feminism is the muchrespected Australian professor and theorist of gender, Robert Connell, whotransgendered late in life and now calls himself Raewyn Connell. Connellwrites and lectures on transgenderism and feminism (Connell, 2011 , 2012 ).He describes criticisms of transgenderism made by Jeff reys and other femi-nists as ‘attacks’. Connell proclaims that the campaign by feminists to abolishgender is inappropriate because gender should be maintained:The current in metropolitan feminism that hopes to abolish gender ordissolve the gender order has had strong appeal in the past two decades.But in the long run, transsexual women will fi nd more relevance in theattempt to create just gender orders.(Connell, 2012 : 873)In ‘just gender orders’, gender will be retained but there will be less inequal-ity between genders. In fact, the idea of a ‘just gender order’ is an oxymoronsince gender is a hierarchy and in the absence of inequality would not exist.It is hard to know how inequality can be rendered ‘just’. Despite his statusand the esteem in which his contribution to feminist theory has been held,he ends up on the same trajectory as Julia Serano, towards the necessary pro-tection of femininity.The silencing of dissentAlongside the direct confrontation that transgender activists are staging withfeminist theory, there are many other ways in which their campaigning dam-ages the gains of second wave feminism. Some of these will be discussedlater in this volume, such as the campaign to enter women-only spaces andwomen-only services and the promotion of the transgendering of children.Other direct onslaughts on feminism and feminists will be considered here,such as the vilifying of, and attempts to silence, the work of feminist activistsand theorists. It is important to transgender activists that they should be ableto silence the feminist, sociological and scientifi c criticism of their practice,because much of the critique is easily understandable and likely to be readilyembraced by a critical public if it gains publicity. The main method adoptedto eff ect this silencing consists of campaigns of hatred and vilifi cation to des-troy the reputations of critics and to deny them spaces to speak or publishtheir work. If a person is known to have ever been critical of the practiceof transgenderism the transgender activists seek to get them banned fromspeaking about any topic at all or harass them at venues. I was banned fromspeaking at a conference in London in July 2012, which was due to takeplace at the well-known venue, Conway Hall, as a result of the campaigningof transgender activists (Jeff reys, 2012a ). The organisers were informed bythe venue operators that I would not be allowed to speak after the activistshad applied pressure and accused me of hate speech. I was banned on thegrounds that I fostered ‘hatred’ and was guilty of active discrimination. Onbeing asked to provide proof for this, Conway Hall appeared to compare meto ‘David Irving the holocaust denier’. The proff ered evidence consisted ofquotes from my work arguing that transgender surgery should be considereda human rights violation – hardly evidence of hate speech. The feminist aca-demic Germaine Greer was glitter-bombed in New Zealand in 2012 at abook signing by transgender activists for being critical of the practice in herbook The Whole Woman and in other remarks (Gray, 2012 ).Infl uential feminist opinion columnists receive similar treatment. InJanuary 2013 the Guardian columnist, Suzanne Moore, became the object ofserious and aggressive bullying by transgender activists because she opinedthat women were expected, in their appearance, to resemble Brazilian trans-sexuals (Moore, ). This led to a quite vicious campaign against heron social media. Moore replied with exasperation and the campaign wasramped up, with violent insults and threats explicitly directed against herfemale biology. Tweets included the sentiments that Moore was a ‘cunt’, ‘acompletely horrifi c bag of trash’, a ‘cunted cunt’, ‘transmisogynist arseholeextraordinaire’, ‘a piss stain on the pants of fascism’. She was told that sheneeded to be ‘entered’, and, ‘Guess who secretly wants to fuck all the transchicks’. One commented, ‘I will cut your face off and feed it to the wolves’(GenderTrender, 2013 ). In defence of Moore, Julie Burchill, another well-known and controversial columnist, wrote a piece critical of transgenderismin the Observer newspaper (Young, 2013 ). The transgender activist campaignagainst the Burchill piece led to its removal from the website and the issuing of an apology to the activists (Sweeney, 2013 ). In response, many malestreamnewspapers and feminist blogs chose to publish Burchill’s piece and complainthat the censorship of her was unreasonable. Transgender views are well rep-resented in the Guardian and the Observer , with a number of men who havetransgendered, such as Jane Fae, Roz Kaveney and Juliet Jacques, having regu-lar columns in which they promote transgender ideology, criticise feminismand describe their transitions in very considerable detail. But these liberalnewspapers, which seek to be politically correct, very rarely publish materialthat raises any kind of questions about the practice.This harassment is so abusive, including copious taunts of ‘Die cis scum’directed at any feminists that are transcritical (They say this never happens, ), that it suggests considerable rage on the part of the transgender activ-ists involved. In acknowledgement of this, transgender psychotherapist, AnneLawrence, has provided an explanation (Lawrence, 2008 ). Lawrence arguesthat the level of anger and abuse, including threats of extreme violenceincluding death, could be accounted for by ‘narcissistic rage’, that is a formof rage experienced by persons who have suff ered from shame and react inextreme and aggressive ways when they are challenged because of their his-tory of feeling inferior. Whatever the explanation, the very determined andvituperative campaigns against critics suggest a great anxiety by transgenderactivists about the possibility that their practice could be rethought, and thattheir interpretations might not be the only ones that should be allowed anairing in the public domain.At a time when feminism was experiencing backlash from many directions,the impact of queer and postmodern theory undermined the possibility thatacademic feminists and feminist communities could stand up to the challengeposed by the entryism of men who transgender into the movement. Oncequeer theory had made the category ‘woman’ questionable and promoted thetransgressive nature of playing with gender, the transgender project was hardto criticise. The result is that not only has there been no critique of trans-genderism from feminist scholars in recent decades, but transgender ideol-ogy has been welcomed into the feminist academy where students may betaught to deride the important work of second wave feminists on this issue,learn new politically correct language that makes it very difficult to articulatewomen’s interests, and become radically uncertain about their sex and sexu-ality. The transgender project of promoting femininity as the proper focus offeminism has made considerable inroads into an academic feminism, whichhas, to a large extent, lost its way and failed to support women and feministscholarship. There has been no feminist scholarship in recent decades that iscritical, for example, of the harmful hormonal and surgical treatments thatare used to transgender women and men, despite much incisive feminist criti-cism of such treatments when directed at women in the form of cosmeticsurgery and hormone replacement therapy. The next chapter will seek toshow that such a critique is urgently needed and contribute towards openingup a transcritical space on the mental and physical health of those who aretransgendered.This chapter examines the harmful eff ects of the practice of transgenderismon the health and functioning of transgenders themselves. The transgenderstudies literature is generally celebratory and does not cover the harm to thehealth of individual transgenders from their medical treatment. Moreover, itdisregards the increasingly common problem of ‘transgender regret’, that isthe feelings of survivors of the treatment who consider that they have beenwrongly diagnosed and may wish to have reconstructive surgery so that theycan repair surgical harms. While feminist scholars have explored the harmfuleff ects of other areas of hormone treatment and cosmetic surgery, and cre-ated sophisticated theoretical critiques of the medical industry that wreaksthis damage on women (Haiken, 1997 ; Sullivan, Deborah A., 2001 ), there isno such critique, apart from the early pioneering work of Janice Raymond,of transgender treatment (Raymond, 1979/1994). This is the case despite thefact that many of the surgeries and treatments are the same as those that haveharmful eff ects upon women. Prolonged hormone treatment, for instance,is used on women in the forms of the contraceptive pill and implants, andon postmenopausal women when it is called hormone replacement therapy(HRT), precisely the same term that is applied to similar drug regimes whenused on women and men who have been transgendered. The surgeons whooff er cosmetic treatments to enable women to play the feminine part alsooff er cosmetic breast and facial surgeries to men who wish to play a similarrole. But the feminist critique of cosmetic surgery has not been extended tothe similar treatment of transgenders.This chapter will bridge this divide and criticise the harms to the bod-ies of its victims of what Janice G. Raymond calls The Transsexual Empire( 1979 /1994), which consists of those parts of the medical profession, and thosepharmaceutical companies, that rely on transgendering men, women andchildren for their profi ts. In the early twenty-century, sex-reassignmentsurgery (SRS) is common worldwide from small towns in the United Statesto developing countries. It is an important part of the medical tourism indus-try of Thailand and of the economy of the small town of Trinidad in thestate of Colorado, for instance (Bucar and Enke, 2011 ). An example of theavoidance of such topics is a chapter in the collection Transgender FeministPerspectives (Enke (ed.), 2012 ), ostensibly concerned with fi tting the practiceof transgenderism into political economy theory, and subtitled ‘Notes on theRelationship between Critical Political Economy and Trans Studies’ (Irving, ). I was intrigued and thought some of these problematic issues mightat last be approached. But the chapter turns out to be concerned with whois able to aff ord the treatments, and contains nothing about the internationalmedical tourism industry that services those seeking surgery, and nothingon who is making the profi ts, the drug companies, hospitals and surgeons,psychiatrists and therapists. Such considerations are not part of transgenderstudies, though they are an important part of feminist studies. This chap-ter describes the treatment options for both male and female-bodied trans-genders and details the consequences and side eff ects. It uses informationfrom the websites of transgender support organisations, medical literature,and interviews with one male and one female transgender regretter to gainan understanding of how the mental and physical health of those who trans-gender is aff ected.The effi cacy of sex reassignment – medical disagreementHistorically, there has been far from universal agreement as to the efficacy oftreatment for persons identifi ed as transsexual/transgender. The term ‘efficacy’is widely used in the medical literature on the practice but not well defi ned.In this chapter I understand the ‘efficacy’ of treatment to relate to the degreeof improvement in mental health without injury to physical health. Sincethe 1950s and 1960s when some endocrinologists such as Harry Benjaminwere seeking to legitimise body changing treatment for transsexuals, therehave been doctors and psychiatrists who did not agree that a problem ofthe mind should be treated with physical therapies. As early as the 1970s, DrJon Meyer conducted an evaluation of the success of the treatment at theJohns Hopkins Gender Identity Clinic, which led him to the conclusion thatphysical therapies were ineff ective (Meyer and Reter, 1979 ). He does not seetransgenderism as an innate condition that should be affirmed by surgery, butsees the request for sex change as essentially ‘problematic’, and he wants to‘step back from “normalization” of sex-reassignment procedures in order tolook objectively at the long-range eff ects of surgery’ (Meyer and Reter, 1979 :). Meyer and Reter document the fi ndings of the small number of pre-vious evaluations of the eff ectiveness of treatment, none of which support the overwhelmingly positive message that issues from transgender activists today.Meyer’s conclusion after his evaluation of fi fty persons, including a compari-son between those who asked for surgery and got it and those who wererefused, was that ‘Sex reassignment surgery confers no objective advantagein terms of social rehabilitation, although it remains subjectively satisfying’(Meyer and Reter, 1979 : 1015). Meyer’s critique of transgender treatmentcontains no trace of a feminist perspective. Like other psychiatrists of hisera he was keen to blame women, usually mothers, for the psychologicalproblems of his patients. He attributes gender identity problems in womenand girls to mothers who have ‘signifi cant character pathology’, possess ‘penisenvy’ and ‘a sense of the unfairness of a woman’s “lot” (penetration, menstru-ation, gestation)’ (Meyer, 1982 : 410).Paul McHugh, who became Head of Psychiatry at Johns HopkinsUniversity in the 1970s, upon seeing the lack of evidence for the efficacy ofsurgery stated, ‘Hopkins was fundamentally cooperating with a mental illness.We psychiatrists, I thought, would do better to concentrate on trying to fi xtheir minds and not their genitalia’ (McHugh, 2004 ). McHugh stopped thepractice of SRS at Johns Hopkins in 1979 and other university clinics fol-lowed suit. This critique continues in the present but has become much moremuted as a result of the normalisation of the practice and the burgeoningof the ‘transsexual empire’. Nonetheless, one strong contemporary critiquecomes from the psychiatrist Az Hakeem, who works at the Portman Clinicin London, specialising in therapy with those seeking to be transgendered,and those who have been transgendered but continue to suff er distress. Ina book chapter aptly titled ‘Trans-sexuality: a case of “The Emperor’s NewClothes”’, he calls the notion of persons seeking to be transgendered thatthey are really of the other gender or sex an ‘overwhelming false belief ’ and a‘delusional disorder’ (Hakeem, 2007 : 184). He criticises the practice of treat-ing transgenderism as a biological condition that resides in the body and canbe cured through hormones and surgery, commenting that ‘It seems strangethat as psychiatrists we attempt to address an internal psychological confl ictwith an exterior surgical solution’ (Hakeem, 2007 : 183). He points out thatpsychiatrists who are ‘psychoanalytically informed’ are those most likely to becritical of the practice. One such critic is the French, feminist psychoanalyst,Colette Chiland (Chiland, 2004 ).There is still a remarkable absence of recent studies that follow up thosewho have SRS to fi nd out whether this treatment is efficacious despite thegreat expansion of the industry of transgendering. A 2011 long-term fol-low-up study from Sweden found that sex reassignment was not efficaciousbecause after sex reassignment transgenders had higher risks of psychiatricmorbidity, suicidal behaviour and mortality overall than the general popula-tion, when using controls of the same birth sex. The study concluded that ‘sexreassignment’ may alleviate ‘gender dysphoria’ but ‘may not suffice as treat-ment for transsexualism, and should inspire improved psychiatric and som-atic care after sex reassignment’ (Dhejne et al ., 2011 ). The voices of criticalmedical personnel, and the problems revealed by the few long-term evalua-tions, have not been successful in dampening the enthusiasm of the medicalprofession and pharmaceutical companies for this fashionable and profi table‘disorder’. Indeed, the public health service of the UK, the National HealthService, has endorsed the practice not just for adults but also for children(Department of Health, 2008 ).Identifying ‘real’ transgendersHealth professionals seek to identify those who have a ‘genuine’ gender iden-tity disorder, or gender dysphoria as it is renamed in the 2013 Diagnostic andStatistical Manual , and assert its essential nature as the justifi cation for treatingit. This is despite the fact that transgenderism is becoming an increasinglyslippery concept. And the idea that it is a disorder of any kind is in disputeby transgender activists themselves, some of whom argue that the hormonesand surgery should be elective and constitute ways of contouring the bodythat everyone should have the right to access via the public purse. Moreover,many transgenders in the present make no eff ort to support the idea thatthey are essentially members of the opposite sex. In Kristen Schilt’s study offemale-bodied transgenders, for instance, she found that some of her inter-viewees did not consider themselves men or male (Schilt, 2006 ). They weresimply women who had availed themselves of ‘top’ surgery, or may be takinghormones electively. Female-bodied transgender, Jean Bobby Noble, says thatthe borderlines between butches and transgenders are blurred and describesherself, a woman who was a lesbian and feminist for many years before shedecided to transgender, as ‘a guy who is half a lesbian’ (Noble, 2012 : 29).She says that she does not ‘fi nd my home in the word “lesbian” any longer(although that’s often my dating pool)’ (Noble, 2012 : 21). The prominent USmale-bodied transgender activist, Rikki Wilchins, now describes himself as a‘male-to-female-to-male transsexual’, and has given up any attempts to look‘feminine’, though he still uses the women’s toilets (Wilchins, 2013 ). Wilchinsis the founder of the transgender activist group Transsexual Menace; the cam-paigning group GenderPAC, which promotes the right to ‘gender’; and theencampment that lays siege to the Michigan Women’s Music Festival, CampTrans. The understanding of who is genuinely transgender becomes moreand more murky and insubstantial, at precisely the same time that more isbeing revealed about the harmful eff ects of the practice. The idea that thereis such an entity as a ‘real’ transsexual has become increasingly difficult tosupport. The task of identifi cation is muddied further by the campaign by part ofthe transgender rights movement to defeat the idea that the desire to tran-sition is a ‘mental disorder’. Rather, activists argue that transgenderism is anordinary expression of the human condition and should be available in thesame way as other forms of cosmetic surgery in which people seek to expressa desired appearance. Riki Wilchins is an infl uential exponent of this point ofview and states that transgenderism should not be seen as a mental disorderand that SRS is similar to the variety of cosmetic surgeries that some womenengage in. He complains that while his mother ‘can go into the hospitaltomorrow and she can get calf implants and chin implants, get her eyelids,her butt, and her tummy tucked, collagen put into her lips and collagen takenoff her thighs’, if he were to ‘go into the same hospital for a “groin job”’ heis seen as having a mental disorder (Drescher, 2002 : 79). Despite this deter-mination by some transgender activists to defeat the idea that transgenderismis evidence of poor mental health, there is considerable evidence that personswho transgender do suff er from a range of serious mental health problemsbefore, and often after, they transition.Psychological harmsThe main argument advanced for the efficaciousness of transgender treatmentis that it improves mental health, but there is a good deal of evidence that thisis not necessarily the case. The severity of the mental health problems of per-sons who aspire to transgender are clear in the clinical literature, with patientswho present at gender clinics having ‘levels of anxiety and depressive disordersthat are much higher than the general population’ (Nuttbrock et al ., 2010 : 13).However, as a result of the normalisation of transgenderism that has takenplace, the medical professionals who treat transgenders are reluctant to see thedesire to transgender as a symptom of this mental distress. Rather, in order tomatch the trans ideology that the desire to transgender is an entirely sane andreasonable ambition that should not be managed by medical gatekeepers, theconcept of ‘minority stress’ has been used in explanation of the psychologicaldistress that transgenders experience. ‘Minority stress’ is a concept developedin relation to gay men, meaning the psychological distress they experience as aresult of their minority status (Meyer, 1995 ). A form of this approach, adaptedto transgenderism, is ubiquitous in the voluminous clinical literature. If per-sons who transgender were unhappy children, for instance, then it is assumedthat this was because they were ‘really’ transgender even at that time. Mentalhealth professionals are advised that they should abandon misgivings and beaccepting of any claims by their patients to be transgender and avoid at all costsany negative responses or attempts to deter them from embarking on theirquest. To suggest that the mental health problems that transgenders experiencemay be the cause of transgenderism would, according to this literature, bemost reprehensible.A similar approach, the ‘disability model’, is now being promoted as bestpractice for dealing with transgender patients in a guide for UK hospi-tals produced by the Royal Free Hospital in Hampstead: ‘In understandingthe great difficulties in trans people’s lives, it is helpful to adopt the widelyaccepted disability model – that it is the barriers and obstacles presented insociety that cause the problems and not being trans in itself ’ (Thom andWeeks, 2010 ). According to this model, as in that of ‘minority stress’, thedistress that transgenders feel is the result of discrimination and prejudiceagainst them. The ‘minority stress’ approach and the ‘disability model’ havea lot of work to do to explain why the severe distress of those who trans-gender is so long-lasting, both before and after transition. One study takingthis approach, that the distress of transgenders is caused by abuse that isrelated to their gender identities and called ‘gender-related’ abuse, found thatlifetime major depression in the male-bodied transgenders who were stud-ied, at 54.3 per cent, was almost three times higher than the estimate for thegeneral population (Nuttbrock et al ., 2010 : 21). Lifetime suicidal ideation, at.5 per cent, was more than three times that for the general population.The use of concepts such as ‘gender-related’ abuse, ‘minority stress’, andthe disability model creates a context in which important questions cannotbe asked. It closes out the possibility that violence and sexual and physicalabuse may be causes of the desire to ‘transition’. There is some support inthe literature, though the research does not usually ask about this, for a con-nection between the experience of sexual violence and a determination totransgender. Holly Devor’s study of women who had transgendered found astrong association in information volunteered by interviewees, but did notask a question about violence (Devor, 1994 ). One study of attempted sui-cide among transgenders, which found that 60 per cent of participants weredepressed, also found that 59 per cent had been forced to have sex or raped,which, the authors consider, is one of the factors related to the high rate ofattempted suicide – 32 per cent in the sample (Clements-Nolle and Marx, ). The regretter who was interviewed for this book, Walt Heyer, whosewebsite and publications have led to his networking with large numbers ofsurvivors, considers that sexual abuse is an under-recognised contributor tothe desire to transgender. It played a role, he argues, in his case as he was ‘sexu-ally molested by my uncle before I was 10 years old for a 2–3 year period oftime’. The abuse took place after the uncle discovered that the grandmotherwas putting the boy child into feminine attire. In relation to female-bodiedtransgenders in particular, he says, ‘in every case where I have had a personalinvolvement with the family or the parents the kid was abused, every one ofthem!’ But recognition of this link would undermine the accepted belief in the medical profession that the distress of those who transgender is due onlyto ‘minority stress’, and so it is not the focus of research.The assumption behind hormonal and surgical treatments is that thesemental health problems will be alleviated but there is a good deal of evi-dence in terms of suicidality and depression, for instance, that this will notnecessarily be the case. One reason for this may be that social functioning isimpaired rather than improved by the practice, as persons who transgendermay fi nd it difficult to form relationships and may alienate their families. AGerman follow-up study after fi ve years found that 30 to 40 per cent of thepatients who had been very carefully selected for sex-reassignment surgerydid not ‘seem to benefi t fully from SRS’ in areas such as social, psychological,and psychiatric functioning (Bodlund and Kullgren, 1996 : 311). As well asnot providing redress for the psychological ills experienced by transgenders,the treatments by hormones and surgery are likely to create new and gravechallenges for health and functioning.Side effects of hormone treatmentThough some aspiring transgenders buy hormones on the black market,most will fi nd physicians willing to prescribe them. An increasing percentageof transgenders do not undertake surgery on their genitals though they mayhave mastectomies, or breast implants. However, most do take hormones andthe treatment is called ‘hormone replacement therapy’ or HRT. HRT waspromoted to women as a way to alleviate the distress they experienced whentheir allotted sex role of looking desirable for men was undermined by theaging process, and it was touted as a way to prevent menopausal symptoms. Itwas severely discredited in the early 2000s (Writing Group for the Women’sHealth Initiative Investigators, 2002 ). But, with the increasing use of HRTby transgenders, the drug companies have found a newly profi table form ofpsychological distress to exploit. Hormone usage has to be lifelong for thosewho wish to maintain an appearance of the opposite sex, or who need toavoid the premature menopause and problems for bone health involved inbeing without hormones. Profi ts will be increased by rising numbers of diag-noses, particularly if these take place at young ages and hook children intoseventy or eighty years of hormone use.As a result of the remarkable lack of long-term follow-up studies thereis little information on the eff ects of hormone treatment of transsexu-als (Schlatterer et al ., 1998 ). One short-term follow-up study warns, how-ever, that ‘cross-sex hormonal treatment may have substantial medical sideeff ects’ (Futterweit, 1998 : 209). It found that the main side eff ects of andro-gen therapy in female-bodied transgenders were: water and sodium reten-tion and occasional ‘cerebrovascular accidents’; increased erythropoiesis, i.e.overdevelopment of red blood cells, which may require bloodletting; decreasedcarbohydrate tolerance; decreased serum high-density lipoprotein cholesterol,which is an indicator of diseased arteries; liver enzyme abnormalities, whichcan indicate cancer risk; obesity; emotional or psychiatric problems including‘very frequent early increased aggressiveness, fl uctuating moods’; hypersexu-ality; ‘aff ective and/or psychotic symptoms’; and depression (Futterweit, 1998 :). The study warns against prolonged hormone treatment prior to surgerybecause of the risk of endometrial cancer. A study of two cases of long-termexposure to androgens leading to ovarian epithelial cancer concludes thatandrogen use is a risk factor for this form of cancer and recommends removalof ovaries in female-bodied transgenders (Hage, 2000 ).A 1980s evaluation by a team from the Dutch transgender industry foundvery worrying results (Asscheman et al ., 1989 ). They studied 425 ‘transsexual’patients for the ‘side eff ects of sex steroid treatment’ (Asscheman et al ., 1989 :). They found, as have other studies, a serious level of suicidality, with thenumber of deaths in men who transgendered being fi ve times the numberexpected when compared with men who did not transgender. But the studyalso found signifi cant adverse health eff ects from the hormone treatment.There was an increase in thromboembolic events (45-fold); in hyperprol-actinemia, that is excessive production of the hormone responsible for milksecretion in women’s breasts (400-fold); depressive mood changes (15-fold);and transient elevation of liver enzymes. The problems were diff erent and notas lethal for women who transgendered, consisting mainly of weight gain andacne, but both groups had persistent liver enzyme abnormalities. The studyconcluded that the ‘occurrence of serious side eff ects’ was ‘not rare’.A study of the way in which the hormone treatment took place foundthat there was very considerable inconsistency in dosage: ‘Typical transsex-ual estrogens were two to three times as high as the recommended doses forhormone replacement therapy (HRT) in postmenopausal women’ (Mooreet al ., 2003 : 3468). The authors point out that this is a serious concern con-sidering the fi ndings of the Women’s Health Initiative study where consider-ably lower levels of hormone usage were found to cause harm. The Women’sHealth Initiative study of 2002 found combined oestrogen and progestinincreased the risk of coronary heart disease, strokes, pulmonary embolismand invasive breast cancers in postmenopausal women on HRT (WritingGroup for the Women’s Health Initiative Investigators, 2002 ). For this rea-son, sustained use of a progestin is warned against, though some practition-ers are still using it for purposes such as enhancing breast growth (Mooreet al ., 2003 : 3469). The study on forms of hormone treatment concludedthat the ‘adverse eff ects of sex steroid therapy are real and apparent’ and itstates that ‘gender reassignment … should not be considered a cure’ (ibid.). Itfound that some patients, who procured hormones from a variety of sources, were on regimes of hormones that were twenty-one or even thirty timesgreater than in postmenopausal women. The study found that there was lit-tle research on the eff ects on women who transgender because the numberswere usually too small, but the authors considered that the risks for this groupmay be ‘underestimated’ as the ‘worrisome combination of increased weight,decreased insulin sensitivity, poor lipid profi les, and an increase in hematocrit(percentage of red blood cells) have raised the concern for cardiac and throm-boembolytic events’ (Moore et al ., 2003 : 3470). Another serious eff ect formale-bodied transgenders seems to be the possibility of breast cancer, withone study noting increased risk of breast cancer, deep vein thrombosis andosteoporosis, especially for older male-bodied transgenders (Persson, 2009 ).The National Health Service (NHS) in the UK admits that little researchhas been done on the long-term use of hormones in transgendered people,eff ectively admitting that this treatment is experimental. They write,‘Hormone treatment for trans people at reasonable dosages is remarkablysafe’ (NHS, 2007 : 11) but then proceed to list the potential side eff ects.They point out that taking oestrogen is associated with thrombosis, stroke,pulmonary embolism and altered liver function, and that taking testoster-one is associated with polycythaemia (overproduction of red blood cells)(NHS, 2007 ; Persson, 2009 ). The overproduction of red blood cells causesthe blood to become thicker than normal and can cause breathlessness andphlebitis (infl ammation of the veins), thus increasing the risk of heart diseaseand heart attack. For a practice that is ‘remarkably safe’, this is a surpris-ingly extensive list of serious side eff ects. All of these health problems areattached to a practice that, as we have seen, some authors have identifi ed as‘iatrogenic’, that is, caused by the faulty diagnosis that originated from themedical profession itself (Bullough, 2006 ). Though once what was called‘transsexualism’ was understood to require sex-reassignment surgery as wellas hormone consumption, this is not the case with transgenderism. Aspirantsare likely to take hormones but may not proceed to surgery, and, indeed, the Gender Recognition legislation in the UK requires neither hormonesnor surgery on the part of those receiving certifi cates to show they havechanged their sex (Jeff reys, 2008 ). For those who do go on to surgery otherserious harms are likely to result.Surgery and self-harmFor those transgenders who seek to change their bodies there are a numberof means that do not require access to the conventional medical system. Sometransgenders may not have the resources to use doctors, or may be lead-ing disorganised lives in which non-medical practices are more familiar andaccessible. They will often self-harm before they transition, through practicessuch as using street-bought hormones, injecting silicone into chest tissueand breast binding, practices that are outside medical supervision. They mayengage in cutting and piercing as other young people involved in body modi-fi cation do (Jeff reys, 2000 ; 2008 ). Body modifi ers have high suicidality andexhibit similar mental health problems to those who transgender (Jeff reys, ). Once body modifi ers become involved with the medical profession,their self-harm becomes official and is directed by doctors licensed by thestate. Doctors may be unlikely to recognise the legitimacy of a man’s desireto be a nullo (i.e. a body modifi cation practice of having all external genitalsamputated) and he would likely have to fi nd a professional piercer and cutterto do the job. They do, however, recognise transgenderism and put patientson regimes of hormones that will change their bodies, in some ways perman-ently, and direct them towards surgery to remove sexual characteristics. All ofthese practices infl ict harms upon the body, which include scarring, loss ofsensation, sterilisation, weight gain, acne, infection, necrosis of tissue and manymore problems, alongside the risks involved in undergoing anaesthesia.It is not always easy to distinguish the medical practices from those thatself-mutilators carry out on themselves in private, or engage others to practiseupon them. There can be a connection between self-harm in private, such asthat which young women in particular are likely to perform in their homes,and ‘self-mutilation by proxy’, that is practices in which women and menseek out others to infl ict dangerous physical harms to their bodies (Jeff reys, ). The proxies may be professionals in the cutting and piercing indus-try who brand and cut out designs from fl esh and are paid to do so, or theymay be tops in sadomasochism in which cutting, branding and piercing arecommon practices. They may also be medical doctors who legitimise self-mutilation by providing their services for a fee, such as cosmetic surgeonswho do breast implants and facelifts for women and those who performtransgender surgery.The harmful practice that an aspiring female-bodied transgender islikely to adopt, without medical oversight, is breast binding. Breast bind-ing is not a new practice, but was adopted by butch lesbians in the 1950s inthe United States and United Kingdom as a way to make them look moremasculine or to alleviate the dysphoria of loving women in clearly femalebodies, in an era when that was socially forbidden (Jeff reys, 1989 ). While theadvent of lesbian feminism in the 1970s enabled lesbians to have pride inloving women without having to ape men or negate female characteristics,the rebirth of butch and femme role playing, and now transgenderism, havemeant that in the last two decades breast binding has returned to the lesbiancommunity with a vengeance. Interestingly, breast binding is a practice thatwas a counterpart to foot binding in China until the 1920s (Chin, 2012 ).The practice was enforced on women to conceal their sexual characteristics and to conform with modesty requirements. Breasts were seen as too sexu-ally explicit and exciting to men. Presently, it is a Chinese cultural context,Taiwan, that is now an important source of binders for aspiring female-bod-ied transgenders who are keen to conceal their female sexual characteristics(see for example, T-Kingdom, accessed 20 February 2013 ).Among female-bodied transgenders, the desire to eliminate their breastsis strong and they are likely to use breast binding as a technique to hide theirbreasts in the lead-up to having them surgically removed. Breast binding leadsto a number of serious health problems. The Transguys website off ers adviceon what it calls ‘chest binding’, which is perhaps a more appealing term forwomen who are denying that they have female body parts (Transguys, 2010 ).They warn against binding in ways that restrict breathing and create a lackof oxygen and warn that binders are uncomfortable and hot, causing sweatand skin irritation and sores that resemble open wounds. Despite the harms,Transguys explains, ‘chest binding’ can be ‘very freeing for transgender men’as it can ‘curb dysphoria’. A Stanford University student health website off ersuseful tips in relation to ‘chest’ binding, explaining that using ‘Ace band-ages, saran wrap, or duct tape’ can peel skin and permanently damage ribs(Stanford University, n.d.). Rib displacement from the practice, which canlead to permanent physical harm, is a common source of concern on trans-gender ‘health’ websites (Ira, 2010 ).Surgery for female-bodied transgendersSurgeons have become active participants in the contemporary epidemic ofself-mutilation. They act as proxies in the now mainstream and profi tablepractice of cosmetic surgery, mostly on women (Sullivan, Deborah, 2001 ),and it has now become routine for some of the same surgeons to performsex-reassignment surgery so that those who cut women’s labia to make themmore socially acceptable, and tighten their vaginas for their husbands’ pleas-ure, also create labia and vaginas for men who are transitioning to become‘women’ (Jeff reys, 2005 ). Surgery for female-bodied transgenders, whichcan include mastectomy, hysterectomy and phalloplasty, creates a numberof health challenges. Mastectomy can lead to severe scarring and, as HollyDevor explains, this type of amputation surgery can lead to serious losses,such as permanent loss of feeling in nipples (Devor, 1999 : 480). The major-ity of female-bodied transgenders in Devor’s study chose not to go on tophalloplasty, though such a decision can lead to them feeling incomplete intheir sexual lives. They may, however, choose to engage in a variety of ‘bodymodifi cations’ that are promoted on transgender websites to increase the sizeof the clitoris, and make it more prominent and noticeable (Tenpenny andCascio, 2002 ).These modifi cations may include ‘pumping’ the clitoris andusing piercings to make it stick out. Piercings and metal rings may be insertedto close the vagina and make it clear to potential partners that that femalearea of the body is out of bounds (ibid.).For those who want a closer simulacrum to a penis, there are two meth-ods by which this can be accomplished: metoidioplasty and phalloplasty.Metoidioplasty can be carried out by surgeons or, in the body modifi cationcommunity, by non-professionals. When carried out by surgeons it takes placeas follows: ‘the enlarged clitoris, which is an eff ect of testosterone hormonereplacement therapy (HRT), is relocated upwards to create a sensate andfunctioning micropenis’ (Female to Male, n.d.). This is achieved by ‘releas-ing’ the suspensory ligament and creates a small imitation penis that doesnot allow urination while standing up. Phalloplasty creates a phallus throughthe use of a fl ap of fl esh taken, usually, from the forearm, and is a lengthy,multi-stage procedure involving more serious risks. Neither procedure cre-ates a phallus that is functional in the way that a penis might be, and therecan be very serious side eff ects including lack of sexual feeling. A Frenchstudy found that forty-six patients, or 83 per cent, had some feeling in theconstructed phallus but ‘only fi ve (9%) had obvious erogenous sensitivitywhen touching their phalloplasty’ (Leriche et al ., 2008 ). Other surgeries, suchas hysterectomy, may occasion later regret as they lead to sterilisation and lossof the capacity for motherhood. Serious surgical procedures, such as thoseinvolved in reassignment that require the amputation of healthy body parts,involve the risks that appertain to anaesthesia and the problems of healingfrom complex surgery.Surgery for male-bodied transgendersMale-bodied transgenders who go further than the consumption of hor-mones seek a diff erent palette of surgeries, which can include breast implants,amputation of penis and testes, construction of a penetrable orifi ce, facialsurgeries, surgeries to ‘contour’ the body, or shave the Adam’s apple, and anarray of other possibilities. The potential range of surgeries is large and thedetermined aspirant may continue for years to undertake more and variedforms. In some cases these surgeries, too, have analogies in the non-medi-cal, body modifi cation arena. The description and illustrations of surgery onmale-bodied transgenders presented in an issue of the International Journal ofTransgenderism , the house magazine of the society of psychiatrists and sur-geons specialising in this condition set up by the sexologist Harry Benjamin,suggest similarities with the way that body modifi cation procedures, includ-ing castration, are demonstrated on the Internet for the sexual satisfactionof devotees (Perovic et al ., 2005 ). The Body Modifi cation Ezine website, forinstance, carries bloody and graphic photos of brutal cutting practices such as suspension, which can be downloaded by afi cionados for a price just like anyother pornography on the web (Jeff reys, 2008 ). The journal article includesseven pages of hand-drawn pictures illustrating how a particular group ofsurgeons cut up the penis and then eleven pages of full colour photos of the‘disassembled penis’ that are extremely gruesome with bloody bits and piecesof the penis held up by medical instruments for appraisal. The authors explainthat they invert the skin of the penis to form a vagina and insert this into a‘previously prepared cavity’. Then they form labia from ‘the remaining pen-ile and scrotal skin’ (Perovic et al ., 2005 : 43). This public presentation of themutilation of the penis is not obviously very diff erent from the forms of dis-assembly of the penis engaged in by male body modifi ers –particularly nullosand transgenders – on the Body Modifi cation Ezine website and may off ersimilar satisfactions to those involved. But it is presented under the mantle ofscience, which off ers more respectability.This mutilating practice has been so normalised as a ‘therapy’ for the prob-lem of psychological distress about ‘gender’ that the physical harms involvedare seldom remarked upon. But problems, as the Journal of Transgenderism art-icle explains, can occur. They include unsatisfactory levels of moisture, ‘rec-tovaginal fi stula due to intraoperative injury to the rectum’, ‘vaginal shrinkingin two patients’, ‘stenosis of vaginal introitus’, ‘late stenosis of urethral meatusin one patient due to injury during sexual intercourse’, ‘urethral prolapse’,and ‘posterior vaginal wall rupture during intercourse’ (Perovic et al ., 2005 :). Patients whose new orifi ces have been fashioned from sufficient penileskin need to place objects called ‘stents’ in the surgically constructed vagina atnight to keep it open ‘until sexual intercourse is regularly practiced’ (Perovicet al ., 2005 : 64). Those who have ‘insufficient penile skin’ are advised to applystents ‘continuously day and night for one year in order to prevent contrac-tures following secondary epithelializaiton of free penile skin grafts’ (ibid.).The patients are advised to use their constructed vaginas for sexual inter-course as soon as possible ‘even though bleeding may occur’. Pain is notmentioned and the problems presented by reassembly in the case of thosewho change their minds are not addressed. Electrolysis to remove pubic hairis needed if scrotal skin is used to line the constructed vagina. In one casediscussed in an article in the Guardian (Batty, 2004 ), that of Claudia, the skinof the scrotum that had been used in the constructed vagina had not hadelectrolysis to remove the pubic hair and the hair grew inside the vagina:‘One day I was making love and something didn’t feel right. There was thislittle ball of hair like a Brillo pad in my vagina.’ A surgeon pulled the hair outfor him but warned it would continually grow back (ibid.).The new orifi ce is not a vagina in the biological sense. Vaginas are con-nected into the reproductive system of the female body rather than beingsimply an external cavity, and they are self-cleansing mechanisms. The newlycarved out orifi ces of male-bodied transgenders do not resemble vaginas;rather they create new microbial habitats in which infections develop andcause serious smell issues for their owners. The problem of bad smell is acommonly occurring discussion thread on transgender advice websites. Themedical evidence is that a bad smell exists and is associated with faecal bac-teria common to those male-bodied transgenders who engage in ‘hetero-sexual’ coitus: ‘Frequent episodes of malodorous discharge were reported byone in four women and malodour was even more frequently observed upongynaecological examination, which in turn might relate to the presence offaecal bacterial vaginosis-like microfl ora’ (Weyers, et al ., 2009 ). The neovagi-nas lack the lactobacilli connected with vaginal health in females.Facial feminisation surgerySurgeries for male-bodied transgenders do not necessarily stop at amputa-tion of genitals, surgically created fake vaginas and breast implants. In the lastdecade the transgender surgery industry has diversifi ed considerably and nowoff ers a wide variety of facial feminisation surgeries (FFS). This surgery sup-posedly solves the problem, for adult men who transgender, of having mas-culine features. Some of the ‘most popular’ facial surgeries, according to theindustry website facialfeminizationsurgery.info, include: brow lift; temporallift; scalp advancement; frontal bossing reduction osteotomy; reduction oste-otomy of the supra-orbital rims; nasal tip refi nement; osteotomy of the bonypyramid; lateral lower mandibular shave; mandibular angle shave; submandibu-lar liposuction; necklift; face lift; and many more (Facialfeminizationsurgery.info, n.d.). The industry website describes FFS as ‘very invasive’ surgery andprovides a compendious list of warnings and possible harmful eff ects fromsevere risks, which include: blood loss; blood clots; infection; pneumonia;necrosis – death of tissue; and paralysis, through to less serious risks suchas scarring (Facialfeminization.info, n.d.). There are also, apparently, psycho-logical risks, including depression, and the website warns that ‘almost everypatient can suff er some level of post-surgical depression’ as well as anxietyand regret. The link to fi nding a facial surgeon goes straight to the website ofwell-known US cosmetic surgeon, Dr Jeff rey Spiegel, who has added FFS tohis usual array of facial cosmetic surgeries aimed at women (drspiegel, n.d.).Spiegel defi nes facial feminisation surgery as ‘procedures that provide patientswith the face they should have been born with’ and the goal is ‘to provideyou with all of the major and subtle features that support your true gen-der’. Cheaper access to FFS is off ered in Thailand, where a thriving medicaltourism industry off ers all forms of surgery connected with transgenderism(ThaiMed, n.d.). The range of surgeries that male-bodied transgenders canembark upon is very extensive and provides scope for those addicted to the surgeries and their eff ects to pursue these dangerous and invasive proceduresfor many years, providing greater profi ts for the industry. The harms associ-ated with the surgery are compounded for those who change their minds andare unable to recover their health and physical functions.Transgender regretsThe inconvenient fact that persons who have been on hormone regimes orhad sex-reassignment surgery, and even gained new legal status as membersof the opposite sex, can change their minds and experience regret is fi ercelydenied by transgender activists, and ignored by the medical professionalsinvolved in transgendering, because it undermines the credibility of the prac-tice. It is avoided by lawmakers, too, who prefer the fi ction that none ofthose who gain gender recognition certifi cates in the UK, for example, willchange their minds (Jeff reys, 2008 ). Opponents of the 2004 legislation thatenabled transgenders in the UK to officially change their sex sought to getamendments that would allow persons who changed their minds to go backbefore the panel and get recertifi cated. They also asked what would happento persons who changed their minds more than once and whether the legis-lation would be able to accommodate them. The government rejected thesearguments as not being serious, but, in fact, regret is a very harmful eff ect oftransgender treatment. Persons who regret, if they have spent years on hor-mones or have gone so far as surgical treatment, will have experienced someirreversible physical harms such as sterilisation. They are also likely to haveexperienced social harms such as isolation from family and from relationships,factors commonly given as reasons for wanting to de-transition (return to livein original sex). The phenomenon of regret undermines the idea that thereexists a particular kind of person who is genuinely and essentially transgenderand can be identifi ed accurately by psychiatrists. It is radically destabilising tothe transgender project.The survivors’ movementNonetheless, in the last decade, as the volume of transgender surgeries hasincreased, there has been a concomitant increase in the cases of regret, inwhich persons who transitioned have argued that they were misdiagnosedand some have sought to have surgery to reverse their sex reassignment.Those who regret their transitioning might also be described as ‘survivors’of the harmful practices directed at them by the medical profession, and theterms will be used interchangeably here. The phenomenon of transgenderregrets has been recognised in sections of the therapeutic community. AzHakeem runs a therapy group at London’s Portman Clinic that includes bothmen who aspire to transition and those who regret having transitioned, cat-egories of persons who were previously kept separate, but who have usefulthings to say to each other:The preoperative group was characterised by hope and optimism, attimes extending to a gender euphoria, whereas the postoperative groupwas characterised by despair, hopelessness and regret, mainly becausethe group members were individuals who wished they had not hadsurgery.(Hakeem, 2012 : 20)There is presently some evidence that a survivors’ movement is under wayand is developing a political critique of the practice. It off ers support to thosewho are considering transition but are not sure, and to those who have doubtsabout their choice. Until the last couple of years, there were only two web-sites dedicated to survivors. One is that of Walt Heyer, a postoperative male-bodied transgender in the United States, who has de-transitioned and nowbelieves that his surgery and all SRS are mistaken (Heyer, n.d.). Dissatisfi edpost SRS male-bodied transgenders have told their stories on the website,and one states that he realised that ‘what he needed was simple psychother-apy, not sex change surgery’. The other is the website Gendermenders, setup from Melbourne, Australia, which criticises the idea of transgenderismand all forms of treatment (Gender Menders, n.d.). More recently, however,the setting-up of resources for regretters has accelerated. Atlas Strawberrieswas established in 2012. Its founders, two people who say they have ‘de-transitioned’, explain that it is ‘meant to be a place where de-transitionerscan anonymously share day to day frustrations and moments of lonelinessand heartbreak’. They set up the site to provide ‘solidarity’ to those seekingto de-transition as they ‘know how emotionally, physically, and psychologic-ally devastating it can be’ (Atlas Strawberries, 2012 ). In 2013 a new onlineresource for regretters was opened up called NoGoingBack, which describesitself as ‘a group for people who spent time transitioning medically, sociallyand/or physically to another gender … And then chose to stop transitioningand/or stop ID’ing as transgender/transsexual’ (NoGoingBack, 2013 ). Theproliferation of these resources indicates a watershed in the developmentof the phenomenon of transgenderism. It is no longer possible to suggestwith much credibility that physical treatments are a ‘cure’ and the practiceis facing a considerable challenge to its validity from the incipient survivors’movement.Two of those involved in the online regretters/survivors’ movement wereinterviewed for this book, a man and a woman. They were chosen becausethey do not just consider that they were misdiagnosed but have developed a specifi c, critical politics that challenges the practice of transgenderismaltogether. They both have an active online presence in which they voicetheir critique and speak out with the hope of enabling others to escape theharms associated with transition. They can be seen as emblematic of a newconsciousness and a new politics that may form the germ of a movement ofresistance by survivors. They are also very brave because the backlash againstthem from transgender activists can be extremely abusive. Walt Heyer is amember of an older generation of male-bodied transgenders and had quite aclassic profi le of a heterosexual male cross-dresser before he went on to hor-mones and SRS. He was infl uenced by publicity surrounding the ChristineJorgensen case in the 1950s to consider taking such a step, but has de-tran-sitioned and now campaigns against the practice of SRS. Heyer says thatthe Harry Benjamin Standards of Care were not followed in his case, eventhough he was treated by one of the doctors who drew them up. This doctorapproved him for surgery after a forty-fi ve minute consultation, and presentlyin the United States, he says, persons seeking to transgender can just walkinto ‘some doctor’s office and tell him, you know, I want some hormones andyou pay him the money and the guy gives you hormones, you don’t haveto have counselling’. In his opinion it is all about the money; ‘the questionthey ask is do you have the money? That’s your counselling, do you have themoney?’ He explains that, years later, he consulted several psychiatrists whoall told him that he has, in fact, a dissociative disorder. Heyer de-transitionedbecause he regretted not so much the surgery, but its consequences, includingalienation of his children, loss of employment, homelessness. He now consid-ers that ‘it’s impossible for someone to change genders … you can make itappear as though a change was made but there is actually no way to changesomeone’s gender’. He says he ‘enjoyed being a female’ mainly because of thepleasures of shopping for and wearing clothing associated with women, butknew he ‘wasn’t a female’.Heyer, like all those who go public about regretting their transition, fi ndshimself the object of considerable abuse and harassment from transgenderactivists. He excoriates the transgender activist movement for the way inwhich they police other transgenders who de-transition and dare not gopublic for fear of reprisals: ‘I hate the fact that they have gained so muchpower.’ He says he hopes that ‘someone will fi nally drive a nail in this bigballoon and explode it’, but presently there are too few persons preparedto stand up to the bullying that being critical entails, and he is ‘probablyone of the few that has a website and they send me nasty stuff all the time’.Heyer’s ideas are available at length in his books Paper Genders ( 2011 ), and SexChange – It’s Suicide ( 2013 ).The other interviewee is Heath Russell, a young US lesbian who wasattracted to the idea of transitioning in her teens as a result of the considerablemedia publicity and general public promotion of female-bodied transgender-ism in recent years. Heath developed the idea of transitioning as a result ofbeing bullied for not fi tting into gender stereotypes as a girl child, and fromabsorbing the idea that it was possible to change sex from television talk shows.At sixteen she ‘came out’ about her attraction to women and received verynegative reactions from her mother in particular. Like Heyer, she describesa perfunctoriness about the consultation process with a psychiatrist that ledto her being prescribed hormones. Her suggestion that she was transgenderwas ‘simply accepted’, and the fact that she was a lesbian not considered rele-vant. Members of the transgender community told her to stay away fromany therapists who questioned her transition, on the grounds that they were‘transphobic’. The complete acceptance of the idea of transgenderism amongmedical professionals meant that she was given no opportunity for ambiva-lence about the decision. She says that she had doubts about whether she wasreally a ‘man’ throughout the two years that she was using hormones.She thinks that the absence of ‘lesbian role models’ and a ‘proud womanloving culture’ made her susceptible to the idea that she should transgender.It was only when she came across Internet resources created by proud les-bian women, who sought to halt the movement of young lesbians towardstransgenderism, that she gradually began to change her mind about the stepsshe was taking. She gained the confi dence to be a lesbian who eschewedfemininity, rather than thinking she must really be a man. Another reason forde-transitioning was that the hormones were causing havoc with her body’snatural systems. She began to experience heart palpitations that she had neverexperienced before, and an elevated pulse rate. She became more interestedin information about the harmful eff ects that hormones could have, such asincreased cancer risks and polycystic ovary syndrome, and decided to de-transition by quitting hormones ‘cold turkey’, which is not a recommendedcourse. Some of the eff ects of the hormones reversed and some remained.She still has facial hair, which creates problems for her when out in public,and her driver’s licence continues to say that she is a man, which could causeher problems if intercepted, as she says, in the women’s locker rooms.Russell developed what she describes as a radical lesbian feminist analysisof transgenderism, which helped her in understanding her own experienceand in continuing to challenge the practice in her online activism. Her pos-ition is that ‘there is no such thing as the wrong body’ and she considers thatqueer theory messed with the minds of many young lesbians, making themsusceptible to this erroneous idea. She now agrees with social constructionistperspectives on homosexuality and on gender roles, which posit that peopleare not born to be homosexual but, rather, can choose to be so, and consid-ers that the gender non-conformity regularly found among homosexuals isconstructed from their rebellious impulses. Like Walt Heyer, Russell has been subjected to attacks because of goingpublic as a de-transitioner. Her ‘coming out’, as she calls it, has included atelevision interview in which she eloquently argues against the practice oftransgenderism, using examples from her own experience (Russell, 2013 ). Theworst insults came from male-bodied transgenders, and she was called ‘a failedmale’, a ‘jackass’, and a ‘dickrag’ and received death threats and rape threats.Female-bodied transgenders, on the other hand, just told her she should takeresponsibility for her decisions and that she was undermining the medicalunderstanding of transgenderism. Her mother and father are having difficul-ties changing their pronoun use once more and her mother has difficultyaccepting that, rather than being a man, her daughter is actually a lesbian.In response to this challenge to the legitimacy of the practice, some trans-gender activists and commentators have shown considerable anger and hos-tility towards those who have gone public with their regret. The acrimonyhas been quite fi erce and may make those transgenders who have regretsfearful of being open about them. A form of policing is going on within thetransgender community in an attempt to shore up the leaky structure of thepractice. One Australian regretter, who has been the object of this policing,is Alan Finch. He questioned his identity during adolescence, wonderingwhether he was homosexual or had been born in the wrong body, and inhis twenties went through full sex-reassignment treatment including surgery.By 2004 Finch had decided that he was a man living without a penis andthat he would not attempt to have further genital surgery although at thetime he was considering having the constructed vagina removed as the skinhad become ‘scuff ed and crusty’. Finch concluded, ‘I can’t see much point inmutilating my body anymore’ (Batty, 2004 ). Finch has campaigned againstwhat he calls the ‘sex change industry’, and believes that all treatment shouldcease. He argues thattranssexualism was invented by psychiatrists … Their language is illu-sory. You fundamentally can’t change sex … the surgery doesn’t alteryou genetically. It’s genital mutilation. My ‘vagina’ was just the bag ofmy scrotum. It’s like a pouch, like a kangaroo. What’s scary is you stillfeel like you have a penis when you’re sexually aroused. It’s like phan-tom limb syndrome. It’s all been a terrible misadventure. I’ve neverbeen a woman, just Alan … The analogy I use about giving surgery tosomeone desperate to change sex is it’s a bit like off ering liposuctionto an anorexic.(Batty, 2004 )Finch sued the only Australian gender identity clinic, at Melbourne’s MonashMedical Centre, for misdiagnosis. Commentators from the transgendercommunity were verbally abusive towards Finch for his desertion of the causeon the Susan’s.org discussion forum, where ‘Dennis’ comments on Finch’s legal case against the Monash clinic, ‘this is a joke! people like (him) shouldn’tbe entitled to anything’, ‘I hope he loses’, and calls him a ‘media whore’(Susan’s.org, Dennis, 2007 ). Another commenter, ‘Melissa’, says, ‘People like this make me sick … I’m sorry, people who regret transitioning should beshot. They are a waste of oxygen’, and ‘Helen W’ says that Finch should be‘laughed out of the courtroom’, and calls him an ‘arch manipulator’ (ibid.).They reject the idea that regretters really exist and say they do not knowof any.Considering the huge distress and social and personal disadvantage theregretters/survivors suff er, their online detractors can seem remarkablycruel. The case of seventy-fi ve-year-old Gary Norton of the UK illustratesthis. He had SRS twenty-three years ago, felt uncertain even while on theoperating table and is now living as a man (Strange, 2012 ). He wants rep-arative surgery on the National Health Service, but has been told there isno funding for reversals. Norton knew the sex change was a mistake ‘whenshe grew sick of doing her hair and makeup and continued to be attractedto straight women’. He has been particularly distressed that his childrenhave wanted no contact with him since the SRS and he is lonely becausewomen do not want relationships with him. He relates that he went to hisdoctor about depression after being made redundant, and, on saying thathe was a cross-dresser, was advised to start taking hormones. After SRS hefound being a woman too ‘fussy and time consuming’; he realised that he‘hadn’t wanted to be a woman – I just liked dressing up as one from time totime for a thrill and it should never have gone any further. It was devastat-ing. I was a man trapped in a woman’s body and I was stuck with it’ (ibid.).Norton’s story, like that of Alan Finch, was not treated with any sympathyin the transgender online community. ‘Samantha Cool Beans’, in a discus-sion of his case on the website, Angels: supporting the TG Community,commented, ‘For every one of these type of people/stories it makes 1000sof us look like crazy nutjobs!’ (Angelsforum, 2012 ). Among many criticalposts, Shantel, in a discussion at Susan’s.org, comments, ‘What an insipid moron!’ (Susan’s.org, 2012 ).The complaints of regretters have instigated investigations of clinics andmedical personnel involved in the transgender industry in the UK as well asin Australia. In the UK they have centred upon the best known psychiatristin the UK transgender industry, Dr Russell Reid and the female-bodiedtransgender who took over Reid’s private gender clinic, Dr Richard Curtis,Reid became the subject of an inquiry by the General Medical Council(GMC) after complaints from four doctors at the public Charing CrossGender Identity Clinic, on behalf of patients who said they had been rushed into hormone and surgical treatment against the best practice guidelines, theHarry Benjamin Standards of Care (Batty, 2007a ). The standards recommendthat patients should not be put on hormones within three months of attend-ing a clinic, and that they should not be operated upon unless they had donethe ‘real life test’ of living as if they were women for twelve months. Reid’sprevious notoriety stemmed from his involvement in a 2000 Horizon investi-gation of the phenomenon of Amputee Identity Disorder, now more usuallycalled Body Identity Integrity Disorder (BIID) ( Horizon , 2000 ). It transpiredthat Reid was involved in referring two men to a surgeon, Robert Smith, ina Scottish hospital to have unwanted, healthy legs amputated. Reid explainedthat he considered that BIID and gender identity disorder were similar, andthat both could usefully be treated by surgery to remove the off ending bodyparts.In the 2007 case, the GMC found Reid guilty of serious professional mis-conduct (Batty, 2007b ). Two patients who testifi ed before the panel consid-ered that they had been misdiagnosed. One, a woman who thought that shewas transsexual because she was suff ering from manic depression, narrowlyavoided a mastectomy. She testifi ed that during her illness she had believedthat she was Jesus and that a sex change would help her to become him (Batty,b ). After treatment for her manic depression she had no desire to changesex. Another, a convicted paedophile, had a sex change but wanted surgery toallow him to return to living as a man. The remaining three patients remainedin their reassigned sex but considered that they did not receive a sufficientstandard of care from Reid.Russell Reid’s gender clinic was taken over by the female-bodied trans-gender, Dr Richard Curtis, who, like Reid, was being investigated formisconduct in 2013. A 2005 news item reported that Curtis was the fi rsttransgender person to become a general practitioner in the UK (Day, 2005 ).Curtis decided in adulthood that she was really a gay man after several rela-tionships with men as a woman. Her understanding of gender was very con-stricting and traditional: ‘I’ve never wanted children, or a white wedding likemost women dream of, or a man to take care of me. Instead, you were morelikely to fi nd me fi tting a kitchen or tiling the bathroom’ (ibid.). Curtis wasinvestigated in 2013 after three patient complaints (Batty, 2013 ). The allega-tions are similar to those in Reid’s case, such as the commencement of hor-mone treatment without referring patients for a second opinion and beforethey had undergone counselling, administering hormone treatment at fi rstappointments, and referring for surgery before the twelve months real lifetest was completed. One woman complains that she was inappropriately pre-scribed sex-changing hormones and underwent a double mastectomy beforeshe changed her mind. Curtis is also accused of administering hormones tosixteen-year-old patients without an adequate assessment.There is increasing evidence to suggest that treatment aimed at physic-ally changing the bodies of men and women who seek to transgender isineff ective in improving physical and mental health and social functioning.Nonetheless, large tracts of the medical profession, including many psychia-trists and psychotherapists as well as endocrinologists and surgeons, colludewith the mental health problems of those who come to them seeking tochange their sex, and do them harm. This is despite the fact that diagnosingthe ‘real’ transgender is becoming more and more fraught, and the very ideaof diagnosis is being challenged by some transgender activists on the groundsthat hormones and surgery should be seen as a matter of choice and cosmeticalteration.The inability of many, if not most, of those in the medical profession toaccept that physical treatments of transgenderism should be considered pro-fessional misconduct is likely to refl ect several realities. One is the amountof money to be made, particularly by the pharmaceutical industry, whichneeds a replacement for the failed ambition of placing the majority of olderwomen on HRT. Another is the antiquated belief by this most patriarchal ofprofessions that essential gender does exist and that when a man says he isa woman this should be immediately respected. If gender exists, then it canmysteriously, they believe, be misplaced. Another is likely to be fear of beingaccused of transphobia and fi nding their reputations in tatters, as transgenderactivists go after anyone critical of the practice online. But critical voices doseem to be increasing in number and are likely, at length, to reach the criticalmass needed to challenge this harmful practice. As more and more of thosewho have been transgendered seek help to de-transition and some have thecourage to speak out, the quackery of the practice should become moreapparent to those who treat them.The phenomenon of transgenderism is generally written about as if thosewho transition are engaged in an individual heroic quest and the persons whosurround them – partners, wives, girlfriends, mothers, children, workmates –are mentioned only to stress the importance of their giving unqualifi ed sup-port. In fact transgenderism infl icts serious harms on the family membersof transgenders. Though both men and women engage in transgenderism,family members who suff er most are likely to be women in both cases: wives,partners and mothers. There is no mention of male partners in the literature,which suggests that they are very rare. There is very little research literatureon this aspect of the transgender phenomenon and accounts written by wives,as well as an interview with a woman partner of a man who has transitioned,will be used to fi nd out how the lives of these women are aff ected. Thewives of men who transgender, the partners of lesbians who transgender, andthe mothers in both cases, describe similar experiences. These include psy-chological distress, grief and loss, social exclusion, humiliation and fi nancialproblems. This chapter will focus on the wives, female partners and mothersof men who decide to change their sex.Cross-dressing and transgenderismThe husbands who make the decision to change sex are likely to have a his-tory of cross-dressing. Increasingly, as a result of the greater visibility of thepossibilities of transgenderism online and in the media generally, men withfemale partners who would once simply have been occasional cross-dressersare transitioning (Lawrence, 2007 ). As a result, there is no longer any clear dis-tinction between the two practices of cross-dressing and transsexualism, withboth now usually being placed under the same umbrella term, transgenderism. As Virginia Erhardt comments in the introduction to her collection of nar-ratives by the wives of ‘cross-dressers and transsexuals’, these practices, whichcannot be clearly distinguished ‘dilemmas of gender identity, rather than form-ing discrete categories, fall on a continuum’ (Erhardt, 2007 : 13). The Erhardtcollection begins with the stories of wives whose husbands have not gonefurther than occasional cross-dressing, and end with those of the wives of menwho have gone on to transgender. The clear similarities between the harms tothe wives and partners in all cases support the idea that a similar phenomenonis being described. The cruel problem for the wives of cross-dressers is thatthey have to live with the knowledge that at some point their partners maystart to live as that which they imagine to be ‘women’ full-time, and this canput them into a state of hyperawareness and stress (Erhardt, 2007 ).Cross-dressers who are exposed to transgender activism through theonline transgender community are likely to develop the desire to go fur-ther than would once have been the case. Helen Boyd, who has writtentwo books on cross-dressing and speaks on a lecture circuit with her hus-band, Betty, explains how this can happen. She says that after her book MyHusband Betty was published, the couple were immediately taken up by thetransgender movement and Betty started to move towards the possibility oftransition: ‘We’ve realized since that even her exploration of her female sidewas a bit like a Pandora’s box, which once opened cannot be closed’ (Boyd, : 9). Boyd describes her situation thus: ‘[l]iving with someone who looksas if she’s transitioning and seems to want to transition but isn’t transitioningis a little like living with post-traumatic stress disorder, feeling as if every bitof you is hair-triggered, waiting for the announcement, waiting for the crisis’(Boyd, 2007 : 251). Being in a marriage that ‘poses that “fi ght or fl ight” ques-tion every day’, she says, is not conducive to long-term happiness.Heroes of their own livesThe majority of the literature on transgenderism represents the process oftransition as an epic adventure in which individuals seek to fi nd themselves(Lev, 2004 ). Unfortunately, the signifi cant others, partners, wives and mothersof transgenders suff er the negative impact of these adventures. The transgen-ders may be the heroes of their own lives, but the women they leave behindmay not feel so positive. Christine Benvenuto characterises the behaviour ofher husband as resembling a heroic quest: ‘he sees his life as an epic tale ofliberation akin to the Passover story’ (Benvenuto, 2012a : 22). Her memoirof life with her transgender husband, Sex Changes , was met by a campaignled by her ex-husband to traduce and silence her in 2012. To his ‘admiringfans’, she says he is a ‘martyr, a patron saint, Our Lady of Gender Variance.In the Valley of the Politically Correct, he expected approval – and he got it’ (Benvenuto, 2012a : 237). When he gave a talk at her synagogue, he ‘told ahero’s tale’ (Benvenuto, 2012a : 259). The wife’s role in relation to the hero isto be a handmaiden, not a critic or an obstacle.There is a new clinical literature developing, however, in which thereis recognition of the severely harmful eff ects of men’s transitioning behav-iour on their female partners. Until quite recently, the literature on trans-genderism has excluded the experience of partners; it has been ‘TI-centric’,TI meaning transgender identifi ed, according to the family and transgendertherapists, Donna Chapman and Benjamin Caldwell (Chapman and Caldwell, : 37). But the partners and family members of transgenders cannot avoidbeing aff ected, as ‘TI people do not just come out to themselves. They can-not remain closeted if they wish to actualize their gendered sense of self ’(Chapman and Caldwell, 2012 : 39). The families have ‘no option’ but to ‘copewith it whether they like it or not, and they have been considered extraneousto the process of evaluation and treatment of the TI partner. Their needs havebeen marginalised’ (ibid.). In fact, the point of coming out as a transgenderfor a cross-dressing man would be entirely lost if there was not an audience,and family members are likely to be required to form the audience,however unwilling they may be. The majority of therapists who work withtransgenders, some of whom have created niche practices from such treat-ment, adopt the perspective of their transgender clients that they are heroes,ignoring the harms infl icted on partners which might undermine the script.As Lisa Chase puts it, physicians and insurance companies like to think thattransition is curative for transgenders and ‘[t]he idea of partners speakingout by acknowledging a need for support was too much of a risk and mayhave jeopardized the trans’ ability to transition’, by undermining their healthinsurance claims perhaps (Chase, 2011 : 430).Arlene Lev is a therapist who takes the ‘heroic quest’ perspective, andhas little sympathy for wives and women partners who might be suff ering.Her book Transgender Emergence ( 2004 ) purports to provide a template forproviding therapy to transgenders and their families. Lev is relentlessly posi-tive about the way in which partners could gain by supporting transgenders.She explains that, traditionally, therapists expected the man to leave his wife,‘never looking at the situation from the opposite angle and asking whetherthe spouse is able to grow and change enough to support her husband’s cross-gender “needs”’ (Lev, 2004 : 16). The ‘needs’ of the women partners are notrecognised here. She encourages those treating the partners to see that ‘havinga partner who is transgendered might be fascinating, exciting, or desirable’(Lev, 2004 : 17). The wives and partners who write about their experience,however, do not support this positive view at all (Benvenuto, 2012a ; Erhardt, ), but struggle to survive the stress and the crumbling of everything theyhold dear. Virginia Erhardt, another therapist who specialises in therapy with trans-genders, is scarcely more sympathetic towards the wives than Lev. Erhardtcreated her collection of wives’ stories because of her recognition that wivesneeded support: ‘natal female partners are so groomed to pay attention totheir husbands’ needs in this situation … that they often lose their own voices’(Erhardt, 2007 : 2). But she is fi rmly wedded to the transgender ideology thatthe husbands simply cannot help themselves and she teaches that men’s cross-dressing practices are nothing to do with choice or lifestyle: ‘It is extremelyimportant for a woman to remember that being a person of transgenderexperience is involuntary. I have heard women who leave insist on believingthat their partner was frivolously choosing a “transgender lifestyle”’ (Erhardt, : 6). The wives in the collection are those who support and stay withtheir husbands, but their stories are a useful source material for this chapterbecause they detail the very serious stresses that they experience.The small minority of therapists who are beginning to acknowledge theharm to wives, on the other hand, consider it to be very serious. Chapman andCaldwell call this harm ‘attachment injury’, which is a specifi c type of eventthat involves the ‘violation of trust or betrayal coupled with the inaccessibil-ity of the partner’ (Chapman and Caldwell, 2012 : 44). They explain that thepartner of someone who transgenders experiences a role and identity changethat is ‘unplanned and uncontrolled’ (Chapman and Caldwell, : 37),whereas their partner is embarking on a long planned and anticipated quest.In response to the transition, the partners left behind may suff er in ways that‘meet defi nitions of trauma’ (Chapman and Caldwell, 2012 : 43). Attachmentinjuries, they explain, ‘behave much like PTSD injuries in that they re-emergein the form of traumatic fl ashback, avoidance, hyper-vigilance, and numbingand are overwhelming’ (Chapman and Caldwell, 2012 : 45).The self-centredness of transgendersOne signifi cant source of harm to wives is the self-centredness of transgen-ders. Wives and partners suff er because the transgenders behave as if onlytheir quest has importance, and do not take the distress they are causingseriously, or are puzzled by it. Chapman and Caldwell say that it is difficultfor transgenders to hear about injury to partners because ‘inherent in TI pro-cessing is a profound self-centredness’ (Chapman and Caldwell, 2012 : 47).Helen Boyd says that a friend calls this behaviour ‘male autism’ (Boyd, 2007 :). A wife in the Erhardt collection makes a similar point about the self-centredness of transgender husbands: ‘From the beginning of the transition,it was all about Bobbi’s dreams, wants, and needs’ (Erhardt, 2007 : 120). Themen’s transgenderism is a masculine prerogative, and not to be trammelledwith extraneous concerns. The literature on male abusers of female partners in other settings suggests that they demonstrate a similar lack of empathy(Harne, 2011 ).The self-centredness of male-bodied transgenders and their lack ofempathy are refl ected in the way that they choose to ‘come out’ to theirwives. The majority of women interviewed by Erhardt ( 2007 ) did not knowabout their partners’ cross-dressing when they married. They found out aftermarriage, and, not uncommonly, twenty or more years into the marriage. Insome cases, such as that of Christine Benvenuto, the husband may have men-tioned the cross-dressing early in the marriage on a couple of occasions, butthe wife was unlikely to take this seriously (Benvenuto, 2012a ). As Benvenutoexplains, she could not know that this might refer to an activity that wouldescalate and could result in transgenderism rather than being an occasionalhobby. The transgender husbands did not necessarily consider their wives’feelings when they decided to reveal their proclivity.The tactic of appearing ‘dressed’ before an unsuspecting and severelyshocked partner seems, from numerous accounts by wives, to be common.It was the experience of the founder of a website set up specifi cally tosupport women who ‘struggled’ with having husbands who cross-dressed,and she expresses poignantly the distress she felt (Crossdresserswives.com,n.d.a). She was having a supposedly romantic New Year’s Eve dinner, whenher husband said he had something to tell her but needed to go upstairsbecause it was easier to show rather than tell. After ten minutes heappeared ‘dressed’.Finally, he came down the extravagant, sweeping staircase wearinghis long, red, silk, otherwise unassuming robe. He sat next to me andsilently opened his robe. Immediately I stopped breathing – no oxygencoming in or out. I was paralyzed. Something in his eyes made me real-ize this was no joke. He was dead-ass serious. While wearing what wassupposed to be my black, silk stockings and matching black lace garterbelt, items which he had emphatically insisted I needed, I tried so hardto compassionately understand as the man I loved disclosed his longtime wish to try on lingerie. Then he wanted to make love.(Crossdresserswives.com, n.d.a)She allowed what she called the ‘sex game’ to take place because she ‘lovedhim enough to help him live out this bizarre fetish’ but found the experi-ence ‘shocking, disturbing, poignant, joyless and dismal’. While he said it wasthe ‘best sex he had ever had’, for her it was ‘by far the worst, exacerbated,frightening sexual experience for me’ and reminded her of being date rapedat the age of eighteen, ‘the only other time I felt so powerless’. In both casesthese ‘unwelcomed sexualized acts’ ‘traumatized’ her, because they were ‘acts of abomination, betrayals that left me feeling permanently (though silently)horrifi ed, violated and soiled’ (Crossdresserswives.com, n.d.a).The wives of transgenders typically progress through a range of emotionswhen they discover their husbands’ cross-dressing. Initial reactions range frombewilderment and disbelief to shock and then embarrassment at the thoughtof others fi nding out (Erhardt, 2007 ). In Erhardt’s collection, women expe-rienced feelings of being violated, and of revulsion (ibid.). One wife wasrevolted by the fact that her husband had shaved his body hair and she couldnot relate to his hairlessness, and another said she felt physically sick. Otherreactions included a deep sense of loneliness and feelings of not being goodenough, sleeplessness and frequent crying, and a feeling of sexual rejectionthat led to feelings of sexual inadequacy (Buxton, 2006 ). One woman inErhardt’s study, after a sleepless night, decided that she would commit suicide,but in the end did not do so. The overwhelming and universal reaction fromwomen who did not know at the time of their marriage that their husbandwas a cross-dresser, was betrayal at the deception and loss of trust (ibid.). Thepartner of a transgender who was interviewed for this chapter explained howdismissive her husband was of the pain he was causing her:It was as if I had fallen down the rabbit hole. He brushed off my ques-tions with ‘Hey, chill. You always make such a big deal of everything –nobody can predict the future’. I felt that my fear and distress was beingminimised and dismissed. I felt totally alone.Issues of trustSome accounts suggest that the intensity of the distress experienced by wivesand partners is exacerbated by the timing of the disclosure. Women whoknew about their husbands’ cross-dressing prior to marrying them, or veryearly in the marriage, could be more accepting of the behaviour, but shockedwhen it progressed to the stage where the men started to question their bio-logical sex and identify as transgendered, rather than as cross-dressers (Erhardt, ). Other research, however, indicates that it did not matter at what stagehusbands revealed their cross-dressing; the partners still felt deceived, unableto trust and unable to believe in their partner’s word or their own judgement(Buxton, 2006 ). Wives who were not told before marriage refused to accepttheir husbands’ explanation that they did not disclose their ‘secret’ for fear ofrejection. They thought the marriage had been ‘a joke based on dishonesty’(Erhardt, 2007 : 34). One woman insisted that she had the right to decidewhether or not she wanted to be married to a cross-dresser and ‘that decisionshould not have been made for me’ (Erhardt, 2007 : 51). Christine Benvenutodescribes the profound sense of loss she experienced. The decades she had been with her husband suddenly seemed to have been a lie and she lost theshared memories:You lose your partner and your access to his memories … He tellsyou that he has been posing as your partner, a fi ctitious character ofhis own and perhaps your invention throughout your relationship. Tellsyou every memory you’ve stored needs to be rewritten.(Benvenuto, 2012a : 84)Eff ectively, she says, Tracey told her that the ‘past twenty-odd years of my lifehad not actually happened’ (Benvenuto, 2012a : 88).The betrayal of trust can extend to the husband’s behaviour towards hischildren. Benvenuto explains that her husband used her young children ascharacters in his performance and sought to conceal this from her: ‘My chil-dren’s experience of Tracey’s transformation and the break-up of our marriageis hands down the ugliest and most painful aspect of this story’ (Benvenuto,a : 119). He ‘dressed’ in front of his toddler child and when she made thisknown to her mother, he said he had not thought her capable of speakingabout it (Benvenuto, 2012a : 80). When his eight-year-old daughter went tovisit her father, he enrolled her in his practice as she explained to her mother,‘When I go to Daddy’s he gives me his shoes and jewelry to try on. I do hishair. Sometimes we put on makeup’ (Benvenuto, 2012a : 142). Eventually sherefused to visit, refused to be alone with him and said she was afraid of him.He fl ew into rages, she said, if she refused to play dress-up: ‘“He told me I hadto show him how to be a girl! … He said he’d never gotten to be a girl, sohe wanted to experience what it was like through me!”’ (Benvenuto, 2012a :). Benvenuto’s husband, by her account, placed his children’s interestssecond to his own pleasures.Psychological violenceThe behaviour of transgender husbands can go beyond a lack of empathywith their partners’ suff ering and become more abusive. In ChristineBenvenuto’s case, one form of abuse was the accusation that she was men-tally unstable: ‘“You’re sick,” Tracey told me when I protested against anyaspect of his behavior. “You’re mentally ill. No one in the world thinks theway you do. Everyone else thinks what I’m doing is great”’ (Benvenuto,a : 85). He also engaged in other forms of bullying and threats and a new‘Tracey’ emerged, she says, the one who ‘intimidated and threatened, wholaid down the law and expected me to abide by it. If Tracey was becominga woman, he had never seemed so male – a tyrannical bully he had neverbeen in our marriage’ (Benvenuto, 2012a : 70). The threats issued to gain her compliance included the statement that he would take the three childrenfrom her if she left him. One wife in the Erhardt collection took her hus-band back to live with her after he had had an emotional breakdown andbeen hospitalised twice. He (called ‘she’ in this account) then proceeded toengage in psychological violence towards her through personal insults: ‘InMay, she began telling me all the things I do to hurt her. She also said that Ismell bad, even right after a bath, and that it doesn’t feel good when I touchher’ (Erhardt, 2007 : 120).In some cases the husbands may not set out to cause hurt but their behav-iour causes severe distress nonetheless. One problem experienced by thewives of cross-dressers, for instance, is that when their husbands come outas ‘women’ they are required to go into the closet. In the Erhardt collectionseveral wives use precisely this metaphor with one wife saying about herselfand her daughter, ‘Mostly I resent his having put us into the closet’ (Erhardt, : 126). They fi nd themselves unable to access support because they areexpected to go out with their husband ‘en femme’, for instance, althoughnot allowed to reveal what is happening, to their friends and family. Anotherproblem that distresses wives is the feeling that their husbands want to bethem in a parasitic way, to take over their persona. As one wife puts this, ‘Attimes it seems as though Jane wants to merge with me, and I feel engulfed’(Erhardt, 2007 : 165). Benvenuto explained this problem in a similar way:‘he didn’t want to be with me, he wanted to be me’ (Benvenuto, 2012a : 43).Another wife explained,There are ‘turf ’ issues: sharing not only my clothes and ‘my’ kitchen buteven my name and gender. It took me over a year to appreciate what asweet gesture it was that Diane saw me as her model of a woman andeven incorporated my name into hers: Dick + Anne + Diane.(Erhardt, 2007 : 197)Such parasitism may cause great distress.The female partner that we interviewed for this chapter calls the way inwhich transgenders can accuse their wives of madness, when they notice andobject to problematic behaviour, ‘gaslighting’. She says, ‘I think the constantonline shenanigans, lying, secrets and gaslighting (“you are mad”, “you areimagining stuff ”, “it’s you that has a problem”) is a form of psychologicalviolence.’ She says that after ‘the fourth or fi fth cycle of lies, being found out,more lies, more gaslighting and more lies, I snapped’ and began to fi nd him‘physically and emotionally repulsive’, and had to build ‘a shell around me tosurvive’. She says that ‘in many ways’ she identifi es with ‘women in “regular”abusive relationships’ and believes that she has PTSD: ‘I fi nd social situationsexcruciating most days. I have very few friends now.’ After suff ering extreme social isolation and anxiety it was feminism that gave her the tools to redis-cover her strength:I have re-discovered feminism through the radical feminist blogs andbooks I have been encouraged to read by women I have met online,and now (in a few cases) in ‘real life’. What a relief it is to know that Iam not ‘mad’.She is pleased that there are now words for what she is going through, ‘psy-chological violence’, and that this form of ‘oppression’ has been named. Inthis straightforward way, feminist understandings can comfort and supportwomen who have experienced such abuse. Those feminists who publiclysupport the practice of transgenderism could be seen as guilty of abandoningthe wives, who are left high and dry. The feminist project should be to sup-port women who are abused by men, rather than the men who are respon-sible for the abuse, otherwise men’s transgender behaviour can split womenand feminists from each other.The hijacking of women’s livesWhen men come out as cross-dressers or transgender the lives of their wivesare likely to be hijacked. However they had once thought they would spendtheir lives, they will, if they seek to stay with these men, fi nd that the prioritiescreated by the men’s particular sexual interest will take over their time, energyand fi nancial resources. The wives of men who cross-dress, as well as those whogo on to transgender on a more permanent basis, become very much boundup with their husbands’ practice. One wife of a cross-dresser comments, ‘I reallydon’t want this CDing (cross-dressing) to overtake my life and it seems like ithas – it’s become much more central than I want it to be’ (Erhardt, 2007 : 55).Another wife says she often just does not feel like playing dress-up games butfeels under pressure: ‘Even today when I’m tired, hungry, or just emotionallyworn out and Lucy wants to emerge, my reaction is “no”’ (Erhardt, 2007 : 59).The husbands frequently take their wives as their models and the wivesacquire a new form of housework in facilitating their husbands’ ‘woman-hood’. It is their wives’ clothes that the men often wear and they require theirwives to transform them into women. As one wife explains,I tried to teach Tommy to do his own makeup, but it was hopeless. Healways made up his eyes too dark, so he looked French. I decided that Iwould just do all the makeup. I also tried teaching Tommy how to walkin a more feminine way, but it didn’t work; he still walked like a guy.(Erhardt, 2007 : 74) Such work is particularly important if the husband is able to persuade hiswife to go out in public with him, because it is more humiliating if his imita-tion of a woman is particularly woeful. Shopping is another chore: ‘We shoptogether. I’ve helped him with makeup. He dresses in my presence. I accept,support, and even encourage’ (Erhardt, 2007 : 90).If wives become involved with the transgender support organisations thattheir husbands join, then they acquire a whole new range of responsibilitiesand work. One wife explains that she and her husband ‘became very involvedwith support groups. Diana went on to become a founder of a support groupin our area, and I became an activist for signifi cant others’ (Erhardt, 2007 : 66).She also says, ‘There are times when I feel it impacts our lives too much; butDiana, being considerate, will back off a bit when I mention this’ (Erhardt, : 67).Wives are expected to share their husbands’ fascination with the practice.One wife talks of how her life became centred on her husband’s interestin cross-dressing: ‘We got the Internet and our lives revolved around cross-dressing. We spent hours in chat rooms and going from site to site look-ing for information’ (Erhardt, 2007 : 123). Another wife commented, ‘Thebiggest stressor in our relationship is the amount of time and energy gen-der dysphoria and the transition process take from our relationship. I oftenrun out of patience’ (Erhardt, 2007 : 144). She says she often feels as if her‘only role in this relationship is to be support for “the big decision”’ (ibid.).Feminist research on the unpaid work of wives suggests that supportingmen’s hobbies and leisure activities, e.g. by washing the football outfi t, is anunder-recognised aspect of housework (Delphy and Leonard, 1992 ). In thecase of transgenderism, the work required is rather more extensive. Wivesmay fi nd that, rather than taking a more equal share of the housework intheir new female persona, their husbands may engage in a form of learnthelplessness they think is suited to femininity and place even more burdenson their wives. Our interviewee explains that she was required to ‘remem-ber that he was “female” at all times, and treat him “like a woman”’, which‘even extended to refusing to carry heavy bags when out shopping, eventhough he is a foot taller than me and had far greater upper body strength’.She explains that her husband ‘has refused to do some things in case hebreaks a nail – I kid you not. He has literally said that.’ Helen Boyd reportssimilar behaviour and says that wives of cross-dressers fi nd it infuriating thattheir husbands become helpless as they begin to imitate their idea of what awoman is, in a way which is insulting to women and creates extra work forthem. This might include ‘having your former husband tell you she can’t putup bookshelves because she might break a nail while the unspoken assump-tion is that it’s okay for the woman raised female to put them up’ (Boyd, : 255). Financial exploitationWives commonly complain about the impact of their husbands’ practice onthe family fi nances. Family money is used to buy clothes and make-up, to payfor cross-dressing weekends, for hormones, and in the case of those who gofurther, a range of surgeries from amputation of genitals and the creation ofa fake vagina, to voice box and facial feminisation surgery. One wife in theErhardt collection remarks, acidly, of the fi nancial burden of her husband’spursuit, ‘Gwen feels compelled to devote most of her time to a career inactivism that does not pay the bills’ (Erhardt, 2007 : 176). Another says, ‘Wehave spent or saved an incredible amount of money for Theresa’s new ward-robe, hair care, electrolysis, and hormones, not to mention SRS, and also pos-sibly a hair transplant. This is a big fi nancial burden’ (Erhardt, 2007 : 132). Thewives of ‘Stephanie’ and ‘Trish’ and ‘Mandy’ complain about the difficulty infi nding money for electrolysis, clothes and accessories, hormones and surgery(Erhardt, 2007 : 139; 146). ‘Trish’s’ wife remarks tellingly that ‘I had neverspent that kind of money on myself ’ (Erhardt, 2007 : 152). But the husbandshad a masculine sense of entitlement that trumped their wives’ fi nancial wor-ries and careful husbanding of resources.The loss of community and supportThe distress of wives may be compounded by the fact that their husbands’behaviour may separate them from their support networks. Members of theircommunities may cleave to the transgender husband rather than the aban-doned wife. As Christine Benvenuto expresses it, ‘[T]he political correctnessquotient meant that much of what I had thought of as my community wentto Tracey’ (Benvenuto, 2012a : 81). She considers that this is because support-ing a man who is transgendering is much more politically hip than beingloyal to his wife. Benvenuto lives in a college area full of persons who like tothink of themselves as politically progressive: ‘In the Valley of the PoliticallyCorrect, it’s easy to support a transgendered friend or acquaintance. Betterthan easy. It gives one a sort of panache, for some people a kind of frisson’(Benvenuto, 2012a : 170). Such people found it ‘impossible … to express evenbasic human sympathy for me or for my children’ and their desire to be pol-itically correct meant they had to be ‘fully on board with his gender project’(ibid.). Women who supported her husband went so far as to tell her ‘that mywifely role was to support my man’s gender-bending and to get my childrenon board with the project. My responsibility was to Tracey. Tracey’s responsi-bility was to Tracey’ (Benvenuto, 2012a : 62).Benvenuto found when she published her memoir that lack of commu-nity support was overtaken by actual persecution. Unlike other accounts by wives who support their husbands’ proclivities, despite lamenting the disad-vantages they suff er (Rudd, 1999 ; Boyd, 2004 , 2007 ), Benvenuto’s memoir isa cry of rage that reveals the cataclysmic eff ect upon herself and her childrenwith great clarity. Perhaps because of this, she has experienced consider-able backlash for her temerity in writing it. Her ex-husband, Joy Ladin, anacademic, enlisted friends and members of the transgender community tocampaign against Benvenuto’s writing. In November 2012, Ladin’s support-ers appeared at a book reading by Benvenuto to raise their objections to thebook, and their behaviour was so problematic that the police had to be called(Pfarrer, 2012 ).Benvenuto also experienced backlash over an article she put into a Jewishonline newspaper about what it was like to live in the same small town asyour transgender ex-husband (Benvenuto, 2012b ). She describes details suchas attending a doctor’s appointment about one of her children with her ex,during which they were seen as a lesbian couple and the child to be the off -spring of a sperm donor. The article is no longer available online because herex complained that she had referred to him with male pronouns. The journal,Kveller , gave the following reason for its act of censorship:When it comes to issues that impact a historically (and currently) perse-cuted community it is our responsibility as editors to be extra sensitiveto the exact language being used. Kveller and its parent organization… are committed to honouring the identities and life experience of allpeople, including transgender people.(Kveller, 2012 )Interestingly, it is husbands who transgender who are seen as persecuted andin need of honour and protection here, and not the wives who have suff eredpsychological violence from their husbands. Benvenuto does not accept thather ex-husband is a woman on the grounds that she has had a lengthy sex-ual relationship with him and borne three children from his semen. But herperspective is not honoured. This might suggest that such behaviour by menis an expression of masculine privilege, which elicits the approbation of patri-archal communities and organisations, and the blaming of women.Our interviewee turned to an online group for transgenders and part-ners when in severe need of support and found there was little to be had.It was supposed to be for ‘trans’ and ‘signifi cant others’ but had few activefemale members. The regulars were, she said, ‘privileged, white, late transi-tioners’, many of them simply cross-dressers who wanted to ‘get under thebig umbrella and benefi t from legal protections. They love “gender iden-tity”.’ She attended some social events for ‘trannies’, which were the oppositeof supportive for partners, and the socials served as places where the men ‘could show up and get “dressed” on the premises. It felt very highly sexu-ally charged. There were male “tranny chasers” there who were about thecreepiest men I have ever encountered. Leering and staring from corners.Ugh.’ These experiences accentuated her distress: ‘The TVs there didn’t seemmuch interested in me – they wanted to speak to my partner, and a particu-larly leery, predatory one kept feeling him up. I may as well have been a gravystain on the table.’Not accepting a change of sexThe wives and partners of transgenders are unlikely to accept that a changeof sex has actually taken place. Christine Benvenuto, for instance, said she wasunable to use the male pronouns her husband demanded: ‘Pronouns, of course,became problematic around a person crossing gender lines. I still use the malevariety to refer to Tracey because even now I can’t think, speak, or write aboutthis person any other way’ (Benvenuto, 2012a : 92). She is quite sure that Traceydid not become a woman: ‘He also wasn’t, for me never will be, a woman’(Benvenuto, 2012a : 126). It is, perhaps, not surprising that this level of certaintyshould be common among the wives and partners. They had, after all, beenattracted to their husbands as men, lived with and had sexual relationshipswith them for decades as men, had children with them as men, and the ideathat they could become women had no validity. Pronouns are problematicfor the wives of cross-dressers as well, as one wife explained, ‘I still can’t seemto call my husband a “she” very often’ (Erhardt, 2007 : 76). Another wife of across-dresser said, ‘One of my pet peeves is cross-dressers who insist that thewomen in their lives call them she, girls, or ladies out of respect, or in ordernot to hurt their feelings’ (Erhardt, 2007 : 90). She explains that she was ‘born awoman’ and deserves ‘the title of “she” and shouldn’t have to share it … I don’twant to be expected to see cross-dressers as “real women”’ (ibid.). Husbandscan seek to enforce their pronouns of choice on their wives through emo-tional blackmail. Our interviewee explains how this can work, ‘He was soooohyper-sensitive about any male pronouns and I had to police my language tothe extreme lest he burst into tears and dramatically fl ounce off , leaving mealone in some bar somewhere on the other side of town.’Wives are often deeply discomforted by the ideas that their husbands haveabout ‘femininity’ and womanhood, which are sometimes in stark contrast totheir own. Helen Boyd’s account of living with her transgender husband, Betty,is most instructive regarding the profound disbelief female partners can feel atthe extreme and fantastic versions of ‘femininity’ the men adopt and expectto have accepted as constituting an essence of womanhood (Boyd, 2007 ).Boyd explains that she had been a ‘tomboy’ in her youth, never knew exactlywhat feeling like a woman was supposed to mean and rejected femininity as socially constructed and constricting. She was surprised, therefore, when herhusband told her he did know what it was to feel like a woman, and it wascertainly not what she had ever felt. She explains,The more I encouraged him to fi nd an identity that felt comfortableand natural to him, the more unnatural he seemed to me. His man-ner changed, as did the way he used his hands. He fl ipped his hair andstarted using a new voice.(Boyd, 2007 : 78)She hoped his behaviour was just a ‘phase’ because ‘I felt as if I were liv-ing with Britney Spears. It was like sleeping with the enemy’ (ibid.). Boydobjected very much to being lectured at by cross-dressers that she was notdoing femininity correctly, ‘for not living the glories that are the feminine’(Boyd, 2007 : 79). She particularly disliked criticism by cross-dressers of hersensible shoes: ‘Having men in size 12 sling-backs mock my “librarian shoes”is probably the worst kind of experience I’ve had in the MTF community’(ibid.). Our interviewee also found her husband’s ‘parody’ of female behav-iour through hair fl ipping hard to cope with:I can tell when he’s been thinking about being a woman, or fantasisingabout it … because his voice gets a bit higher and he does that limpwristed thing with the other hand on his waist and he fl icks his haira lot.Her husband was not interested in his wife’s clothes because they did not feedhis fantasy: ‘He doesn’t wear my clothes – not “feminine” enough. He likes towear short skirts, low cut tops, high boots. He calls it a “rock-chick” look.’Several of the wives in the Erhardt collection express similar frustration atthe creation by their husbands of a femininity they cannot relate to, since theywere never much interested in such fripperies themselves. As one expresses it,‘I, who had never cared much about clothes and resented the “Barbie doll”image of women, had a husband who seemed obsessed with clothes and washelpless while his nail polish was drying’, and resembled the ‘teenage primp-ing I have never wanted to do’ (Erhardt, 2007 : 193). Many women acceptedtheir husband’s or partner’s transgenderism on the surface but few completelyaccepted the idea of a woman in a man’s body. An extra difficulty for wives ifthey were to accept that their husbands had actually changed their sex is thatthey would then have to see themselves as ‘lesbians’, and many found this animpossible requirement (Buxton, 2006 ).Our interviewee explains that she had been a ‘do-gooding liberal’ whojust accepted what people said about themselves without ‘examining the political or cultural context of their assertions’, but no longer thought thatway. Nonetheless, as she says, she had never ‘been into “woo” or magic spiritsor essences’, and now realised that ‘a lot of what gets printed about the“woman in a man’s body” makes no scientifi c or rational sense’ and is ‘com-pletely without any credible physiological or neurological basis’. Interestingly,she says that she ‘witnessed’ the way that the male-bodied transgenders‘developed and honed their narratives’ as they changed from just being cross-dressers, who were open about their ‘sexual fetish’, to considering them-selves trans, and saying, ‘Oh my gawd, I must get hormones or I’m gonnakill myself – I am a WOMAN!’ They gain respectability by identifying astransgender rather than just cross-dressers: ‘Most men are ashamed of theirfetish. Calling it “transgender” and developing elaborate theories about it is ameans of making it “respectable” and gaining sympathy from the “born thisway” advocates.’ The narratives of wives can be more enlightening about themotives for this variety of male behaviour than the clinical and popular lit-erature, which tends to accept transgender ideology as truth.The role of wives in feminisationThe unpaid labour that wives and partners are required to perform in sup-port of their husbands’ impersonation of womanhood frequently has a sexualcomponent, which may involve playing the dominatrix in sexual scenar-ios in which they are expected to ‘feminise’ their husbands. There is a veryconsiderable industry online to service male-bodied transgenders, supplyingequipment that includes not just clothes, breast and hip forms, padded pants,corsets, wigs, make-up, and high heels, but also training courses for voice andposture, and pornography. The main theme of both the training materials andof transgender pornography is ‘feminisation’, that is erotic humiliation, andin these rituals wives have a starring role. In the pornography men are forcedto adopt clothing and behaviour that they associate with the subordinate sexcaste, and ‘Amber Goth’s Forced Feminization’ site demonstrates the enlist-ment of wives and female relatives. Goth explains the content of ‘forced fem-inisation’ pornography thus:Some of our stories feature mothers, aunts, grannies, wives etc. whofeminise boys or young men and turn them into girls. This is a commontheme in transgender fi ction and is about wish-fulfi lment on the part oftransgendered folk, who really wish that this could happen to them!(Goth, 2012 )Another example is Cindel Sabante’s book, My Husband, My Panties , in whichthe sexual fantasy involves the wife, and may help to explain why male-bodied transgenders like to surprise their wives while ‘dressed’, expecting an enthusi-astic response in which the wife turns into a dominatrix, as here:Expecting the worst, Annie instead fi nds Mark in an embarrassing pos-ition on the bedroom fl oor. Mark had passed out wearing her clothes!Seeing an opportunity for a little fun, Annie decides to change Markinto her own little female friend, and tests the limits of how far Markis willing to go.(Sabante, 2013 )The active role expected of wives is indicated in the fact that they are referredto as ‘trainers’ on websites devoted to that aspect of transgenderism thatinvolves women’s underwear. A search for ‘My Husband, My Panties’ bringsup 6,010,000 hits and shows the popularity of this theme for cross-dressers(e.g. My Husband’s Panties, 2005 ). Discussions on the sites include men say-ing they wore their mothers’ underwear at the age of twelve, or used tosteal the underwear of the girl next door. Men also speak of specially buyingunderwear for their wives so that they can wear it themselves. Many of thesethemes come up in the accounts by wives featured earlier in this chapter. It islikely to prove quite disappointing for husbands trained to respond sexuallyto such fantasies through their pornography consumption, to fi nd that theirwives do not want to act as ‘trainers’, become distressed, and reject the sexualservicing opportunities that are being off ered to them.The most explicitly sexual version of feminisation is ‘sissifi cation’, whichis very clearly a form of masochistic satisfaction for the male devotees. Menare ‘sissifi ed’, or humiliated, by being required to wear clothing they associatewith women, and then being spanked or subjected to sadomasochist sce-narios by dominatrixes, schoolmistresses and other female authority fi gures(Sissifi cation, n.d.a). The practice is so enchanting for men that a search onthe word brings up 744,000 hits. The use of the term ‘sissy’ is illuminatingsince it is very clearly a term of abuse based upon women’s subordinate sta-tus. It does indicate that there is no positive association with women attachedto this practice, only a degrading and demeaning one. The website entitledSissy School off ers, ‘The Queendom of sissifi cation. And it’s very pink, veryfrilly, and very girlie.’ It off ers material on ‘sissy phone sex, sissy domination,sissy cuckold training or sissy maid training’ (Sissy School, n.d.). Much of thematerial, though, is in the form of video pornography, which was not exam-ined in the research for this book (Sissifi cation, n.d.b).The advice and visual materials on ‘female body language secrets’ are use-ful indications of the transgender perspective on what ‘essential’ feminin-ity consists of. The full ‘feminisation kit’ includes videos, expert interviews,‘special reports’, ‘cheat sheets’, a ‘worksheet’, a ‘resource guide’, a ‘hypnosis program’, and advice on walking, make-up, clothes, hair, and voice feminisa-tion. The idea of a ‘feminine essence’ is somewhat undermined by such anindustry, however, since that which is ‘natural’ and biologically determinedcould not possibly require such detailed instruction. The hypnosis programmewill teach a man how to be a woman on the ‘inside’ in only fi fteen minutes:‘All you have to do is sit back, relax, and let your mind take you on a femin-ine journey. In time, you will fi nd yourself eff ortlessly thinking, feeling, andacting like a real woman!’ (Sorella, n.d.).Transgenders and cross-dressers who gain sexual excitement from wom-en’s subordination can be quite knowledgeable about how such subor-dination works, as the following quote from advice to men on ‘feminineposture’ makes clear. The instruction is called ‘Open vs. closed’ and explainsthat women ‘take up less space than men. This might seem obvious, but I’mamazed at how many girls forget to keep their legs together and their elbowsin. (Genetic girls, too!)’ (Sorella, n.d.). The men gain their satisfactions fromthinking about and acting out precisely the restrictions of movement thatthose born and raised female have been tormented and trapped into by a life-time of training in subordination, and they understand very well what theyare doing: ‘Open body positions are associated with the display of power.Besides making you look more passive and feminine, a closed body positionmakes you appear physically smaller’ (Sorella, n.d.). In this example, the real-ity of women’s subordination becomes a plaything for men’s sexual excite-ment. Though many wives may be unaware of the transgender pornographyempire that underlies their husbands’ practice, they are likely to fi nd the roleexpected of them as audience, helpmeet and dominatrix distasteful, and someare answering back.The resistance movement of wivesIncreasingly, wives are speaking out and the germs of a movement of resist-ance to what they are being subjected to are becoming visible. It is not amovement which comes close in size and infl uence to the transgender activ-ist movement, through which their husbands can gain support, legal remediesand resources. Online sites that are off shoots of that movement purport toprovide for wives but do not necessarily do so. Benvenuto sought supportfrom an online message board for transsexuals and their family members, onlyto fi nd that the message was to give unqualifi ed support to their transitioningpartners: ‘Yes, they could be emotionally abusive. But didn’t their husbandsreally have it much worse? Wasn’t a wife’s job to be supportive – no matterwhat?’ (Benvenuto, 2012a ; 128). One online support site for wives, however,crossdresserswives.com, takes a very diff erent perspective (Crossdresserswives.com, n.d.a). It is specifi cally for wives who are fi nding it very diffi cult to survive their husbands’ behaviour and does not allow ‘stewarding’ by hus-bands. The site provides a Bill of Rights that is illustrative of the aspects ofmen’s cross-dressing practice that wives fi nd most problematic. Though itapplies ostensibly to the wives of cross-dressers rather than men who seekto live as women full-time, all of the ‘rights’ are about precisely those aspectsof their husbands’ behaviour that the wives of more committed personatorsfi nd distressing (Benvenuto, 2012a ). It begins with the right ‘to know prior tomarriage/cohabitation – not to be lied to at the altar’, and goes on to encom-pass the right to tell other people about the problem, to have negative feelingsabout it, the right to reject the practice ‘including sexual acts’, the right to‘refuse to participate or be exposed to the practice of cross dressing’, the rightto leave the relationship, the right to ‘insist on therapy’, and the right to pro-tect the children from ‘psychological trauma’ (Crossdresserswives.com, n.d.b).The material on the website is anonymous, which protects contributors fromthe sort of punishment Benvenuto received.Most of the accounts by wives are explicit about the fact that their hus-bands’ cross-dressing is a sexual practice that wives are now being expectedto tolerate, or take part in, on the grounds that it is some kind of biologicalcondition that the men cannot control. Sexologists and sex therapists havetraditionally expected women to endure their husbands’ expression of theirmasculine sexual prerogatives (Jeff reys, 1990 ; Tyler, 2011 ). Women havebeen guilt-tripped by sex writers such as Alex Comfort, author of The Joyof Sex (Comfort, 1972 ; Jeff reys, 1990 ), into accepting sadomasochist prac-tice that disturbed them, for instance, and into chores such as swallowingsemen though they found it distasteful, and many other practices aimed atmen’s satisfaction at the expense of their own. It continues to be a problemthat as men’s sexual interests change – often through their consumption ofpornography and other elements of the sex industry – the demands uponwives escalate. Anal sex is now commonly demanded by male partners to theextent that sexologists have invented a new sexual problem ‘anodyspareunia’to account for women’s reluctance and pain and to justify creating therapiesto enable women to overcome this (Stulhofer and Ajdukovic, 2011 ). In thecase of transgenderism, it may be even harder for women to object becausethe practice is framed as inevitable and uncontrollable.The mothers of transgendersAll of those who transgender have had mothers, and the mothers suff ermany similar hurts to those experienced by wives and partners, but thisgroup has not been studied at all. There is one book that covers their experi-ence, called Transitions of the Heart (Pepper (ed.), 2012 ). It is composed ofthe stories of mothers, including those who identifi ed their toddler children as transgender and those whose adult sons transitioned in middle age. Thestories are presented with no analysis, the mothers are uncritical of trans-genderism as a practice and all support their off spring wholeheartedly, butthe extraordinary stresses they suff er are clearly expressed. The book appealssentimentally to mother love, as mothers who accept that their children aretransgender and support drugs and surgery for them are represented as par-ticularly loving.Mothers who identifi ed their children at a young age as transgender – inone case as early as one year old – did so on account of their preferences forparticular toys or clothes. Their criteria directly refl ect those that comprisethe defi nition of gender identity disorder in childhood and refl ect traditionalsex stereotypes that feminists have long critiqued. Mothers who are involvedin imposing such rigid roles on their young children should not, perhaps, beseen as entirely blameless in the transgendering of children, as they play anactive role. At the other extreme, some of the off spring are themselves alreadyretirees and came out as transgendered to their mothers at an advanced age.The mothers generally express grief at the loss of the little girl or boy thatthey gave birth to. They express mourning and talk of endless crying as theytried to come to terms with their grief. The editor, Rachel Pepper, expressesthe dilemma of mothers thus: ‘For as children transition, so too must theirfamilies’ (Pepper, 2012 : xviii). The mothers suff ered severe psychological dis-tress, as one described: ‘I whirled mentally and emotionally … Feelings ofconfusion, insecurity, fear, and sadness’ (Pepper (ed.), 2012 : 84). They express astrong sense of loss at the transgenderism of their off spring. They loved themas the biological sex to which they were born, and felt they lost those lovedpersons when they transitioned.One woman describes her grief at seeing her adult son go through extremebody dysphoria as he embarks on many surgeries to remake his body in theimage of his fantasy: ‘Yet another operation for my child … My transgenderdaughter says she’s still not right, still doesn’t look a hundred per cent like awoman. She has gone through gender reassignment surgery, cosmetic shavingof the jaw line and nose, and two hair transplants. She now says that the bonesof her eyebrows and the hairline are not right’ (Pepper, 2012 : 119). In describ-ing her son she says he, ‘still stares endlessly in the mirror, still sees things noone else sees, and I grieve for her’. Watching this self-mutilation caused greatdistress. Since the National Health Service in the UK would only pay for sex-reassignment surgery and not all the extras, the mother worried about thecost to her son’s family fi nances: ‘will it just be another 5,000 pounds downthe drain?’ (Pepper (ed.), 2012 : 118).Mothers, too, suff er from the self-centredness that the men who trans-gender can exhibit. This same mother describes the disturbing change inpersonality that took place in her son as he transitioned: She was still operating as a man at this point. She was so full of hate andanger towards women. I wondered if it was jealousy … she has becomeremarkably fl at in personality. We fi nd this apparent lack of emotiondifficult to accept. She is highly intelligent, but the self-obsession, para-noia, and the avoidance of society which seems to go with her condi-tion, has taken its toll. We are all hoping that she will now fi nally moveon with her life.(Pepper, 2012 : 120)The ‘all’ who were so adversely aff ected included his mother, wife and youngchildren.Some mothers have the misfortune to have to go through multiple expe-riences of losing their family members to transgenderism. In one case awoman lost both her twin daughters, who had come out as lesbians at highschool but went on to transition (Pepper (ed.), 2012 : 125). In another casea mother lost both her husband and her daughter to transgenderism. Themother explains that the husband was a cross-dresser who went on to tran-sition, and infl uenced the girl child to follow his lead: ‘My husband wantedour twelve-year-old daughter Heather to go through transition with him,including surgery’ (Pepper (ed.), 2012 : 155). Heather changed her name atsixteen and at eighteen had a hysterectomy. When parents enable their chil-dren to transition, the fi nancial costs they bear are considerable. Pubertyblockers for the children cost US$4,500–15,000 yearly, and therapy addsanother cost (Pepper (ed.), 2012 : 125). Whereas some mothers are clearlythe victims of the practice of transgenderism, in some cases they can be seento collude with patriarchal sex stereotyping and may even off er up theirchildren as sacrifi ces upon the altar of ‘gender’. Research is needed into theparents who actively seek to transgender their off spring.It is time for a rethink in relation to the suff ering that men who transgenderinfl ict upon their wives. It may need to be understood as an under-recognisedform of psychological violence towards women, a situation in which womenneed the serious support structures that are seen as appropriate when they arethe victims of other forms of bullying from male partners. An understandingof the harms that male-bodied transgenders infl ict upon their wives shouldcause all feminists, women concerned for the welfare of their sisters, to thinkseriously about the ethics of unconditional acceptance of the identities andpronouns of men whose wives are suff ering. Feminists who accept a man as‘she’ when his wife, children, mother cannot, and feel abused by the demandthat they should, are abandoning an increasingly large section of womankind and expunging them from the community of women who deserve respect, infavour of supporting men in the exercise of their prerogatives.Husbands transition as a result of their masculine prerogative, which isparticularly forceful around matters that concern their sexual satisfaction. Butwives are no longer as submissive and self-eff acing as they were in the earlydays of transgenderism. Some are becoming very angry, and the beginningsof collective organisation are emerging. The voices of wives need to be heardbecause they have the capacity to break through the liberal fantasy of essentialtransgenderism. Wives say that their husbands are not, and cannot be women.It makes no sense to them that the men whose semen was essential to thecreation of their children, and whose ‘feminine’ endeavours resemble Barbiedolls, should be called ‘she’ and given social kudos. Unfortunately, women’svoices are not powerful in patriarchal societies where the voices of the fathersin the form of sexologists, psychiatrists and endocrinologists are taken ser-iously when women’s lifetime experience is disdained.The transgendering of women and men need to be considered separatelybecause they are very diff erent phenomena. They are, however, usually runtogether in the literature as if they were but two faces of one single prac-tice. The main diff erence stems from the fact that ‘gender’ is a political cat-egory that signifi es caste status. Therefore, members of the superior caste,men, ostensibly lose status when they transgender, but for cross-dressersthis can be precisely the reason for doing so as they can gain masochisticsatisfaction. However, it should be recognised that, as we have seen in thelast chapter, men who transgender do not surrender all their male privil-ege but carry it with them into diff erent social contexts and are still able towield authority over women. Members of the inferior caste, women, havequite a diff erent experience when they transgender. They raise their statusthereby, and in a society in which hatred and degradation of women hasvery harmful eff ects on women’s sense of self, as well as a depressing eff ecton their lifetime earnings, this could be a powerful motivation to seek toenter the superior sex caste. The transgendering of women is an antidoteto feminism because it is a way in which individual women can raise theirstatus by joining the caste of men. In contrast feminism seeks to dismantlemale superiority so that the status of all women is raised, and this task is inno way advantaged by the social mobility towards masculine status of a tinyminority of women.Men who transgender fi nd the existence of women who have transitioneduseful because they can be seen, in the absence of any recognition of thediff erences, to confi rm the authenticity of their own practice. Phyllis Frye,for instance, a US judge and one of the architects of the International Bill ofGender Rights 1995, specifi cally comments on how helpful the existence ofsuch women has been: In my experience, nothing destroys the stereotypes of transgenders bet-ter than when a person unexpectedly meets a long-term FTM (female-to-male). FTMs completely obliterate the stereotype of the transgender.FTMs also provide a strong link to the feminist movement. Becausemany of them have backgrounds in lesbian and women’s rights politics,they are able to bring training, insight and political connections.(Frye, 2000 : 141)The similarities consist of the fact that the idea of transgenderism is a con-struction of the medical profession in both cases, the fact that both practicesrely upon, and reinforce, harmful stereotypes of gender, and the fact that theyinfl ict severe harms to health and human functioning. In other respects, how-ever, the diff erences are considerable. To begin with, men dominate the prac-tice. There has historically been a considerable gap in the numbers, whichis still refl ected in those who receive gender recognition certifi cates in theUK today, with three in every four persons who transgender being male(Ministry of Justice, 2012 ). There are diff erences in sexual orientation. Themajority of men who transgender are heterosexual and in relationships withwomen at the time, and only a minority are men who have relationshipswith men (Lawrence, 2004 ). They are attracted to women prior to transition,and continue to be attracted to women after transition, at which point theyare likely to identify as lesbians. In the case of women who transgender, thevast majority relate sexually to women and most identify as lesbians and havebeen long-term members of the lesbian community before they transition(Devor, 1999 ). They are straightened out by transition and mostly considerthemselves to be in heterosexual relationships after the event.The very diff erent contexts in which men and women transgender con-stitute another very considerable diff erence between these practices. Theheterosexual majority of male-bodied transgenders have no male culture offemininity through which to understand themselves. The vast majority offemale-bodied transgenders, on the other hand, have inhabited a lesbian cul-ture in which masculinity is valorised and many will have adopted aspectsof stereotypical masculinity in their appearance long before they decided totransition. Within lesbian culture, the practice of butch/femme role playing,in which the female partners in a relationship adopt the stereotyped roles thatprovide the foundation for heterosexuality, was common in some sections ofthe community before the advent of second wave feminism in the 1960s andhas experienced a rebirth since the 1980s (Jeff reys, 1989 ). It is in the role play-ing of butchness and the valorisation of masculinity that the phenomenon offemale-bodied transgenderism has its origins (Jeff reys, 2003 ). This very con-siderable diff erence between male and female aspirants aff ects, for instance,the degree of support that they receive. The female partners of women whotransgender may see transition as simply an extension of the butchness theyhave already accepted as part of role playing practice. The lesbian commu-nities in which female-bodied transgenders come out as ‘men’ may fi nd thisunsurprising to the extent that they have previously accepted extreme formsof masculine acting-out as an ordinary part of lesbianism. For male-bodiedtransgenders the situation is diff erent. Though they may have gained satisfac-tion from thinking about themselves as ‘feminine’ for some time, they willusually have partners and communities for whom the idea of femininity inmen is an unfamiliar and unpalatable concept.Another singular diff erence, as the sexological literature makes plain, is thefact that transgender behaviour on the part of women is not a form of sexualfetishism as it commonly is for men (Bailey and Triea, 2007 ). While sexualfetishism – in the form of being excited by donning clothing stereotypic-ally associated with women or seeking ‘female’ body parts – is increasinglybeing seen as explanatory of much male-bodied transgenderism, it off ers noexplanation for the female-bodied variety. Female-bodied transgenders donot have histories of cross-dressing in men’s underpants for sexual excite-ment, and another form of explanation must be found.There is, however, no literature that seeks an explanation for transgender-ism on the part of women. The literature either takes transgenderism forgranted, as though it was a natural phenomenon, or it is celebratory. Criticalexamination that seeks explanations would likely be viewed as hostile and‘transphobic’ because it undermines the ideology that represents transgender-ism as inevitable and essential. But if the phenomenon is not viewed as awork of nature, which just happens to be manifesting itself with remarkablefrequency in the last three decades, then it is necessary to ask why it is takingplace. Understanding female-bodied transgenderism from a feminist perspec-tive provides a number of forms of explanation, all of which are related to theworkings of male domination (Thompson, 2001 ).One form of explanation to be considered here is that transgenderismis attractive because the societal hatred and subordination of women and oflesbians, and the valorisation of men, are forces that make it more attractivefor some women to escape their relegation to subordinate womanhood andseek the advantages that the adoption of manhood will bring. There is littledoubt that men in Western societies gain signifi cant advantages from theirsex caste status. These are economic, refl ected in much higher lifetime earn-ings; physical, in terms of safety from male sexual violence and unwantedpregnancy; and psychological, in terms of self-regard and well-being. Theseadvantages have been termed, by the male-bodied transgender sociologist,Raewyn Connell, the ‘patriarchal dividend’, which constitutes ‘the advantagemen gain in general from the overall subordination of women’ (Connell, : 79). Another form of explanation consists of the way in which female- bodied transgenderism emerges as an extension of butch role playing in les-bian communities. ‘Gender’ is the sorting system of male domination andconstitutes the hierarchy in which men have power over women. Its ubiquityand importance make it hard to think outside the box of gender and trad-itionally, in lesbian communities, ‘gender’ has been reproduced as lesbianshave sought to understand themselves within the norms of their society.Butch/femme role playing and transgenderism by womenButch/femme role playing was common in parts of some lesbian communi-ties before the 1970s. It was challenged by lesbian feminism, which sought tocreate equal relationships between women, free from the constraints imposedby a patriarchal heterosexuality that framed eroticism as only imaginablebetween persons playing masculine/feminine roles. In the 1990s lesbian roleplaying was rehabilitated and created a foundation for the transgendering oflesbians. Some lesbians resented the feminist challenge to role playing becausethey considered that their sexuality was linked to butch/femme roles andthat this eroticised inequality was indeed the very embodiment of essentiallesbianism. Such a reaction is described by Arlene Lev, a lesbian psychother-apist who works with those who consider themselves transgender and wrotethe book Transgender Tapestry ( 2004 ). Her perspective is important becauseher book has made her infl uential within transgender studies. She explains,in the Journal of Lesbian Studies , her despair at entering a lesbian event in thelate 1980s and fi nding that all the lesbians who were there, who were havinga great time, were ungendered in their appearance. She found she was notsexually attracted to any of them:I looked around at the room of androgynous lesbians – sweet women,laughing and enjoying themselves, comfortable in their bodies and thecelebration of sexuality that dancing with your own can bring – andwith the suddenness of an electric shock, I realized there was not onewoman in the room who I could imagine dating. My community, ahome in my heart, left me sexually cold, aloof.(Lev, 2008 : 134)They were not role playing power diff erence so they were simply not attract-ive to her.Feminism wrought dramatic changes on the practices of lesbians in thes (Jennings, 2006 ). In her fascinating account of the history of the iconicLondon lesbian club, the Gateways, from the 1940s to the 1980s, From theCloset to the Screen , Jill Gardiner uses material from her interviews to describehow feminism infl uenced the club clientele (Gardiner, 2003 ). Prior to thes, lesbians who used the club were likely to engage in role playing andeven call themselves by male names, as the novelist Mary Duff y describes inher novel, The Microcosm (Duff y, 1966 ). Recalling that time, lesbians explainthat there was no option to identifying as butch or femme, and lesbians whowere not identifi able were derided (Jennings, 2006 : 218). Historian, RebeccaJennings, explains that in role playing etiquette ‘strict codes of behaviourstructured who might dance with whom’ and ‘established boundaries, defi n-ing who was sexually available to whom’. This paralleled the rules of het-erosexuality, ‘a similar organizational function to that provided by notions ofgender in mainstream society’ (Jennings, 2006 : 220, 221). The impact of fem-inism, Jennings explains, made adoption of ‘the extremes of masculine andfeminine which were central to butch/femme clothing’ unnecessary, becauselesbians could ‘wear trousers and … follow their personal preferences in dress’without question. Also feminism caused many to feel ‘uncomfortable withthe notion of asking a butch’s permission to dance with a femme and refusedto comply with accepted conventions’ (Jennings, 2006 : 223). Lesbians whoembraced feminism abandoned role playing and were able to engage enthu-siastically in sexual relationships without any resort to the trappings of gen-dered power diff erence. But some, like Lev, clearly found this difficult.According to the anti-feminist narrative of transpolitics and sexual lib-ertarian/queer lesbianism, it was precisely lesbian feminism that oppressedbutches and femmes and drove them out of the lesbian community, and theresurgence of role playing practice from the 1980s onwards is seen as thereturn of the repressed. Arlene Lev writes, ‘The rise of lesbian-feminist polit-ics in the 1970s eff ectively drove butch-femme identities, communities, andexpression underground, silencing, and therefore historically distorting, dis-cussions of gender expression in lesbian relationships’ (Lev, 2008 ). The greatmistake of lesbian feminists, she says, was that ‘gender expression itself becameseen as a tool of the patriarchy’ (Lev, 2008 : 131). She is correct in that ‘gen-der’ roles are understood in feminist theory not as harmless tools of sexualexcitement and fashion, but the stratifi cation system of male domination.They show who is up and who is down, and regulate behaviour accordingly.In transgender mythmaking, it was lesbian feminists who should bear someresponsibility for constructing female-to-male transgenderism through thisprocess of expulsion. Butches, unable to fi nd a valorised place in lesbian com-munity, were forced out into transgenderism.In fact, though she represents role playing as simply the natural form oflesbian interaction, Lev makes it clear that she does indeed understand roleplaying as representing the traditional roles of patriarchal heterosexuality. Sheexplains, Butch and femme are, at their root, gendered erotic identities. Butches,assigned and identifi ed as females, experience their sexuality as medi-ated through masculinity. Femmes, by reclaiming a socially scornedfemininity, broadcast their sexuality – a lesbian-specifi c sexuality – bypublicizing their attraction to masculine females.(Lev, 2008 : 133)The biggest problem, and it is one that the femmes complain about a greatdeal, is that this does not work for them since their lesbianism is invisible.Both in the malestream world and in lesbian communities, they may not berecognised as lesbians and fi nd they are assumed to be heterosexual (Jeff reys, ). They suff er the marginalisation and exclusion that are commonlywomen’s lot in a heteropatriarchal society that valorises masculinity. Similarly,as we shall see in this chapter, the partners of lesbians who transgender canfi nd they have no role in parts of the lesbian community and are not recog-nised as lesbians, while their transgender partners do have a place.Lev explains the role of the femme as being the responsibility to supportthe butch, as the ‘butch/femme dance’ celebrates ‘the masculinity of butchlesbians, and in that act heals some of the disembodiment butches can experi-ence’ (Lev, 2008 : 136). Femmes are required to sustain the masculinity of theirlovers and this role, too, is common to the dynamics of relationships in whichone partner transgenders. Butches are heroised as the true lesbians, thosewho bear the slings and arrows of anti-lesbianism and deserve acclaim fortheir political resistance. There is an analogue of this in the problems of non-transgender partners of female-bodied transgenders, who must put eff ort intocreating the illusion of their trans partner’s manhood, even to the extent ofpretending that she did not have a ‘girlhood’ and was always somehow male.The partners are required to enter into a folie à deux to maintain the precar-ious, and ultimately implausible, idea that one partner has changed their sex.Within lesbian role playing, butch/femme couples, Lev explains, recre-ate heteropatriarchal roles very precisely and ‘according to emerging reports’they ‘enact family roles in sexualized and erotic ways … meaning that rolesof Mommy, Daddy, Son and Daughter, are enacted – sexually and romantic-ally – within the intimate narratives of the couple’ (Lev, 2008 : 138). Femmes,she says, act just like the traditional wives of male domination by creatingsafe homes for their butch and family, ‘I would like to suggest that one ofthe most subversive acts that femmes have accomplished is the establishmentof a safe haven for their families in often hostile environments, through thecreation of homes and through the process of homemaking’ (ibid.). Femmes,it transpires, do ‘Women’s domestic work – the work of cooking, cleaning,mending, and kissing “owies” – work that I suspect originated from and wassustained by the hands of femmes in femme/butch relationships, has mostlygone unnoticed or judged irrelevant or apolitical’ (Lev, 2008 : 139). As femin-ist economists have pointed out, housework is still viewed as ‘women’s work’and those sporting masculinity are exempt (Jeff reys, 2012 ; Waring, 1989 ). Thatwhich Lev seeks to romanticise is fundamental to women’s inequality.It is this normalisation of butch/femme role playing that created the foun-dation for the development of the practice of female-bodied transgender-ism in the 1990s. Lesbians who transition, like Chaz Bono, often understoodthemselves to be butch lesbians beforehand (Bono, 2011 ). The issue of whetherlesbians who transgender are simply going a bit further than those who remainidentifi ed as butches and eschew the opportunity to transition has been muchdebated in the lesbian community. Indeed a phrase has been developed to dis-cuss this issue, the ‘border wars’, meaning the border between butchness andtransgenderism (Halberstam and Hale, 1998 ). Some lesbian writers have arguedthere is scarcely any diff erence, while others have sought to establish that thereis a considerable diff erence, not just one of degree of masculinity adopted, butin the essence of the practice, meaning that the lesbians who transgender reallyare ‘men’ whereas butches remain female however they behave. Butch/femmerole playing recreates the roles of the heteropatriachy, while transgenderismgoes further by attempting to recreate the bodies thereof. Butches are oftenproud of their lesbianism, but those who transition extirpate their lesbianismand engage, through the use of hormones and surgery, in the medical creationof heterosexuality. It is an archetypically heteronormative practice.The transgendering of lesbians can be characterised as another example ofthe ways in which the medical profession has sought to straighten out lesbians,since the majority of those women who ‘trans’ relate to women afterwards,creating a heterosexual couple (Jeff reys, 2003 ). This could be understood as ahuman rights violation, just one more way in which the socially despised statusof‘lesbian’ can be expunged through the connivance of the medical professionand the state. Only if they are recognised as ‘men’, in most states, are lesbianspermitted to marry each other or access other rights (McConville and Mills, ).The harmful effects of female-bodied transgenderismon lesbians and on feminismWithin lesbian communities dominated by queer politics, an increasing num-ber of women are transitioning to a simulacrum of maleness (Bauer, 2008 ;Weiss, 2007 ). The harmful eff ects of transgendering on the bodies of thosewomen who transition are dealt with elsewhere in this volume. This chapterexamines the harmful eff ects on the lesbian community, on lesbian relation-ships, and on feminism. During the wave of transgendering of males thatbegan in the last decades of the twentieth century, lesbians were slow to join in. The practice was unknown in the lesbian community of the 1970s andremained very rare well into the 1990s. The phenomenon does not fi gure inimportant collections of lesbian essays in the 1970s such as Our Right to Love(Vida (ed.), 1978 ), or even in Julia Penelope’s edited collection Lesbian Culturefrom 1993. The latter included a piece on butch and femme in the 1950sfrom Joan Nestle, but nothing about transgenderism.One clear eff ect of the transgendering of lesbians is that it disappears theirlesbianism in a literal way, by so changing their bodies and presentation thatthey no longer resemble women or lesbians, though they generally seek rela-tionships with women and lesbians and remain within lesbian communities.The history of lesbianism has been shown by lesbian historians and com-mentators to be one of persecution, and elimination from the public record(Klaich, 1974 ). Transgenderism fi ts into this grim history by once more mak-ing lesbians invisible. For many of those who would once have been lesbians,transgenderism is the newly fashionable style. All of the city groups and ser-vices that were once set up by lesbians and feminists in the 1970s to providefor lesbian communities have now been replicated for lesbians who trans-gender. There are social groups, political groups, fi nancial planning groups (topay for surgeries), lists of transfriendly venues, lists of potential trans room-mates (Hudson, n.d.).There is one signifi cant diff erence, however; the existence of groups forthe partners of lesbians who transgender. Before the phenomenon of trans-genderism, both partners in a relationship were lesbians and could attend allthe same groups and neither required special services. Female-bodied trans-genderism shuts the partners of these women out of the lesbian communitiesthat have shaped and supported their lives because they are now seen as reallyheterosexual. This disappearance of lesbians has a negative eff ect upon femin-ism too, because lesbians were the founders of so many important institutionsfor women, refuges and rape crisis centres, publishers, bookshops, theatregroups and bands. Lesbian feminists in second wave feminism worked withhuge energy for the benefi t of all women, including other lesbians. To theextent that pride in being women and lesbians has been the basis of lesbianfeminism, and therefore crucial to the feminist movement, this disappearanceof lesbians constitutes a severe harm to this politics.Presently female-bodied transgenderism has progressed as a practice to thepoint where it is plentifully justifi ed, described and celebrated, even in thefeminist academy. In the last few years there have been special issues on trans-genderism of Women’s Studies Quarterly (Volume 36, 3 and 4, 2008), and, ontransgenderism and intersexuality, of the Journal of Lesbian Studies (Volume 10, and 2, 2006). There is little or no critical comment about transgenderism inthe journal articles. This level of coverage is indicative of the burgeoning ofthe practice. In 2013, the peak body for women’s studies in the United States,the National Women’s Studies Association (NWSA), has an ‘interest group’for ‘feminist masculinities’ (NWSA, 2013 ). Whereas once those involved inwomen’s studies, like other feminists, would have seen masculinity as theproblem that feminism needed to dismantle, now it is being vaunted as a life-style choice that is consistent with, if not exemplary of, academic feminism.This is a good indication of the extent to which some branches of academicfeminism have drifted away from feminist activism and the feminist move-ment, and become at best irrelevant and at worst toxic to the possibility ofthe liberation of women.The physical harms that women experience from hormones and surgeryare considerable and are covered in detail in a previous chapter, but multipleharms are infl icted upon women’s and lesbian communities, too, from thispractice. The women partners of those lesbians who transition suff er grief,loss and distress that is similar to the suff ering of the partners of male-bodiedtransgenders, but there are some signifi cant diff erences that result from thefact that the transition takes place in a lesbian couple and takes the formof emulating masculinity, which is the behaviour of the superior sex casteof men.Accessing the patriarchal dividendhave access to the patriarchal dividend, the privi-leges and advantages that appertain to men in systems of male domination.For lesbians, in particular, this may be an attractive option, because as ‘butches’they suff er anti-lesbian discrimination and harassment that can be alleviatedif their persecutors consider that they are actually ‘men’. One important andvery material aspect of the patriarchal dividend is economic. The economicdividend is clearly revealed, for instance, in the very great diff erences betweenthe average amounts of money that women and men will earn in their life-times and the amount of money on which they can hope to retire. Femalebusiness executives in the UK will earn only two-thirds that which maleexecutives, who are similarly situated and start and fi nish working at the sameage, earn in their lifetimes (Barrow, 2012 ). This is a very substantial advan-tage for men and it has been poorly explained by economists. Very interest-ing research by Kristen Schilt, however, has demonstrated precisely how thepatriarchal dividend works for female-bodied transgenders in the workplace(Schilt, 2006 ). Schilt interviewed twenty-nine women who had transgen-dered about their experience while working as women, and after their tran-sition. Some of the women remained in their original places of work duringand after transition, and some changed their place of work, but in both casesthey received considerable advantages compared with their previous experi-ence. Schilt explains that though the women had exactly the same skills, education and abilities after transition, how ‘this ‘human capital’ is perceivedoften varies drastically once they become men at work’ (Schilt, 2006 : 466).Female-bodied transgenders gained a ‘reward’ in the form of ‘a type ofbodily respect’, which meant ‘being freed from unwanted sexual advances orinquiries about sexuality’ (Schilt, 2006 : 479). The behaviour from male co-workers that ceased after transition included grabbing breasts and being called‘honey’ and ‘babe’. According to two respondents, being transgender wasgreatly preferable to being ‘obvious’ lesbians in the workplace as they couldescape ‘sexualized comments’ and ‘invasive personal questions about sexual-ity’. Such privilege was only available to ‘stealth’ transgenders, that is thosewho were not open about their transitions. Stealth transgenders gained ‘phys-ical autonomy and respect’ and ‘less touching, groping’ (Schilt, 2006 : 479).There were other very substantial gains, as female-bodied transgendersfound that they acquired greater respect and authority in their work, andwere given more staff and resources to do their jobs. When seen as ‘men’ theyhad to work less hard, received more positive reviews for that work, and weremore rewarded. One of Schilt’s interviewees explained how these advantagesaccrued not just to employees, but to those who set up their own businesses:‘I have this company that I built, and I have people following me; they trustme, they believe in me, they respect me. There is no way I could have donethat as a woman’ (Schilt, 2006 : 482). This female-bodied transgender explainedthat though some women achieved success as entrepreneurs, it would havebeen particularly difficult for an obvious lesbian to do that. Transitioningeliminated that disadvantage. Several other interviewees explained that as les-bians who were butch or ‘gender ambiguous’, they received cruel humilia-tions such as not being allowed to walk in the front door of the restaurant inwhich they worked lest they project the wrong image for the establishment.As ‘men’ they were able to wear clothing that they would otherwise havebeen pilloried for and achieve the professional success that would otherwisehave eluded them.One-third of the participants said they did not gain an advantage, but thiswas usually because they were in the early stages of transition or not seen asmen. Height could make a big diff erence, since small women would, aftertransition, be smaller than average men and might not garner the same respectas a taller male would. Some felt they looked extremely young after transi-tion and this aff ected the way in which they were treated. Black and Asianwomen who transitioned reported that though relieved of the structural dis-advantage of being seen as ‘women’, they still suff ered disadvantage as a resultof racism. As Schilt comments, the advantages that women gain when theytransition bring into focus the eff ect that cultural beliefs about gender, whichare embedded in workplace structures, have on women’s inequality. Theresearch illuminates the invisible but very important and pervasive everydaydiscrimination that women experience, but may not, in the absence of any-thing to compare it with, be able to identify. It also shows, Schilt argues, thatwomen are not impeded in their advancement in the workplace by socialisa-tion as female, which aff ects their decisions and behaviour, since women withthe same socialisation who transitioned were able to advance perfectly well.Women, this shows, are structurally disadvantaged by the way that others seeand treat them, rather than any qualities they may display.In later research, Kristen Schilt and a colleague examined the workplaceexperience of male-bodied transgenders (Schilt and Wiswall, 2008 ). Theyfound that men who transition lose money, through ‘signifi cant losses inhourly earnings’ (Schilt and Wiswall, 2008 : 4). They conclude that the lateraverage age at which men transition, forty years, compared with women,thirty years, is related to these losses. They suggest that men intending to tran-sition strategically ‘change their gender later to preserve their male advantageas long as possible’, whereas female-bodied transgenders ‘on the other hand… maximize their expected gains from becoming men by changing theirgender earlier’ (Schilt and Wiswall, 2008 : 19). Schilt’s work is important as anexcellent example of a feminist understanding of gender as a hierarchy anda way of organising power diff erence, rather than as an essence, as it is com-monly said to be in transgender theory. Her 2006 article is titled, ‘Just Oneof the Boys: Making Gender Visible in the Workplace’. It does not use theword ‘gender’ to refer just to clothing preferences or ways of behaving, as iscommonly the case in transgender ideology. What is made visible is the wayin which ‘gender’, as a caste system, creates advantage for men and disadvan-tage for women.Another signifi cant gain from transitioning consists of greater physicalsecurity and freedom from fear. Women who transgender escape the abuse,harassment and violence from men that those women who remain on thegender frontlines continue to experience. In the workplace, as Schilt shows( 2006 ), sexual harassment in the form of grabbing body parts and sexualisedcomments and questions are all part of the disadvantage that female-bodiedtransgenders leave behind when they transition. Moreover, transitioning outof womanhood may off er a vision of safety to some women who have suf-fered severe violence from men. Though there is a dearth of research exam-ining the experiences that female-bodied transgenders have of violence,there is some work that suggests a connection. Holly (now Aaron) Devor, forinstance, found in research she carried out before she herself transgenderedthat female-bodied transgenders had experienced a high occurrence of vio-lence in childhood (Devor, 1994 ). Seventeen of her forty-fi ve respondents(38 per cent), reported signifi cant physical abuse in their childhood homes,and fourteen (31 per cent), reported sexual abuse. Altogether, 60 per cent ofher total had experienced physical, sexual or emotional abuse, and in most cases, she explains, these forms of abuse were those likely to lead to the mostsignifi cant psychological harms in later life. She takes pains to point out thatthese fi gures refl ect only those who chose to bring up abuse while tellingtheir stories, since she asked no questions about it. She adds that the factthat trangenders are keen to represent themselves as psychologically robust,lest they be denied medical treatment or suff er greater discrimination, mayfurther reduce the percentage of those mentioning abuse. Nonetheless thefi gures are signifi cant. She suggests that ‘in some cases transsexualism may bean extreme adaptive dissociative response to severe child abuse’ (Devor, 1994 :). In these cases, she hypothesises,a male protector/survivor personality, which functions co-consciously… with the original female personality, might act as a defense,and later, after many years of reinforcing psychological and social-ization experiences, as an escape route from otherwise intolerablepsychic pain.(ibid.)These women had created a male ‘avatar’ to give themselves a shield againstviolence in their youth and this formed the template for the male they thensought to become. This research was conducted two decades ago, and therehas, unfortunately, been nothing similar. It raises the question of how littleinvestigation takes place by the medical profession into the backgrounds ofthe women whom they transgender.There are other disadvantages of womanhood that women who trans-gender are able to escape from, such as the onslaught of ‘beauty practices’ thatgirls and women are required to carry out upon their bodies in order to beacceptably feminine and sexually attractive to men. These include depilation,diets, cosmetic surgery, make-up, high heeled shoes, tight and revealing cloth-ing (Jeff reys, 2005 ). Male domination, and the low and stigmatised status ofwomen, cause teenage girls to engage in punishment of their bodies througheating disorders and self-mutilation (Jeff reys, 2000 , ). There is increas-ing evidence that woman-hating Western cultures are toxic to girls and veryharmful to their mental health (APA Task Force, 2007 ). It is, perhaps, notsurprising, therefore, that there seem to be some girls baling out and seekingto upgrade their status. Medical developments in surgery and drugs, and anincreasingly entrenched medical ideology of essential gender that can acci-dentally reside in the wrong body, could appear to provide forms of escape forsome girls and women. Lesbians may seek to escape anti-lesbian discrimin-ation and the abuse that stems from the social hatred of lesbianism, which is asubset of the hatred of women. Becoming self-confi dent lesbians or feministscan protect women from the worst eff ects of this misogyny, but at presentmost women are likely to see no way out but to comply with the demands offemininity or suff er the ignominy of social exclusion for their refusal. In theabsence of feminist revolution, transgenderism may appear to off er a solutionto some, but one that entails severe punishment of the body. It wreaks havocon the potential equality that can exist in lesbian relationships too.Female-bodied transgenderism in relationshipsIn the last few years feminist researchers have studied the relationships thatfemale-bodied transgenders have with other women. This work is fascinat-ing on several fronts. It enables an evaluation of the claim that transgender-ism is transgressive, and shows the heteronormative architecture on whichthe relationships are often built. Also, this research shows quite clearly thattransgenderism is not just an individual pursuit, as the masculinity of thetrans partner has to be constantly reproduced in relationship with others.Masculinity is part of a binary and requires its opposite, since, in the absenceof femininity, masculinity would have no meaning. Much of the hard work ofthe non-trans partners is directed to the construction of their partners’ mas-culinity, physically, through doing the hormone injections and, symbolically,by femming up to emphasise the gender diff erence.Exponents of queer and transgender studies commonly argue that trans-genders challenge and transgress gender norms and the rules of heteronor-mative relationships. In an article on how challenging transgender lifestylesare, the authors argue, ‘The experiences and perceptions of transgender indi-viduals fundamentally challenge society’s normative beliefs and theoreticalideas about the nature of gender roles, gender identity, and sexual orientation’(Nagoshi et al ., 2012 : 406). Such research is usually short on details of exactlyhow this occurs. Research that studies the relationships that transgendersactually have, does not bear out the much vaunted transgressiveness of thepractice at all, with one study of the relationships of transgenders fi nding that‘participants were strongly infl uenced by heteronormative discourses’ (Iantaffiand Bockting, 2011 ). This has been found to be the case in the relationshipsthat female-bodied transgenders have with women, too, and this is perplex-ing, since research on housekeeping in lesbian relationships where neitherpartner has transitioned, for instance, shows something rather diff erent, aquite equal division of labour (Dunne, 2000 ; Kurdek, 2007 ; Solomon et al . ). When lesbians transgender this equality drops away, and a commontheme of research on their relationships is that they seek to mirror heterosex-ual ones in many ways (Brown, 2009 ). Transgenderism re-establishes inequal-ity in relationships between women. As we have seen in the previous chapter,the wives of men who transgender also fi nd themselves burdened with newforms of housework and with the creation and maintenance of their partners’ new ‘gender’. In both cases it is female partners who are expected to shoulderthese burdens.One of the heteronormative dimensions is the onus of relationship build-ing and maintenance, which in heterosexual relationships rests on the femalepartner (Kamo, 2000 ). Pfeff er’s research, in which she interviewed the non-trans partners, has found this pattern also appertains for women in relation-ships with female-bodied transgenders ( 2010 ). She found that the stories ofthe non-transitioning partners ‘resonate’ with heterosexual couples in thatthey perform the traditional household duties as well as the emotional labour,just as heterosexual housewives have been expected to do. Importantly, thenon-transitioning partner takes on the burden of supporting and enabling theaspirant partner as she goes through the transition process. The participantscommonly reported ‘inegalitarian, gender-stereotyped divisions of householdlabor between themselves and their trans men partners’ (Pfeff er, 2010 : 173).One woman, when asked how much of her life comprised ‘taking care of herpartner and issues related to transition’ said, ‘about 70% of my life. That’s scaledback from what it was’ (Pfeff er, 2010 : 174). She maintains the household, does‘massive’ amounts of her partner’s ‘own work – school work’, as well as ‘a hugeamount of emotional time spent in processing transitioning, family, frustra-tions around the transition process’; meanwhile her own thesis was neglected.The partners of female-bodied transgenders found themselves engagedin exhausting emotional work, not only in terms of supporting their partnerthrough transition, but also dealing with communication within the rela-tionship and managing family and community issues. A problem that wascommon among the partners was one that features strongly in heterosexualwomen’s dissatisfactions with their male partners, the inability of the trans-gendered partners to communicate. The trans partners just did not speak,particularly about the problems of transition, and they were, as one womanexpresses it, ‘clumsy’ about feelings. One woman in Pfeff er’s study describedher partner as forgetful and messy and not being able to take care of ‘him-self ’, and said that was why she fulfi lled this role. As Pfeff er comments, ‘Thesenarratives were strikingly similar to those off ered by women partners of non-trans men’ (Pfeff er, 2010 : 175).One arduous task that the women undertook was the medical care oftheir partners as they transitioned. This included ‘emotional support, advo-cacy, bimonthly testosterone administration’ (ibid.). Moreover, Pfeff er pointsout, this work is likely to be endless since ‘transition should be considered aniterative, relational, and lifelong process’ (ibid.). The non-trans partners wereexpected to fi nd sympathetic doctors, make appointments, monitor treat-ment. In relation to the very brutal surgeries involved in transition, personalcare of the transgender partners could be very disturbing. It involved notjust twenty-four hour care for the patient after surgery, but care of seriouswounds after ‘top’ surgery, for instance. As one partner remarked, ‘I get kind ofqueasy and stuff and I remember the smell being really intense’ (Pfeff er, 2010 :). As Pfeff er puts it, the partners served as ‘unpaid and untrained personalmedical and health care advocate, therapist, assistant, and nurse’ (Pfeff er, 2010 :). They also had to arrange fi nances for the surgeries, ‘saving, raising, andcontributing funds for transition-related procedures’ (ibid.).Abusive relationshipsAnother way in which relationships that include a female-bodied transgendercan replicate heteronormative patterns is the psychological abuse and physicalviolence that are exercised by some of the transitioning partners. No researchhas specifi cally examined this problem, but Nicola Brown, while carryingout interviews with partners of transgenders that did not ask questions aboutviolence or abuse, found that fi ve of her twenty participants spontaneouslybrought up the problem (Brown, 2007 ). The types of abuse the partnersreported included manipulation, emotional and verbal abuse, name callingand demeaning put-downs. More aggravated abuse included one trans part-ner who frequently kept her partner in a state of sleep deprivation, punchingwalls, destroying her possessions and throwing objects. Controlling behaviourincluded repeated violations of agreed rules in a non-monogamous relation-ship and not being allowed to initiate sex. Two of the fi ve were manipulatedinto fi nancially supporting their transgender partner. Similar forms of abusewere perpetrated against participants in Joslin-Roher and Wheeler’s ( 2009 )study, where one partner in particular had to take on full fi nancial responsi-bility for both of them, when her transgender partner could not fi nd work.One form of coercion is quite specifi c to relationships in which thereare trans partners, and consists of the use of the victim status of transgendersto establish control. In such relationships the abusive trans partners utilise aform of blackmail, involving threats of exposing a non-compliant partner as‘transphobic’ in a similar way to the male-bodied trans partners in the pre-vious chapter. Brown found that transgender abusers used ‘trans status and/or political discourses’ against partners. Non-trans partners could be con-trolled by accusations of transphobia if they failed to behave in supportiveways, including being fi nancially supportive: ‘I spent so much time payingfor his blood work and his testosterone, which he needed and if I didn’tpay … I was a bad girlfriend, I wasn’t supportive of him, and then I became“anti-trans”’ (Brown, 2007 : 380). There is increasing evidence that accusa-tions of ‘transphobia’ can be used by female-bodied transgenders in order todiscredit their partners’ legitimate concerns and guilt-trip them into obedi-ence. A quotation on Elspeth Brown’s blog about her research into relation-ships in which one woman is trans indicates the ubiquity of the accusations. She explains that she was going through her interviews and the problemof a partner being called transphobic came up ‘yet again’. Her intervieweestates, ‘I’ve been called transphobic so many times I can’t even count’ (Brown,Elspeth, 2011 ).Women suff ered particular difficulties in recognising or protesting abusewhen in relationships with trans partners. This was because the ideology oftransgenderism had trained them to see their partners as victims so theycould not also be seen as abusive or, if they were, this could be justifi ed asan understandable result of their oppressed condition (Brown, 2007 : 377). AsNicola Brown explains,The view that transsexual partners were ‘more oppressed’ as a conse-quence of their transsexual … status … seemed to prevent participantsfrom thinking they could be abusive because it contradicted the dom-inant model of violence where the abusive partner is the person withmore social power.(ibid.)One interviewee explained that she took emotional abuse that she would nothave tolerated from a man or a woman and spent a lot of time,educating myself onhis ‘oppression’ and thinking of ‘him’ [as] sopowerless in a societal sense that there would be no way he could haveenough power to be abusive [and her partner] used his various iden-tities – trans included – to reinforce that myth for me.(ibid.)Another interviewee said that though she thought some behaviour was‘unfair’ ‘there was something about the fact that he was trans that let methink, “Okay, maybe that’s okay”’ (Brown, 2007 : 378).The abusive transgenders used their transgenderism as an excuse for theirviolence, for example an apology for violence might include a reason givensuch as ‘well, it’s because someone called me “she” today’ (Brown, 2007 :) as though that excused their violence or abusive behaviour towardstheir partner. The abusers put the blame on the victims, citing their faultssuch as not being loving enough, not being supportive enough, not beingfemme enough, and other solecisms. So, like heterosexual women in abusiverelationships, the abused partners in Brown’s study felt as if they were ‘walk-ing on egg shells’ (Brown, 2007 : 377) and were in a constant state of aware-ness. None of them reported the abuse to police, nor did they tell families orfriends; moreover, they blamed themselves for the abuse and it was not untiltheir relationships ended that they spoke of it.Another form of abuse was the denigrating of lesbians and women thatsome female-bodied transgenders engaged in. Non-trans partners were thevictims of hostile invective simply because they remained members of thedespised, subordinate female sex caste. One of Brown’s interviewees explained,‘Li also was prone to making fun of stereotypical female behaviour. He wouldcall girls fl ippant or stupid or make remarks about women’s bodies. He wassuspicious of women: women were defi nitely something other than whathe was. He constantly made distinctions between the “way women act” andthe way he acts’ (Brown, 2007 : 382). This behaviour, though distressing forpartners, is foreseeable, since the idea of ‘masculine’ gender relies on the dif-ferentiation and denigration of its opposite, ‘femininity’. As Brown observes,such behaviour may refl ect sexism in the sense of‘an identifi cation withdominant, misogynist masculinity’ or a ‘disidentifi cation process’ through‘devaluation’ of that which is female. Similarly, the trans partner is likely towant to dissociate as much as possible from a previous lesbian identity thatundermines the authenticity of her transition. Invective that denigrates les-bians can be particularly hurtful to partners who saw themselves as lesbiansin a lesbian relationship before their partner chose to change the goalposts.Elspeth Brown’s informant describes a context in which this anti-lesbianabuse occurred and how disturbing it was:I got in a giant fi ght with my ex, who’s a trans guy … and I said some-thing like, ‘Don’t you ever miss being a lesbian.’ He was so off ended, hewas like ‘I was never a lesbian’. But he said lesbian like it was just the vil-est thing … I don’t accept it. And that doesn’t make me transphobic.(Brown, Elspeth, 2011 )Straightening outNon-trans partners who understood themselves to be in lesbian relationshipsbefore their partners transitioned are harmed by being required to relin-quish their sometimes hard-won, lesbian identities and the lesbian commu-nities that have been their support, in order to identify as heterosexual atthe behest of their lovers. Brown’s research (Brown, 2009 ; 2010 ) shows non-trans partners refl ecting on and renegotiating their identities. Of the twentyparticipants in her study, twelve identifi ed as lesbians prior to the transitionof their partner, fi ve as queer and three as bisexual. After the transition oftheir partners, only four identifi ed as lesbians, twelve had changed their self-identifi cation to queer, two identifi ed as bisexual and two did not nominatean identity, referring to themselves as ‘open or fl uid’ (Brown, 2009 ). Out oftwenty participants in Pfeff er’s ( 2008 ) study of the body image of female-bodied transgenders’ partners, only seven identifi ed as either a lesbian or dyke. None of the participants in Pfeff er’s ( 2010 ) work on fi fty couples, of which per cent were in a lesbian relationship prior to FTM transition, identifi edtheir relationship as lesbian thereafter.One of Brown’s respondents explained that she thought of herself as alesbian but that she was aware that publicly she is seen as a heterosexual orbisexual woman (Brown, 2009 ). She considers herself to be in a ‘strange anduncomfortable place’ because if she objected to the way she is seen and calledherself a lesbian, she would eff ectively out her partner as transgender (Brown, : 67). She concluded that she was living in a ‘kind of no man’s land interms of identity’ (Brown, 2009 : 70). One of Pfeff er’s participants spoke ofbeing unsure about how to identify to others (Pfeff er, 2010 ). She had previ-ously identifi ed as a lesbian, but now does not know whether to identify asa lesbian or a heterosexual woman, and feels she is compromising her transpartner if she calls herself a lesbian. Identifying as a lesbian was unthinkable tosome non-trans partners as their transgender partners had started identifyingas men. Retaining their previous lesbian identities would disrupt the carefullyconstructed myth that their partners had really become ‘men’. As non-transpartners adapted to being heterosexualised by their partners’ actions theylost their communities too, feeling that they must leave the lesbian group inwhich they had found support, for instance. The confl ict between attach-ment to community and attachment to their partners caused them and theirrelationships a great deal of distress (Brown, 2009 ). Identifi cation with thelesbian community was important for the non-trans partners in Joslin-Roherand Wheeler’s ( 2009 ) study, too. Being part of a community was a way forthem to understand themselves and to be understood by others; it gave thema political ideal and interaction within the community was a way to meetothers like themselves. But, ironically, while the female-bodied transgendersoften stayed within and had a home in the lesbian community, the non-transpartners found that they had no place.Transgenderism creates a barrier between women who were once bothpart of the same lesbian community. The achievement of ‘gender’ diff erencemeans that couples may end up with no community that accepts them both,as the female-bodied transgenders create their own community, which doesnot accept non-trans partners, and the lesbian community may not accepteither party, since they have either abandoned lesbianism or changed theiridentity to straight (Cook-Daniels, 1998b : 7). A great displacement takes overfrom the sense of sisterhood and community that feminism and lesbian fem-inism seeks to create.The trauma of having to change their sexual identity from lesbian toheterosexual can be particularly distressing for those, such as Loree Cook-Daniels, who have been very involved in lesbian activism, fi ghting for rec-ognition and provision specifi cally for lesbians (Cook-Daniels,b ).Cook-Daniels was a lesbian activist from age eighteen, when she set up agay youth group and continued to organise marches and actions after hav-ing met a partner, Marcelle, who announced that she wanted to transgender.Cook-Daniels says she prevented her partner from transitioning because shewanted to preserve the lesbian identity that was so important to her. After her‘eventual decision to stop blocking Marcelle’s dream’, she abandoned her les-bian activism in favour of becoming one of the to campaign around theissues of ‘Lesbian-partners-of-FTMs’, and said she was ‘fi red’ by ‘repentancefor my sin against Marcelle’ in delaying her transition ( 1998 b: 2). Marcellelater committed suicide ( 1998 b). The change in Cook-Daniels’ priorities isa good example of the way in which transgenderism can derail lesbian andfeminist politics. She is remarkably frank about the exclusion and denigra-tion that non-trans partners received at the hands of the developing com-munity of female-bodied transgenders in the 1990s. When she attended thesecond FTM of the Americas conference, she says, she was ‘appalled at theway the partners were treated’ ( 1998 : 2). They were excluded, talked down toor ignored and seen as ‘tag-alongs’ ( 1998 b: 3). She found that, despite her longrecord of activist achievement, Marcelle’s transition ‘relegated me to a sort of“Ladies’ Auxiliary”’ (ibid.). She was accused of a number of transgressions andattacked as a lesbian: ‘I was unprepared for the anger and hatred many voicedabout Lesbians, a category of people that I apparently personifi ed’ ( 1998 b:). She had to fi ght for a place within the transgender community withoutbeing, as she put it, ‘shot at’ ( 1998 b: 8).In an article on the plight of lesbians with trans partners, Cook-Danielsquotes women speaking of their grief at losing the lesbian community, which,in some cases, they had played a key role in building (Cook-Daniels, 1998a ).One explains that she sorely misses being able to go to lesbian clubs andevents but does not feel able to, ‘if the event is for lesbians only, I don’t go… I worked for many years to create a space for lesbians to feel safe andfree to express themselves’ ( 1998 a: 4). This woman, like Cook-Daniels her-self, strove as an activist to put in place resources to alleviate discriminationand violence against lesbians, only to fi nd herself upstaged in the oppres-sion stakes. The transgender partners now required the limelight, claimingto be a more oppressed group than lesbians, and the lesbian partners werestraightened out.Body imageWhen a lesbian transgenders, it creates problems both for her own body imageand for that of her partner. The female body and biology of the trans partnerconstitute profound hazards to negotiate if the idea that she has ascendedto manhood is to be believed in against all the odds. The trans partners may menstruate, for instance, which is rather the antithesis of manhood as ordin-arily understood. One of the lesbians speaking in Cook-Daniels’ article onlesbian partners explains that, in her relationship, new language had to be cre-ated to explain this anomaly, which was described as, ‘Cognitive dissonanceweek (his term for that time of the month when he has to use “masculineprotection”)’ ( 1998 a: 5). Other partners explain that to avoid any associationwith their previous lesbianism, the trans partners forbid particular sexualpractices, diff erent in each case, that they see as specifi cally ‘lesbian’. Onedescribes this in the following way: ‘some FTMs feel using their hands is toolesbian coded, as are certain aspects of oral sex’ ( 1998 a: 5).The severe body image problems of female-bodied transgenders are a com-mon theme in accounts by both trans and non-trans partners and are charac-terised by a strong loathing of any parts of their bodies that reminded themthey were women, such as breasts, hips and body fat (Brown, 2010 ; Pfeff er, ). For example, one transgender referred to her breasts as a deform-ity, which she struck repeatedly in anger and frustration, and another usedwords such as torture and plague when referring to breasts. Menstruationwas referred to as horrifying and disgusting (Pfeff er, 2008 : 329). These prob-lems have a harmful eff ect on non-trans partners too, and one participant inPfeff er’s study said that she felt less proud of her own feminine curves as aresult of her trans partner’s denigration of the female body, and she felt that ifshe gained weight it was not pleasing to her partner (Pfeff er, 2008 : 342).Another problem for non-trans partners was that they might be requiredto feminise themselves in order to create a contrast to, and therefore bol-ster, the masculinity of their trans partner. Partners in Pfeff er’s ( 2008 ) studyreported making extra eff orts to appear feminine, for example shaving legsand armpits, growing hair longer, dressing in more feminine clothing and inpink, and acting ‘girly’ (Pfeff er, 2008 : 338). One female-bodied transgender,when recognised as a woman in public, turned on her partner and blamedher for not being feminine enough, for looking too much like a lesbian andtherefore causing suspicion that the trans partner was not really a man buta lesbian after all (Pfeff er, 2008 : 340). In this case the non-trans partner feltresentful: ‘I was really upset about it … like this was his transition and whywould I have to change who I am just so he could be happy with who he is’(ibid.). However, she said that she came to the realisation that she needed todo this for ‘him’.The transitioning caused problems for the sexual side of relationships. Somepartners found that they were aff ected by the dissatisfaction that their transpartners felt with their own female bodies, and started to question their ownattractiveness. One woman said, ‘I felt totally undesirable – utterly vacatedof any kind of ability to generate any sexual desire in my partner’ (Pfeff er, : 336). Her feeling was not helped by her trans partner’s accusation thatshe was not making herself desirable, without being able to tell her what shewas supposed to do. Trans partners could go to such lengths to alleviate theirown body dysphoria that this had a very negative impact on sexual practice.One female-bodied transgender, for instance, would not fully undress dur-ing lovemaking, in particular keeping her breasts covered, and did not allowreciprocal touching, which her partner said was ‘crazy-making for me. I stillwanted to touch him [ sic ] all the time’ (Brown, 2010 : 567).Non-trans partners have to negotiate the problem of decreasing attractionto their partners as their bodies undergo profound changes – often involvingthe extirpation of characteristics – such as breasts, curves and softness – thathad been the very foundation of eroticism and desire. Five of the twelve les-bian-identifi ed partners in Brown’s ( 2010 ) study were afraid that their FTMpartner’s physical changes would lessen their sexual desire for their partnersafter transition. They experienced distress as their partners developed a hatredfor parts of their bodies they associated with womanhood. One woman inBrown’s study said that she loved her partner’s breasts, but ‘he’ hated them,another was opposed to her lover undergoing phalloplasty and another saidshe felt it hard to be attracted to ‘him’ as he began to look more and morelike a man (Brown 2010 ). One respondent found non-monogamy to be asolution as she could continue to have sexual relations with women otherthan her transitioning partner.One quite distinct problem for sexual relations was that as the trans part-ner became more masculine this could trigger memories of sexual abuse inthe non-trans partner. Four of the partners in Brown’s ( 2010 ) study reportedhistories of sexual abuse by men. Experiencing their partner’s masculinisationbrought traumatic memories to the fore and they felt increasingly unsafe astheir partners gradually took on the appearance of the perpetrators. Theyfound that feeling facial and body hair and the smell of their partner’s sweataroused fear in them, so that they had to create signals that meant slow downor stop sexual activities in order to cope with this.Although there are some apparent benefi ts for individual women who trans-gender, the harms are considerable, in terms of not only their physical long-term health, but also what it does to their partners, to lesbian communitiesand to feminism. The tolerance and even celebration of the practice withinlesbian communities, and even within the feminist academy, is hard to under-stand. The least well-recognised harm is to feminism itself. Women’s status isadversely aff ected by the existence of transgenderism, because where oncefeminists were simply accused of wanting to be men if they expressed theiroutrage at inequality, they may now be adjured to actually become ‘men’. Transgenderism can act as a safety valve for women’s indignation. Insteadof working collectively to create social change, they can choose to changeonly themselves, though with considerable consequences for others, and canseek to escape one by one. Meanwhile, the attraction of this form of escapedepends upon women’s status remaining low, otherwise there would be noincentive for social climbing. It is important that feminists and lesbians opposethe normalisation of the transgendering of women in order to staunch thewounds that the practice is infl icting on the individual bodies of lesbians andon the lesbian body politic.The transgendering of children is one of the most troubling social harms thathas resulted from the malestreaming of transgenderism. Though this practiceis increasingly normalised through clinics devoted to transgendering childrenin major cities such as Melbourne and Toronto, there is an absence of mediaor academic criticism. I argue that its problematic nature can best be graspedthrough making links with eugenics practice. Eugenics practice employedsexual surgeries (Largent, 2008 ) and drug treatments to modify the behav-iour of the ‘unfi t’ in the early twentieth century, and family counselling inthe mid-century (Stern, 2005 ), to regulate sex and gender. Presently, childrenas young as ten years in Australia, with the connivance of the Family Court,are being put on puberty delaying drugs as a result of being diagnosed with‘gender identity disorder’, with the expectation that they will be moved ontocross-sex hormones at sixteen and receive surgery to amputate their sexualcharacteristics at eighteen (Jeff reys, 2006 ; Owens, 2011 ). Though Australia isin the forefront of this practice, other countries are catching up. In Germanyin 2009, a sixteen-year-old boy had his genitals removed to become a ‘girl’( The Telegraph , 2009 ), and in April 2011, the UK government agreed to enablean experiment administering puberty delaying drugs to children from the ageof twelve years (Alleyne, 2011 ). This practice sterilises the children. There hasbeen a surprising absence of critical feminist literature on the transgenderingof children, which this chapter seeks to remedy.The eugenic sexual surgeries and drug treatments of the past and thetransgendering of children in the present share a number of similarities,which will be examined here. The most signifi cant similarity lies in the factthat a project of social engineering lies behind both forms of practice. Bothpractices are based upon the idea that certain problematic behaviours have abiological basis and can be ‘cured’ by treatments that alter and aff ect sexualcharacteristics. In the half of the last century, a project of social engin-eering took place in Europe and North America that was directed at the control or elimination of the economic underclass, ‘morons’ – prostitutedwomen, criminals, those deemed to be ‘gypsies’, those seen as morally defi -cient, lesbians and gays, all considered to be the ‘unfi t’ – through sterilisation(Dowbiggin, 1997 ; Lucassen, 2010 ). Presently a regime of transgenderingchildren as well as adults has the eff ect of eliminating gender non-conformitythrough shoring up a correctly gendered and heterosexual state and citizenry.A similarity between these practices lies in the origin of the ideas for thesetreatments, which come in both cases from sexologists or scientists of sex,biologists, endocrinologists and psychiatrists. Another similarity lies in thetargets of the sexual surgeries, as lesbians and gays were targeted by eugeni-cists, and those with same sex sexual orientations are, in practice, a principaltarget of the sexual surgeries of transgenderism today. The practices are con-nected too in that they were both supported by persons who had an other-wise progressive agenda, such as sexologists who were often socialists, andsome feminists. This is certainly true of the practice of transgenderism today,which has been supported by many on the Left and many feminists, thoughthe issue of transgendering children has not been much remarked upon bythese constituencies as yet.In this chapter I will describe the way in which the practice of trans-gendering children has developed in the present, giving examples of howthis is taking place from Australian Family Court cases. This is followed by acomparison between traditional eugenics and the new variety in evidence inthe transgendering of children.The transgendering of childrenThe practice of transgendering children is a consequence of the increasingnormalisation of the practice of transgendering adults. There has been a cam-paign to transgender children from two constituencies, adult men who havebeen transgendered, and some sexual scientists, particularly endocrinologists.The demand for early intervention and treatment of children identifi ed as‘transgender’ has been spearheaded by organisations dedicated to the rightsof those who have been transgendered, such as the Gender Identity Researchand Education Society (GIRES) in the UK, and infl uential individual trans-gender blog activists such as Laura from Laura’s Playground (Laura, n.d.).These male-bodied transgender activists generally transitioned later in life,from their forties onwards. This meant that passing as women was difficult forthem due to their male bone structure and height. They argue that early inter-vention is vital to prevent what they see as ‘transgender’ children from experi-encing puberty and the entailed physical changes that will make transitionharder later on, and require expensive and more complex surgeries to achievea convincing simulacrum of the desired sex. An example of this campaigningwork is the ‘international symposium’ that GIRES, together with Mermaids,the support group for the transgendered, ran in 2005 to counter the signifi -cant resistance from within the medical profession to the idea of treating chil-dren. The symposium was for ‘doctors … who care for children and youngpeople experiencing gender variance’, and GIRES and Mermaids ‘remainin close contact with these professionals’ (Department of Health, 2008 ). Aprecisely similar form of campaigning to enlist the services of the medicalprofession was employed by the Erikson Foundation on behalf of adult trans-sexuals 30 years before (Billings and Urban, 1982 ). The international cam-paign spearheaded by GIRES achieved a major success with the publicationin 2009 of draft guidelines from the Endocrine Society that recommendthat children identifi ed as ‘transgender’ as young as twelve should be givenmedication to delay puberty (Endocrine Society, 2009 ). The recommenda-tions are largely based upon the experience of a clinic in the Netherlandsthat has been prescribing puberty blockers for some time to those undersixteen years. The guidelines recommend that ‘adolescents who fulfi l eligibil-ity and readiness criteria for gender reassignment initially undergo treatmentto suppress pubertal development’. They ‘suggest’ that ‘pubertal developmentof the desired, opposite sex be initiated at about the age of 16 years, using agradually increasing dose schedule of cross-sex steroids’ (Endocrine Society, : 4). They recommend referring the children for surgery when they havecompleted a ‘real life experience’ of living as the desired sex, but ‘suggest’ thatsurgery should be deferred until the child is ‘at least 18 years old’.Pressure to treat children with drugs to delay puberty is also comingfrom some of the professionals at gender identity clinics. Norman Spack, forexample, endocrinologist and co-director of the DSD (Disorders of SexualDiff erentiation) Clinic at the Boston Children’s Hospital, expresses a ratherunseemly enthusiasm for being able to perform such treatment:Yes, we remain at a crossroads, salivating at the prospect of applying theDutch protocol for pubertal suppression, yet without permission fromhealth insurers to pay for the expensive drugs or pressure from themedical and mental health communities to demand it. The frustrationlevel of parents is rising, fueled by knowledge of what could be done.(Spack, 2008 : xi)Spack knows what can be done and wants more freedom to treat children inthe way he thinks appropriate. He is one of the authors of the 2009 EndocrineSociety Guidelines that recommend puberty delaying drug treatment forchildren. Another specialist at Spack’s clinic, a ‘pediatric endocrinologist’, wascharged in September 2012 with receipt of a large amount of child pornog-raphy (Herald Staff , 2012 ). The prosecutor said the government plans to show that this man ‘appeared to have a dedicated sexual interest in children, goingback several decades. Based on those factors, we do believe the defendant isa danger to the community.’ Those who engage in transgendering childrenmay require greater oversight as to their motivations and competence.As the campaign by lobbyists and sex scientists to transgender children hasachieved increasing success, there has been an emergence of online NGOs tosupport the parents of ‘transgender’ children, and the publication of advicebooks. The practice of transgendering children is being normalised by booksfrom psychologists who make a living from identifying and treating chil-dren as ‘transgender’. One of these from the United States is a ‘handbook’,The Transgender Child , written by Stephanie Brill and Rachel Pepper, whichadvises parents on how to recognise that a child is ‘transgender’ so that theycan receive professional help (Brill and Pepper, 2008 ). Stephanie Brill, whodescribes herself as a member of the ‘butch/trans community’ (St. John, ), is a ‘gender educator’ and founder of Gender Spectrum Education andTraining (Gender Spectrum, n.d.), which off ers support to parents of ‘gendervariant’ children and off ers gender training programmes for schools. RachelPepper is described on the book jacket as a therapist who specialises in ‘trans-gender and gender variant clients’. A number of organisations set up to ser-vice the families of ‘transgender’ children dispense similar advice on theirwebsites, such as Trans Youth Family Allies (TYFA, n.d.) in the United States.A board member of TYFA, Andrea James, is the man who posted photos ofthe children of the sexologist Michael Bailey on the Internet with porno-graphic captions (Dreger, 2008). There should, perhaps, be a question markover the suitability of such men to advise on how to treat children over suchan important issue as their future health and fertility.Parents are invited to identify their children as ‘transgender’, often at veryyoung ages. Brill and Pepper tell parents that their insight into theirchild’s transgenderism will be at eighteen months:When your 18-month-old girl’s words are ‘me boy,’ or your-year-old son insists that he is a girl, and these responses don’t waveror change over the next few years, you can be pretty sure that you havea transgender child.(Brill and Pepper, 2008 : 2)Parents are advised to be watchful for such matters as whether their youngchildren select sex-appropriate ‘underpants’, i.e. the boy should not choosethose with fl owers on. The tone of these published and online resources iscoercive, as parents and professionals are told that the treatment of transgen-dering children is the only responsible way forward, that it is just, and that itmay be the only way to protect the children from self-harm and suicide.One of the authors of the handbook, Rachel Pepper, subsequently editeda collection of stories from the mothers of transgender children (Pepper (ed.), ), which represents the mothers who identify their children as trans-gender at extremely young ages as brave and progressive. In one case a motherreports that she identifi ed her boy child as a girl because, ‘by the time he wastwo, he refused to play with boys’ toys’ (Pepper, 2012 : 87). She took him tothe Tavistock Clinic at six years old in order to be told that he had ‘genderidentity disorder’. This mother calls the endocrinologist, Norman Spack, her‘saviour’. Another mother noticed something ‘diff erent’ about Alic ‘when hewas around age three or four. He saw me sewing and literally cried out, “Nomore pinafores, Mom, please!”’ (Pepper, 2012 : 109). Another mother iden-tifi ed her daughter as transgender on her birthday when she cut up herparty dress with a pair of scissors (Pepper, 2012 : 61). This represents a remark-ably pious, and callous, application of sex role restrictions by mothers, allunder the guise of allowing the children to be the ‘gender’ they really are.GIRES has been so successful in securing the support of the medical pro-fession for its preferred treatment options that it was able to play a major rolein developing the guidelines on medical care for persons seeking to be trans-gendered, which were published in a series of pamphlets by the UK NHSin 2008. The series includes one on medical care for ‘gender variant chil-dren and young people’ (Department of Health, 2008 ). This provides a usefulinsight into the ideas that medical practitioners are now advised to adopt. TheNHS pamphlet explains that gender variance in children can be identifi edby boys saying ‘they want to be girls, or that they actually are girls’ and girlswishing themselves to be or believing themselves to be boys (Departmentof Health, 2008 : 4). The pamphlet asserts that ‘gender variance’ in its ‘severe’form is ‘biologically triggered’, ‘small parts of the baby’s brain progress along adiff erent pathway from the sex of the rest of its body’ (Department of Health, : 5). In fact research to suggest that behaviours commonly associatedwith ‘gender’ diff erence are biological is very thin on the ground and likelyto be as fl awed as all forms of brain research are in proving that gender diff er-ences are inscribed in nature and not nurture (Fine, 2010 ).Like the handbooks and online resources emerging from the UnitedStates on the need to transgender children for their own good, the NHSpamphlet uses strong persuasion to pressure health practitioners to acceptthe practice, stressing the extreme distress that children they consider to be‘transgender’ experience at puberty. Treatment is justifi ed as a way to avoiddifficulties with ‘passing’ in adulthood: ‘The irreversible eff ects cause life-long disadvantage because they often make it difficult, or even impossibleto ‘pass’, that is, to look and sound completely like a person of the oppos-ite sex’ (Department of Health, 2008 : 13). The anxieties of adult men whoare transgendered are clearly revealed here, as the pamphlet states that those who are not transgendered as children ‘may be “read” on the street and con-sequently may suff er prejudice, harassment, humiliation and even violence’(Department of Health, 2008 : 13). The language of being ‘read’ is commonto the argot of men who cross-dress, and its use suggests that the concerns ofadult males who may have quite diff erent experiences and interests are beingtransferred onto children, for whom they may be entirely inappropriate.Identifying ‘transgender’ childrenChildren are diagnosed with ‘gender identity’ disorder as a result of engagingin socially unacceptable behaviour, specifi cally behaviour considered unsuitedto the child’s biological sex. As such, I argue, the transgendering of childrenshould be understood as a project of social engineering that has similaritiesto the practice of sexual surgeries that were carried out on persons seen asengaging in socially unacceptable behaviour in the previous era of eugenics.In the earlier period the problematic behaviours included chronic poverty,homosexuality and criminality. In this section I will illustrate the sociallyunacceptable ‘gender’ practices that lead to the diagnosis of a child as havinggender identity disorder. Physicians are faced with the difficulty of distin-guishing children whom they consider to be ‘genuinely’ in need of beingtransgendered from those many who, as they readily admit, are likely to haveworries about gender but do not wish to be transgendered when they areadults (Department of Health, 2008 ). The NHS pamphlet does not createconfi dence in the process by which this is accomplished:As puberty approaches, the leading clinics will make a careful assess-ment of which children are almost certain to develop as transsexualadults and which are unlikely to do so. No physical test is availablefor detecting and measuring gender variance that may develop intoadult dysphoria and transsexualism. Hence, clinicians must rely on theyoung person’s own account of his, or her feelings, or informationfrom the parents about the way the child talks and behaves and onpsychological tests.(Department of Health, 2008 : 17)The main indicator that they use, though, is likely to be the responseof the child to the physical changes of early puberty. Unfortunately, thesedays, puberty is arriving earlier and earlier for children. Precocious puberty isidentifi ed by the Boston Children’s Hospital, which treats ‘transgender’ chil-dren, as before age eight for girls and as before age nine for boys (Staff ord, ). If the logic underlying the transgendering of children is accepted, thenchildren might have to be identifi ed and treated with drugs even before theseages, as the pamphlet advises intervention early enough to suspend physicalchanges before they begin.The diagnostic criteria for ‘gender dysphoria’ in children, previouslyknown as ‘gender identity disorder in childhood’, appear in the new edition,number 5, of the US Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM) in 2013. Thecriteria are based upon traditional gender stereotypes that have been con-structed to confi ne and limit the behaviour of girls and justify their inferiorstatus in diff erent societies. Boys’ behaviour, on the other hand, is constructedto justify their superior status. Children with gender dysphoria must have ‘astrong desire to be of the other gender or an insistence that he or she is theother gender’. The indicators that they are of the ‘other gender’ are:in boys, a strong preference for cross-dressing or simulating femaleattire; in girls, a strong preference for wearing only typical masculineclothing and a strong resistance to the wearing of typical feminineclothing; a strong preference for cross-gender roles in make-believe orfantasy play; a strong preference for the toys, games, or activities typicalof the other gender; a strong preference for playmates of the other gen-der; in boys, a strong rejection of typically masculine toys, games, andactivities and a strong avoidance of rough-and-tumble play; in girls, astrong rejection of typically feminine toys, games, and activities.(Winters, 2011 )The children should also have ‘clinically signifi cant distress or impairment insocial, occupational, or other areas of functioning’. The way in which thesediagnostic criteria are applied in practice can be ascertained from the tran-scripts of the judgements made by the Family Court of Australia in caseswhere puberty delaying drugs for children were approved.Examples from AustraliaAustralia is in the forefront of transgendering children, which is carried outby order of the Family Court and is usually requested by the parents orguardians of the children. When the thirteen-year-old girl called ‘Alex’ wastransgendered through the Family Court in 2004, it was fi ve years before theEndocrine Society issued their guidelines on the practice (Family Court ofAustralia, 2004 ; Jeff reys, 2006 ). The age at which the court was prepared toauthorise the practice then started to go down. In 2008 a twelve-year-oldgirl, ‘Brodie’, was trangendered (Family Court, 2008 ). The youngest child inrelation to whom such an order was made, in April 2011, was ‘Jamie’, whowas a ten-year-old boy, and was said to have been living as a girl for threeyears (Family Court of Australia, 2011 ). In the court cases the evidence of psychiatrists, endocrinologists, social workers and parents is used to diagnosethe child as having the disorder in order to begin treatment. The case of‘Jamie’ provides a useful example of how this works. Jamie was one of twinboys of ten years and ten months of age. Agreement in the court to the trans-gendering of Jamie was straightforward because he was identifi ed as ‘a veryattractive young girl with long blonde hair’, that is he conformed really wellwith cultural stereotypes of what a girl should look like (Family Court ofAustralia, 2011 , Reasons for Judgement, 2). Jamie’s parents gave the necessaryevidence to prove that Jamie had the disorder, saying that hebegan identifying with the female gender when she (the tran-script uses female pronouns) was about 2 ½ to 3 ½ years old. She chosefemale orientated toys, began to identity with female characters ontelevision or in movies, and told her mother: ‘Mummy, I don’t want awilly, I want a vagina.’(Family Court of Australia, 2011 , Reasons for Judgement, 12)He also ‘sought the friendship of girls’ (Family Court of Australia, 2011 ,Reasons for Judgement, 14). According to his mother the ‘turning point’ waswhen Jamie wanted to wear a ‘ball gown’ on an outing to see Phantom of theOpera (Family Court of Australia, 2011 , Reasons for Judgement, 17). Jamiewas taken to see a psychiatrist in October, 2007 when he was seven yearsold, and was diagnosed as having gender identity disorder in December ofthat year.The court experts adjudicate as to whether the child in the case beforethem is performing gender in an appropriate way. Thus evidence for Jamie’sfeminine gender was gleaned from the fact that he ‘had the ambition to bea “female pop singing star” and performed for her male psychiatrist in a“very feminine and creative way”’ (Family Court of Australia, 2011 : 42). Oneexpert explained that Jamie looked ‘convincingly female in every way’, des-pite the fact that he ‘had typical male genitalia with a normal penis and testes.Her chromosomes were those of a typical male’ (Family Court of Australia, : 50). The arguments used as moral pressure to promote the transgender-ing of children that we have seen from GIRES are produced in the court.Dr C says that there was no time to lose in delaying Jamie’s puberty in orderto ‘prevent the psychological distress that Jamie would experience if malepuberty were to progress’ (Family Court of Australia, 2011 : 54). Jamie was indanger, Dr C said, of ‘an increased likelihood of major mental disorder andbehavioural difficulties, including severe depression and anxiety disorders andrisk of self-harm’ (Family Court of Australia, 2011 : 63).When cases involving the transgendering of girls are heard at the FamilyCourt the diagnostic criteria change to refl ect stereotypes of how boysshould behave. In the case of twelve-year-old ‘Brodie’, she is described by hermother as always behaving ina way that I would describe as like a boy and she likes to dress like aboy and when we go shopping for clothes, (Brodie) will always look topurchase clothes from the body [ sic ] section of the particular store …She has worn boy’s underwear since she was about six years’ old.(Family Court of Australia, 2008 : 55)Choice of underwear seems to be important as it is mentioned in a num-ber of sources that provide advice on identifying children who should betransgendered. In the case of Brodie, as in that of ‘Alex’ who was transgen-dered in 2004, a main reason given for hastening treatment was the fact thatthese girls were very angry (Jeff reys, 2006 ). In Brodie’s case she was veryaggressive and bullied her younger sister. The reason for the anger of thechildren in the Family Court cases was not pursued, though it was com-monly suggested that treatment for transgenderism would alleviate its worstexcesses. Transgendering children, then, can function as a form of behaviourmanagement.The only clinic that treats ‘transgender’ children in Australia is at the RoyalChildren’s Hospital in Melbourne, so it does seem likely that the childrenin the above cases were processed there. In a study of the eff ectiveness of itstreatment, the clinic has announced that the numbers approaching it haveincreased ‘eightfold’ between 2003 when it was set up and 2011, meaningfrom one child per year to eight children per year (Hewitt et al ., 2012 ). Theincrease is explained as arising from a greater awareness of the treatment pos-sibilities – ‘improved awareness of a medical service for children with GID’ –rather than to a real increase in the incidence of the problem. The increase isindeed likely to be a result of greater publicity about the phenomenon andits treatment. But rather than this enabling more children possessed of someessential and always existing problem to come forward, the publicity couldcreate ‘transgender’ children by enabling parents to identify quite ordinarybehaviour in young children as disordered, and create this understanding intheir off spring. The clinic noted that in all its patients gender dysphoria wasseen at about three years of age, though the children did not present for treat-ment until a ‘mean age’ of ten years old.Perhaps surprisingly, considering the quite extreme forms of hormonaland surgical treatment of children and teenagers taking place in the present,there is an absence of criticism of the transgendering of children in socialscience literature and from feminist scholars. This is likely to be the result ofthe fact that critical analysis of the practice of transgenderism in general hasdeclined to the point of invisibility in the last two decades. Absence of critical literature on transgenderismThough there are important connections between the early twentieth-cen-tury eugenics practice of carrying out sexual surgeries and sterilisation ofthe unfi t for purposes of social control and social engineering, and the trans-gendering of adults and children in the late twentieth and early twenty-fi rstcenturies, these practices have not been linked together in scholarly litera-ture. Indeed there is an absence of critical literature in politics and the socialsciences today on transgenderism. In relation to the transgendering of chil-dren, critical work in the social sciences, with a few exceptions (Gottschalk, ; Jeff reys, 2006 ), is remarkably absent. The increasing quantity of socialscience literature on the ‘transgender’ child is not critical, or analytical. Itconsists of handbooks for social workers, for parents (Brill and Pepper, 2008 ;Mallon, 2009 ) and for teachers. All of this literature speaks of ‘affirming’ the‘transgender’ child and the positive tone of the materials can be adducedfrom the titles of two examples, ‘Working with Transgender Children andTheir Classmates in Pre-Adolescence: Just Be Supportive’ (Luecke, 2011 ),and ‘Trans-Friendly Pre-School’ (Dykstra, 2005 ). Unfortunately, parents andprofessionals working with children these days are likely to believe that gen-der diff erence is biological rather than socially constructed.Despite the absence of critical work in relation to the practice of trans-genderism in the social sciences literature, there is an emerging critique inthe clinical literature. The psychologists Susan Langer and James Martin, forinstance, argue that the diagnosis of gender identity disorder in childhood‘serves primarily to advance a political or social agenda’ (Langer and Martin, : 15), and the ‘mental health community’ should take a ‘strong standagainst the continuation of GIDC as a sanctioned diagnostic category’ (Langerand Martin, 2004 : 19). There are other mental health professionals criticisingthe diagnosis of gender identity disorder in childhood and adulthood, particu-larly for the way that it facilitates the social control of homosexuality (Bower, ; Wilson et al ., 2002 ). However, neither the earlier critical literature, northat which is beginning to emerge from mental health professionals in thepresent, connects transgenderism in any form to the history of eugenics. Inthe next section I will identify some connections between the transgenderingof children and eugenics practice that may help inform the development of amore critical social science literature.Connections between transgenderism andeugenics practiceThere is a burgeoning literature on eugenics campaigns and practices fromsocial historians and historians of science, which provides evidence of ideasand practices that are echoed in the contemporary practice of transgender-ism. This literature describes how the eugenics movement developed in theUnited States (Largent, 2008 ; Reilly, 1991 ) and in Europe (Lucassen, 2010 )and became centred on the practice of sterilisation. Some point out that thispractice, though it was mostly brought to an end in the 1970s, lingers on,particularly in relation to teenage girls who are considered at risk of preg-nancy because they are vulnerable to sexual predation (Largent, 2008 ). Thisliterature makes few connections with the contemporary practice of trans-gendering children despite the fact that this, like the sterilisation of the unfi t,is carried out by sexual scientists for the purpose of social engineering.The ideological foundations of eugenics emerged from the work of FrancisGalton, cousin of Charles Darwin (Largent, 2008 ). They were adopted andpromoted by biologists, sexologists and psychiatrists who were politicallyleftwing such as J.B.S. Haldane and Henry Havelock Ellis in the UK, andAuguste Forel in Switzerland (Lucassen, 2010 ). It is relevant that all of thesemen saw themselves as socialists because, in the twenty-century, the prac-tice of transgendering men, women and children has been adopted as an issueof positive human rights by progressive people such as the Left theorist JudithButler, rather than as a practice that violates rights (Butler, 2004 ). The Leftof the late nineteenth and early twentieth century was generally supportiveof eugenic ideas, as exemplifi ed by Sydney and Beatrice Webb of the FabianSociety in the UK (Lucassen, 2010 ). In Sweden social engineering throughthe sterilisation of the unfi t was adopted enthusiastically by the Myrdals, soci-ologists associated with the founding of the Swedish welfare state. Legislationto enable the sterilisation of the unfi t was adopted in Sweden in the 1920sand from then until the 1970s, 63,000 persons were sterilised, 90 per cent ofthem women. Eugenics was adopted on the Left as a way to create a better‘race’, meaning, at that time, ‘nation’.Importantly, eugenicist ideas, including sterilisation of the unfi t, wereadopted by many feminists before the Second World War. The US birthcontrol campaigner Margaret Sanger was one of them. In 1932 she soughtto explain how eugenics could lead to an end to war through preventingoverpopulation, particularly of the unfi t, which she considered an import-ant cause (Sanger, 1932 ). These measures included immigration policies toprevent entry of the unfi t, segregation of the unfi t so that they could notreproduce, and sterilisation. Immigration controls, she said, should keep out‘feebleminded, idiots, morons, insane, syphilitic, epileptic, criminal, profes-sional prostitutes, and others’ and a ‘stern and rigid policy of sterilization andsegregation’ should be applied to those who might have ‘tainted progeny’.People should, she considered, be given the choice of segregation or steril-isation. The British birth control campaigner, Marie Stopes, too was inspiredby eugenicist ideas and concerned to limit the breeding of persons who were not of sufficient ‘quality’. She opined in a BBC interview as late as 1957, ‘Weare breeding rubbish’ (quoted in Garrett, 2007 : xlii). The extent to whichfeminists embraced eugenics before the Second World War in the UK is atopic of controversy among historians. There is general agreement that femi-nists tended to include eugenic language in their theory and practice in orderto make themselves more persuasive and easily understood, but their degreeof commitment is another matter (Bland, 1995 ; Makepeace, 2009 ). However,the absence of criticism, or active support, of the practice of transgenderingadults and children, by those who see themselves as progressive or even fem-inist in the present, should not surprise, as there is a history of such supportfor similar projects in the earlier period.Sexual surgeriesEugenics practice was centred on the performance of sexual surgeries onthose considered unfi t, and the practice of sterilisation of the unfi t in theUSA illustrates its scope and acceptability. Two-thirds of the states in theUnited States passed compulsory sterilisation laws between 1907 and (Largent, 2008 : 65). Sterilisation was not just carried out for eugenic pur-poses, i.e. to prevent reproduction of defective children, but to punish, and fortherapeutic purposes such as changing unacceptable behaviour. The sexualsurgeries carried out on those considered unfi t included complete castrationwith removal of the testes, as well as the less invasive practice of sterilisationthrough vasectomy. Largent explains that, in the United States, amputationof the testes and scrotum was used from the late nineteenth century up tothe 1930s to ‘treat, punish or control hundreds of rapists, child molesters,and men who engaged in activities associated with homosexuality’ (Largent, : 5). He calls this practice ‘mutilation’, and it was mostly practised onmen who were in mental hospitals and prisons. He explains that the reasonsgiven changed over time, going from ‘punitive and eugenic’ to ‘therapeuticand prophylactic’ over four decades. The psychiatrists involved in sexual sur-geries regularly used them as a ‘cure’ for women’s unacceptable behaviour.At the end of the nineteenth century in the United States, G. Alder Blumerrecommended ‘gynaecologic surgery’ for women patients (Dowbiggin, 1997 :). He considered that ‘insanity was a genital refl ex’, an idea that was wide-spread from 1850–1900 and led to the removal of women’s wombs and ovar-ies. In particular he recommended such surgery for women who were loudand vulgar in their language.One signifi cant connection between the heyday of eugenics and the trans-gendering of children today is that lesbians and gay men form a constituencythat is targeted by both practices. The grim details of the control and pun-ishment of lesbians and gay men by the scientists of sex throughout mostof the twentieth century was laid out in the earliest, gay liberation-inspired,history of lesbians and gay men in the United States, Jonathan Katz’s GayAmerican History ( 1976 ). Katz writes that, ‘Lesbians and Gay men have longbeen subjected to a varied, often horrifying list of “cures” at the hands ofpsychiatric-psychological professionals, treatments usually aimed at asexu-alization or heterosexual reorientation’ (Katz, 1976 : 197). These treatments,which went on well into the second half of the twentieth century, includedsurgeries such as castration, hysterectomy and vasectomy. Women were sub-jected in the nineteenth century to surgical removal of the ovaries and of theclitoris, a treatment designed as a ‘cure’ for various forms of what was calledfemale ‘erotomania’ and included lesbianism. Lobotomy was performed as lateas the 1950s. A range of drug therapies were also used such as the adminis-tration of hormones, LSD, sexual stimulants and sexual depressants, alongsideother treatments such as hypnosis and electric and chemical shock treatment,and aversion therapy (ibid.). Katz comments that the homosexual victims ofsexual surgeries were sometimes ‘acquiescent’, and sought out treatment, asthose requesting to be transgendered do today. Indeed involuntariness is by nomeans a necessary element in eugenics practices generally. Katz explains thatthe case histories he examined in his research showed:Numbers of these histories concern guilt-ridden, self-hating homo-sexuals, who have so internalized society’s condemnation that they seekout cruel forms of treatment as punishment; they play what can onlybe termed a masochistic game, in which the doctor is assigned, andaccepts, a truly sadistic (as well as remunerative) role.(Katz, 1976 : 200)Katz does not include the transgendering of homosexual men and lesbianswithin these abusive medical treatments, but Bernice Hausman, in her fem-inist critique of transgenderism, does (Hausman, 1995 ). Hausman argues thatthe treatment of intersexuality and transsexuality in the mid-twentieth cen-tury was motivated to a large extent by the desire to reduce the possibility ofhomosexuality and to create heterosexual citizens.Despite the similarity between the control of homosexuality in eugenicspractice and in transgenderism, this is seldom discussed in the social scienceliterature today. The fact that many of the men and most of the womenwho seek to transition are homosexual before treatment is, nonetheless, anopen secret. Though males seeking to be transgendered may be attracted towomen or other men, it is recognised that the women are generally lesbiansbefore they are diagnosed as ‘transgender’: ‘Virtually all females with gen-der identity disorder will receive the same specifi er – Sexually Attracted toFemale – although there are exceptional cases involving females who are sexually Attracted to Males’ (Mental Health Today, n.d.). Professionals involvedin treating gender identity disorder in childhood are aware that three-quarters of the boys referred for diagnosis by their parents will be homosexualor bisexual when they reach adulthood (ibid.). The lawyer and transgenderrights activist, Shannon Minter, has provided a compilation of quotationsfrom sexologists and those involved in the creation and implementation ofthe diagnosis of gender identity that is designed to make evident their desireto prevent the development of homosexuality (Minter, 1999 ). Minter argues‘If GID in children was not strongly associated with homosexuality in adult-hood’, it is unlikely that cross-gender behaviours in children ‘would have beendesignated psychiatric disorders or become the focus of an entire clinical fi elddevoted to … “correcting” cross-gender behaviors’ (Minter, 1999 : 27).The interest of eugenicists in the control and punishment of homosexual-ity was a part of their interest in the creation of properly gendered and sexedfamilies and children, an aspect of the movement that relates clearly to thetransgendering of children that takes place today. The historian of the USeugenics movement, Alexandra Stern, explains how the eugenics movementshifted focus after the Second World War to concentrate on making familiesconform to its idea of appropriate gender roles (Stern, 2005 ). Stern explainsthat in the 1950s there was less enthusiasm for the more familiar practicesof eugenics that were stigmatised by association with Nazism, such as steril-isation, though, as she says, these by no means came to an end, and the lawsstayed on the books. Instead eugenicists gravitated towards what was called‘positive’ eugenics, concentrating on population control and ‘often began tolocate the marrow of human diff erentiation not in racial distinctions … butin sex and gender’, such that ‘the racism of the 1920s was rearticulated intothe sexism of the 1950s’ (Stern, 2005 : 154). The American Institute of FamilyRelations (AIFR), which was a main motor of eugenic population policy inthe 1950s, and its director, Paul Popenoe, promoted a ‘family-centric eugen-ics that demanded sex and gender uniformity’ and promoted the idea that themale/female distinction was the greatest that could exist between two humanbeings. It was based on evolution, nature and genetics (Stern, 2005 : 155).When clients were assessed for counselling by the AIFR, the step was‘gauging the degree to which their gender identity and comportment cor-responded to their anatomical sex’ (Stern, 2005 : 167). They were then treatedon the basis of ideas emanating at that time from ‘psychiatry, psychometrics,endocrinology and sex research’ (Stern, 2005 : 180). This form of eugenicspractice is exemplifi ed in the way in which sexologists in this period devel-oped ideas of ‘gender’ and ‘gender identity’ and used them in their approachto children they identifi ed as intersex, and in their treatment of transgender-ism, a practice that continues today (Hausman, 1995 ; Meyerowitz, 2002 ). Theavoidance of homosexuality and the construction of robustly heterosexual,and gendered, families, children and adults motivated the sexologists of theperiod.The continuation of this branch of eugenics throws into question theextent to which the eugenics movement has gone into retreat. Though theacceptability of sterilising some constituencies of the ‘unfi t’ has lessened,sterilisation and sexual surgeries on children identifi ed as transgender is anincreasing trend, as this chapter seeks to show. Largent ( 2008 ) identifi es whathe sees as the fi nal death of the American eugenics movement as taking placein the 1980s. It took decades from the 1930s onwards, he explains, to bringit to an end. Opposition to sterilisation of the unfi t came from civil rightsorganisations, and movements ‘focusing on race, gender, sexual orientation,class, and physical and mental disabilities’ as well as those advocating for therights of prisoners and mental health patients (Largent, 2008 : 140). However,the practice of sterilising children with intellectual disabilities continues inmany countries, including the United States. Researchers in Australia foundthat between 1992 and 1997 there were around 200 sterilisations of younggirls performed in Australian hospitals every year (Brady and Grover, 1997 ).The practice is strongly opposed by disability rights’ groups such as WomenWith Disabilities Australia (WWDA, 2007 ).A groundswell of human rights activism against coerced sterilisation ofwomen as a violation of women’s reproductive rights is now developing,which uses concepts that could also be applied to the sterilisation of chil-dren identifi ed as transgender. The Centre for Reproductive Rights in NewYork, for instance, considers that coerced sterilisation, that is without fulland unpressured consent, should be considered ‘cruel, inhumane or degrad-ing treatment or punishment’ (Center for Reproductive Rights, 2010 ). Theyargue that ‘Experts recognize that the permanent deprivation of one’s repro-ductive capacity without informed consent generally results in psychologicaltrauma, including depression and grief ’ (Center for Reproductive Rights, : 20). The Center points out that the Human Rights Council has statedthat coercive sterilisation violates the right to be free from ‘torture and CIDT(cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment), as provided for under the ICCPR(International Convention on Cultural and Political Rights)’ (Center forReproductive Rights, 2010 : 20). Coercive sterilisation is recognised by thecommittee that oversees the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms ofDiscrimination Against Women (CEDAW), the Centre states, as infringingthe ‘rights to human dignity and physical and mental integrity’ (Center forReproductive Rights, 2010 : 20). In relation to children who are transgen-dered, the question arises of the extent to which they can be seen as unco-erced, considering that their parents, the medical profession, and the courtsare advocating this treatment for them, and they are told that it will alleviatetheir mental distress. Sterilisation of transgendered children and otherlong-term adverse health effectsThe eff ects of the drug treatment and sexual surgeries that constitute thetransgendering of children are such as to harm their reproductive rights, aswell as their bodily integrity and future health, and can therefore be seen as aparticularly harmful form of the abuse of children. There are some diff erencesbetween the sterilisation that forms part of the practice of transgenderingchildren today and the sexual surgeries of the earlier eugenic period. Eugenicsexual surgeries were regularly aimed at sterilisation, rather than having ster-ilisation as a side eff ect. But they had other aims too, such as preventing mas-turbation or criminal behaviour, which resemble the aims of transgenderismtoday of eliminating unacceptable behaviour, in this case gender non-con-formity. Also, in the earlier period, sterilisation was usually non-consensual,whereas the sterilisation carried out as part of treatment for gender identitydisorder today is usually seen as an unfortunate side eff ect of a wanted pro-cess. But it should be remembered that homosexual males, in particular, didseek out the sexual surgeries that formed a part of eugenic practice.Treatment with puberty delaying drugs leads to sterilisation if it is fol-lowed with the administration of cross-sex hormones at sixteen years, as theBrill and Pepper handbook on ‘transgender’ children ( 2008 ) explains: ‘thechoice to progress from GnRH inhibitors to estrogen without fully experi-encing male puberty should be viewed as giving up one’s fertility, and thefamily and child should be counseled accordingly’ (Brill and Pepper, 2008 :). For girls, sterilisation is the outcome too because ‘eggs do not matureuntil the body goes through puberty’ (ibid.). The issue of fertility, the hand-book asserts, may bother parents more than the ‘teens’, because the latter maythink short term and not be able to contemplate much more than gettingtransgendered in the present (Brill and Pepper, 2008 : 220). The handbookspeaks of other serious eff ects of the transgender treatment, such as that birthdefects may occur in children born to ‘transmen (female-bodied transgen-ders) taking testosterone prior to pregnancy’ (Brill and Pepper, 2008 : 219).It also warns that genital surgery can lead to the absence of sexual feeling,and comments that young people may not understand the importance ofthis (Brill and Pepper, 2008 : 220). But, the handbook advises, ‘teens’ can havesexual surgeries such as the removal of testes or breast removal at any age, notnecessarily eighteen, so long as their parents and a surgeon are willing (ibid.).This does seem to contradict the warnings that accompany this advice, aboutthe difficulty ‘teens’ may have in understanding the implications of such sur-geries for fertility and sexual pleasure.The issue of sterilisation was addressed by the Australian Family Courtin the cases involving the treatment of ‘Alex’, ‘Brodie’ and ‘Jamie’. In eachcase it was suggested that the child had sufficient understanding to make adecision that could lead to sterilisation, and where they may not fully under-stand, their parents could make such a decision for them. The judgement inthe case involving ten-year-old ‘Jamie’ explains that he understands he willbecome sterile, and does this with an interesting contradiction of pronounsand biological sex: ‘Jamie is aware that subsequent treatment with femalehormones, when she is older, may then aff ect her capacity for sperm gen-eration’ (Family Court of Australia, 2011 : 92). But because Jamie ‘does nothave the level of maturity to be responsible for decisions of such gravity’ theparents are given the ‘responsibility to make such decisions in consultationwith Jamie’.Children are also quite unlikely to be able to give informed consent touse of the harmful drugs involved in transgender ‘treatment’. The drug mostcommonly used to delay puberty in children is Lupron, a drug approvedfor the treatment of prostate cancer but commonly used in IVF treatmentand to treat endometriosis in women. There is increasing concern amongwomen’s health activists about the serious side eff ects of this drug, with per-haps the most serious in relation to children being loss of bone density. Inone study researchers found that women lost as much as 7.3 per cent of theirbone density during treatment (Flin, 2008 ). The drug also causes birth defectsand is contraindicated when there is a possibility of pregnancy. Side eff ectsreported to the US Food and Drug Administration by thousands of patientsinclude: tingling, itching, headache and migraine, dizziness, severe joint pain,difficulty breathing, chest pain, nausea, depression, emotional instability, dim-ness of vision, fainting, weakness, amnesia, hypertension, muscular pain, bonepain, nausea/vomiting, asthma, abdominal pain, insomnia, chronic enlarge-ment of the thyroid, liver function abnormality, vision abnormality, anxietyand others (Flin, 2008 ). Usage of this drug for delaying puberty in childrenis ‘off label’, meaning that it has not been approved for this purpose andis a hazardous and experimental practice. It is particularly problematic touse such a potentially harmful drug to treat the bodies of children who areentirely healthy, and whose only perceived fl aw is that they are deemed tohave socially unacceptable behaviour.A particularly serious eff ect of transgendering children is the distress theyare likely to suff er when they change their minds. A British case of a boy whowas a poster child for the practice demonstrates the harms. Bradley Coopercame out as a gay man in 2012, two months before the amputation of hispenis. He was celebrated as the youngest British ‘sex change patient’ when hewas put on hormones at sixteen, and the National Health Service agreed topay for the £10,000 amputation surgery that he would have once he reachedeighteen (Schlesinger, 2010 ). Bradley appeared as ‘Ria’ on chat shows andhad gained a certain renown, before, at 18 years old, he changed his mind. The young hairdresser said that he started to wear women’s clothes at twelvewhen he ‘would borrow his mother’s lipstick and wear clothes belonging tohis three sisters’. After less than a year of living full-time as a woman Bradleydecided to de-transition as a result of severe mental distress. He cancelledSRS and stopped taking hormones, saying that ‘she has found the changesoverwhelming and that they have made her deeply unhappy’ (ibid.). Bradleyhad received a thorough psychological assessment before starting his tran-sition, but nonetheless tried to commit suicide twice during the precedingyear, attributing this to the mood swings associated with hormone treatmentand distress ‘about how alone I am, and how my decision has alienated myfamily’ (Winter, 2012 ). Bradley became so lonely, he said, that he even enteredprostitution for the company. At the time of his decision to de-transition, hewas jobless and homeless, sleeping on friends’ fl oors. Bradley hopes to fi ndit easier to have relationships as a gay man: ‘She believes she will have betterluck in love as a ‘trendy’ gay man’ (ibid.). Cooper’s case makes it clear that thepsychiatrists cannot know if they are dealing with a genuinely ‘transgender’child, and the very serious harms that he suff ered should serve to throwdoubt on the edifi ce of ‘gender dysphoria’.In the twenty-century, decades after sexual surgeries on the ‘unfi t’ foreugenic, punishment and therapeutic reasons were mostly abandoned, a simi-lar practice is increasingly being carried out on children who are consideredto be innately ‘transgender’ because they are disobeying culturally acceptablegender roles. A form of social engineering to force children to conform torigid gender categories is taking place. The history of sexual surgeries needsto be connected with this contemporary practice in order to cast a morecritical light on what is happening today. Ian Dowbiggin, historian of NorthAmerican eugenics, writes about the way the medical profession adopted thepractice of sterilising the unfi t in a fashion that could equally be applied tothe adoption of the transgendering of children:It is a story of human fallibility, of human beings who, when faced withthe daunting challenge of caring for emotionally and mentally disabledpeople, resorted to extreme theories and practices. Most of these menand women were convinced they were absolutely right, even whenthey might have known better.(Dowbiggin, 1997 : x)Today’s transgendering of children is similar to the earlier history of sex-ual surgeries in that progressive people, including many feminists, feel thatthis is a reasonable practice, and have not yet begun to criticise it. Feministresearch and theory needs to recover the ability to criticise medicine andpsychiatry and the way that the scientists of sex treat those who fail to con-form to society’s norms, if the transgendering of children is to be eff ectivelychallenged.Transgender activists have been remarkably successful in a short time in theircampaign to achieve gender ‘rights’, an aim that enshrines the protection of‘gender’ in the law. As the male-bodied transgender activist Mara Keislingputs it, ‘there’s never been a social justice movement that has moved this fast… Things are zooming’ (Keisling, 2008 : 4). This chapter will examine theorigins of the campaign for gender rights, and the implications of its suc-cess. There is no scope here for a detailed examination of how the law haschanged in diff erent countries; rather, the chapter eff ects a critical examin-ation of what legal recognition of rights to ‘gender’ means for women in gen-eral. The ambitions of transgender activists were set out in 1995 in the UnitedStates in the International Bill of Transgender Rights (Frye, 2001 ). This wasnot a document that originated in any legislature or had any legal weight,but rather a wish list created by a group of transgender activists at a meeting,and at the time might well have seemed too outlandish to be taken seriouslyby lawmakers. But its precepts do now form the way in which gender rightshave been incorporated into domestic law in many states, and this makes itworthy of careful consideration. It demanded the right to express the ‘genderidentity’ of choice in whatever way the exponent desired, particularly in anyspaces previously reserved for women. Since then, equality and human rightslegislation has been updated and created in states across the Western worldthat incorporates the ‘right’ to express ‘gender identity’. As a result, gender,which consists of traditional stereotypes of appropriate behaviour for menand women that regulate male domination and women’s subordination, hasbecome a matter of state.Women’s and feminist groups are not invited to consult on such legalchanges, as if they would have nothing relevant to say despite the fact that menmay, under such legislation, gain the right to be recognised in law as ‘women’.Women are the ‘absent referent’ (Adams, 1990 ), not officially referred to, eventhough it is ‘women’ that the men who wish to express their ‘gender rights’seek to personate. There is no suggestion in legislation on the right to genderidentity that women will be included in, or advantaged by, the developments.Rather, in an increasingly vigorous feminist challenge, critics argue that suchlegislation creates two singular difficulties for women’s interests (Brennan andHungerford, 2011 ). It removes the possibility of women-only spaces, and itpromotes gender stereotypes that have long been recognised by feminist the-orists as the basic organising mechanism of male domination (MacKinnon, ; Jeff reys, 2005 ).The creation of the right to ‘gender identity’ creates a ‘clash of rights’ inwhich the rights demanded by one group of people can substantially endan-ger the rights of another group (Sniderman et al ., 1997 ). In a clash of rights,some adjudication has to be made as to whether the group involved in therights demand that compromises the rights of another group can be accom-modated in human rights norms. An example of the clash of rights is thatof campaigners for gay marriage against promoters of the right to religion(Masci, 2009 ). This kind of clash is about ideologies, wherein the success ofthe rights demand of one group would restrict the rights sought by another,in this case to marriage and ‘family life’. However, in the case of the cam-paign for the right to gender identity, the challenge is even more problem-atic and remarkable. The main demanders are from the sex caste of men, thedominant caste whose members are responsible for the violation of women’srights to live, for example, free from violence and the threat of death, to free-dom of movement and expression, to freedom from discrimination (Romito, ). Moreover, the demanders in this instance do not just claim that theyare disadvantaged in their own right, but that they actually are physicallymembers of the female sex caste, women, as in the demand by male-bodiedtransgenders that they should be able to enter spaces, such as toilets, set asidefor women.The wish list that constitutes the International Bill of Gender Rights(1995) was created by male-bodied persons in the United States who hadno experience of being reared in, or treated as, members of the female sexcaste, and their biographies reveal them to be unremarkably masculine men.They are men who chose to personate women with various degrees of ser-iousness as adults. The man who, according to his website, ‘authored’ the ori-ginal Bill of Gender Rights in 1990, which became the International Bill ofGender Rights, is JoAnn Roberts, a man whose personation of women isonly occasional. Roberts does not claim to be a woman, but a cross-dresser:‘I’m a crossdresser, divorced and remarried with two adult children’ (Roberts, ), who organises an event for cross-dressers called Beauty and the Beach,‘Crossdresser’s Getaway Weekend’ (ibid.).Another signifi cant fi gure in creating the fi nal document was Phyllis Frye,who is very proud of having been a robust and red-blooded, masculine man.In a journal article about the Bill, Frye seeks to establish his credentials ofhaving been a most successful and truly manly man before he decided to per-sonate a woman. While, as he puts it ‘trying to be a man’ he wasan Eagle Scout, holder of the God & Country Award, Senior Patrol Leader,Brotherhood member of the Order of the Arrow, and a Junior AssistantScoutmaster. At Thomas Jeff erson High School in San Antonio, I was inA Capella Choir, Yearbook Staff , Senior Play, lettered twice on the Rifl eTeam, was ROTC Commander, and was an ‘A’ student. At Texas A&MUniversity, I was in the Corps of Cadets, Singing Cadets, and completeda B.S. in Civil Engineering and an M.S. in Mechanical Engineeringwhile on four scholarships and one grant. I am a veteran and was hon-orably discharged as a 1st Lieutenant, U.S. Army in 1972. I obtained, andstill retain, a Texas Professional Engineering License in 1975.(Frye, 2000 : 133)Women are quite unlikely to have such a pedigree, but Frye says that he is awoman. He explains,As evident from the above accomplishments, I did not become awoman because I could not cut it as a man. I was very successful as aman, but it did not fi t my unshakable in-the-gut self-image of who Ireally was.(ibid.)He is a lawyer who has ‘been legally married to the same woman for twenty-eight years’ and has ‘a grown child by a previous marriage’ (ibid.). In 1992, hefounded the International Conference on Transgender Law and EmploymentPolicy (ICTLEP), which drew up the Bill of Gender Rights. He was awardedthe ‘Creator of Change’ Award from the National Gay and Lesbian TaskForce (1995) and the Virginia Prince Lifetime Contribution Award, namedafter the famous cross-dresser, from the International Foundation for GenderEducation (1999). Men who promote their rights to ‘gender identity’ fre-quently imagine womanhood from an unimpeachably masculine position,such as careers of military heroism (Tur, 2013 ). The desire of men to trans-gender, such accounts suggest, can be understood as an aspect of deeplyconservative and hypermasculine behaviour, rather than demonstrating anycommonality with women. It is from such roots, rather than any progressivefoundation, that the ‘right’ to gender emerged.Without seeking the advice of women, whose stereotypical form thesemen seek to imitate, Roberts and Frye produced the grandly titled International Bill of Gender Rights. An examination of these ‘rights’ showsthat they confl ict with women’s experience. The right that the Bill pro-claims is that ‘all human beings have the right to defi ne their own genderidentity regardless of chromosomal sex, genitalia, assigned birth sex, or initialgender role’ (Frye, 2000 : 212). In fact, women do not ‘defi ne’ their ‘gen-der identity’ and ‘gender identity’ has very little to do with being a woman.Women do not suff er discrimination on the grounds of their ‘identity’, an‘unshakable in-the-gut-self-image’ as Frye describes this, but on the groundsof being of the female sex.The second right in the Bill is ‘The Right to Free Expression of GenderIdentity’ (ibid.). This seems to mean the right of the male progenitors of thedocument to wear clothing more usually assigned to women. For women,stereotypical women’s clothing is not a right of expression, but enforced,through cultural expectations, legal systems, street harassment, the infl uenceof the sex industry, and workplace and school requirements (Jeff reys, 2005 ).Another right that these men demand is that of entering spaces set aside byor for women, ‘The Right of Access to Gendered Space and Participation inGendered Activity’ (Frye, 2000 : 213). Women-only spaces are either set asideon the grounds that women need the safety and security of places where menare not present, or on the grounds that women as a subordinate group needto be able to meet and organise without members of the ruling group pre-sent. Until recently, equal opportunity laws have sought to accommodate thisunderstanding by saying that, in some situations, women may indeed excludemen from services and events. In charters of rights and legislation on equality,women are regularly aff orded exemptions from the need to not discriminateon the grounds that as a vulnerable group, albeit a majority one, they mayneed to meet in women-only groups and require spaces such as women-onlytoilets (Victorian Equal Opportunity and Human Rights Commission, n.d.).This shows recognition of women as a group that needs special treatment.Unfortunately, the demands initiated by male-bodied transgenders and menwho cross-dress, because they claim to be ‘women’ and not men, aim to over-turn this recognised exemption for the protection of women’s spaces. Theother ‘rights’ in the Bill include ‘The Right to Control and Change One’sOwn Body’, ‘cosmetically, chemically, or surgically’, and the right to accessmedical treatment to achieve this. Cosmetic surgery has not been understoodby feminists to be an issue of women’s rights, but as problematic, and based inwomen’s subordinate position (Haiken, 1997 ; Sullivan, Deborah A, 2001 ).Gender rights in international lawThe International Bill of Gender Rights did not immediately lead to anygains by transgender lobbyists in relation to international law, but the lan-guage and concepts it expresses were increasingly taken up in campaigns tochange domestic law in Western countries in the succeeding decades. Beforethe move to ‘gender’, domestic laws on what were understood as the rights of‘transsexuals’ used the language of sex, not gender, and required persons whowished to change their sex to undertake surgery to become infertile beforethey could change their status on documents such as their birth certifi cate.This changed in the 2000s as the notion of ‘transsexualism’ came to be seenas restrictive, and the move to gender resulted in ‘gender rights’ covering abroad and vague spectrum of persons was incorporated into legislation onchange of status and in anti-discrimination statutes.The next signifi cant document relating to the right to gender identity thatpurports to be international came much later, in the Yogyakarta Principles,which arose from a meeting of a ‘distinguished group of 29 experts in inter-national law’ in Indonesia in 2006, and were formalised in 2007 (Ettelbrickand Zeran, 2010 : 30). Though not incorporated into any UN conventionsor declarations, the Principles, their promoters argue, have had great eff ectwithin the UN, being regularly cited and used as a reference point (ibid.).The Principles cover sexual orientation and gender identity. In terms of sex-ual orientation, the Principles do seem to constitute an important develop-ment for those seeking to challenge laws that still impose harsh punishmentson homosexuals in many countries. They form a basis for arguing for theprohibition of the considerable discrimination and violence that lesbians andgay men face, even where homosexuality is not illegal. The problem with thePrinciples is that they append ‘gender identity’ rights to rights based on sexualorientation. This is a puzzling conjunction, considering that homophobia hasbeen such an important cause of the construction of the idea of transsexualismand disorders of gender identity in the sexology of the late twentieth century.Despite this contradiction, the main organisations campaigning for theincorporation of ‘gender rights’ into law are lesbian and gay ones, includingthe International Lesbian and Gay Association, the US National Center forLesbian Rights (NCLR), and the US National Gay and Lesbian Taskforce.The National Center for Lesbian Rights states, ‘NCLR is proud to have beenthe LGBT legal organization to launch a Transgender Law Project’, andthis later became the Transgender Law Center (NCLR, n.d.). This develop-ment from a supposedly lesbian organisation is surprising, considering thatthe transgendering of lesbians extinguishes their lesbianism and few otherorganisations are dedicated to the abolition of the community they represent(Jeff reys, 2003 ). The main US lesbian and gay organisation, the National Gayand Lesbian Taskforce (NGLTF), also stresses the importance of transgenderrights to its core business: ‘Transgender people and issues are core to ourwork at the Task Force. We are proud of our history as one of the nationalLGBT organisations to include transgender people in our mission, starting in’ (NGLTF, n.d.).Transgender activists have worked hard to ensure the support of lesbianand gay groups, even going so far as to claim that homosexuality itself is justa form of transgenderism. Phyllis Frye, for instance, explains that he held aworkshop at the 1997 ‘Tenth Annual Creating Change Conference’ in SanDiego, which was sponsored by the NGLTF, along with Jamison Green andShannon Minter, ‘to ask the question, “Is sexual orientation a subset of genderidentity?” ’. He argues that ‘lesbians, gays and bisexuals are actually the subsetsand members of the larger gender identity community’ (Frye, 2000 : 154–155).This idea is repeated again in a report on ‘trans people’ in the UK: ‘There is astrong argument that much homophobic crime is actually transphobic, as it isa person’s gender presentation which attracts attention in public spaces ratherthan a prior knowledge of their sexual orientation’ (Whittle et al ., 2007 : 55).This seems to be a tenet of transgender activist ideology that is intended topersuade lesbian and gay groups to see a commonality of interest.Another serious problem with the Yogyakarta Principles is the confus-ing notion of ‘gender’ that pervades the document and which its defi nitionof ‘sexual orientation’ is based upon: ‘Sexual orientation is understood torefer to each person’s capacity for profound emotional, aff ectional and sexualattraction to, and intimate and sexual relations with, individuals of a diff erentgender or the same gender or more than one gender’ (International Panel ofExperts, 2007 : note 1). Lesbians and gay men who reject the idea of role play-ing will have problems with this assumption that homosexuals are attractedto persons on the basis of the same ‘gender’ rather than the same sex. Somemay reject the idea that they have a ‘gender’, and certainly be concernedas to why they should be assumed to be attracted to a person based on theperformance of masculinity or femininity. It is worrying that this degree ofprofound confusion is at the foundation of the campaign even by lesbian andgay organisations for ‘gender’ rights. The defi nition of ‘gender identity’ in thePrinciples is broad and vague and refl ects queer and transgender theory andessentialist notions of gender:each person’s deeply felt internal and individual experience of gen-der, which may or may not correspond with the sex assigned at birth,including the personal sense of the body (which may involve, if freelychosen, modifi cation of bodily appearance or function by medical, sur-gical or other means) and other expressions of gender, including dress,speech and mannerisms.(International Panel of Experts, 2007 : 6)In the Principles, the category of ‘sex’ is entirely omitted in favour of ‘gen-der’. They state that ‘violence, harassment, discrimination, exclusion, stigma-tisation’ are ‘directed against persons in all regions of the world because oftheir sexual orientation or gender identity, that these experiences are com-pounded by discrimination on grounds including gender, race, age, religion,disability, health and economic status’. Sex does not appear in this account,and as a result women are expunged, since discrimination against femalesstarts in the womb and is not related to ‘gender’. In a feminist and social con-structionist understanding, gender is a result and manifestation of the subor-dination of women as a sex caste, rather than the reason for it.The fact that ‘gender identity’ is increasingly defi ned as a moveable feastmay create difficulties for the interpretation of these legal Principles. A majorstudy of those identifying as ‘trans’ in the UK in 2007 acknowledged thattransgenderism does not constitute a defi ned category, saying that ‘[t]he cat-egories transvestite, transgender and transsexual are commonly understoodas discrete. This research has found that trans people have complex genderidentities, often moving from one “trans” category into another over time’(Whittle et al ., 2007 : 14). The survey found that 44 per cent of respondentsnot living permanently in their ‘preferred gender’ ‘intended to do so in thefuture’ and this ‘has implications for current law which off ers some legal pro-tections only for those who are understood as transsexual’ (ibid.). This degreeof fl exibility might be expected to create difficulties for lawmakers, since itimplies that the right to be considered a ‘woman’ in the law, which is how‘gender identity’ is generally interpreted, can be wielded by men who ‘dress’occasionally or just at weekends. For women, of course, their sex caste statusis a full-time and lifelong condition.Despite their problematic and confusing nature, the Yogyakarta Principleshave been seen as a very important development in the human rights domain(Ettelbrick and Zeran, 2010 ; O’Flaherty and Fisher, 2008 ). Though they arenot binding in international law, they have been understood as ‘an authorita-tive interpretation of international law’ (Ettelbrick and Zeran, 2010 : 11) andhave ‘catapulted discussion and action on human rights related to sexualorientation and gender identity to new highs within the United Nations’,and they ‘provide an important universal defi nitional point’ for ‘hundredsof academic papers, bills, resolutions and other documents’ (Ettelbrick andZeran, 2010 : 13). Human Rights Watch calls them ‘A groundbreaking set ofprinciples on sexual orientation, gender identity, and international law … alandmark advance in the struggle for basic human rights as well as genderequality’ (Human Rights Watch, 2007 ). Unfortunately, ‘gender equality’ is notpossible because ‘gender’ is a hierarchy, but this assumption by Human RightsWatch that the Principles will somehow advantage women shows the seriousconfusion that the language of gender has created in the human rights com-munity. The piggy-backing of the right to ‘gender’ onto lesbian and gay rightshas the eff ect that any advances in lesbian and gay rights will also deepen theclash of rights that the idea of a right to gender creates for women. This ismost unfortunate, since there is no doubt that the advancement of rights forlesbians and gay men is of great importance.An example of the impact of the Principles on policymakers can be foundin the 2011 report from the office of the Director-General for Justice of theEuropean Commission, which spelt out the importance of eliminating dis-crimination on the grounds of ‘sex, gender identity and gender expression’(Agius and Tobler, 2011 ). The report, which is likely to be infl uential since itemanates from such a source, is based on all the problematic and confusingnotions common to queer theory discourse on gender. It states that ‘negativeattitudes towards trans and intersex people’ are often ‘directly correlated tothe importance that a determinate society places on the binary gender model,as well as the levels of gender stereotypes, sexism and gender inequalities thatexist within it’ (Agius and Tobler, 2011 : 5). A feminist analysis is rather diff er-ent, and understands the ‘gender binary’ and inequality based upon biologicalsex to be the cause of the very concept, ‘gender identity’, which the reportseeks to protect. The report’s defi nition of ‘trans’ is so broad as to be almostmeaningless:Indeed the term trans is an umbrella term that includes, but is not lim-ited to men and women with transsexual pasts and people who iden-tify as transsexual, transgender, transvestite/cross-dressing, androgyne,polygender, genderqueer, agender, gender variant or with any othergender identity and gender expression which is not standard male orfemale, and who express their gender through their choice of clothes,presentation, body modifi cations, including the undergoing of multiplesurgical procedures.(ibid.)One group of persons that is not included is that quite large group thateschews gender altogether and refuses to obey any of the social demands todemonstrate a particular gender on their persons, many of whom, but not all,are lesbian or gay. They are not ‘trans’ because they do not fetishise gender inany form, but simply choose to live without it.The implications of incorporating genderstereotypes in the lawThere are two troubling implications of incorporating the protection of ‘gen-der’ in the law that will be considered here through the examination of twosupposedly pioneering examples of legal change, the UK Gender RecognitionAct of 2004 and the Australian Amendment to the Sex Discrimination Act of. The implication is that when gender is inscribed in law this createslegal protection for the traditional gender stereotypes that originate in thesex caste system. The second is that the increasing vagueness of the category‘gender’ enables men to gain protection in law for their impersonation ofwomen, even when they are physically entire, and therefore capable of bothraping and impregnating women and girls, and when they are but occasionalcross-dressers. Whereas once ‘transsexuals’ were required to have a diagnosisof gender identity disorder, have performed a real life test of living as theopposite sex and to have undergone physical treatment to alter their bodies,persons claiming protection for their ‘gender identities’ need to prove noneof these things. In many countries, recognition of change of sex or genderstill requires evidence of treatment for gender identity disorder, but this ischanging. As the defi nition of those who require protection for their ‘genderrights’ broadens, national legislation is being created that follows a wider ‘de-pathologising’ model. An ongoing campaign by transgender activists to enablerecognition of changed sex caste status without any diagnosis or treatment iscurrently under way and is making considerable headway. The 2004 GenderRecognition Act in the UK still requires a diagnosis, but it eschews treatmentas a criterion for gaining a certifi cate of changed status. It is a prime exampleof the move to ‘gender’ in legislation; and the confusion around ‘gender’, inwhich the Act is mired, leads to some strange outcomes (Jeff reys, 2008 ).The UK Gender Recognition Act of The 2004 Gender Recognition Act (GRA) in the UK was radical for its time.The UK Act goes further than other countries, enabling transgender personswho have undergone surgical treatment to gain new birth certifi cates and therights of their, as the GRA puts it, ‘acquired gender’. There is, of course, nosuch thing as a non-acquired gender, but the legislation, and the parliamen-tary debates at the time, see-saw between seeing ‘gender’ as just another wordfor sex, and seeing it as socially constructed. The Act is unusual in enablingtransgenders who have had neither surgical nor hormonal treatment to gainrecognition in their new ‘gender’. The language of ‘gender’ rather than ‘sex’is used in the legislation. Though the Act is apparently about ‘gender’, a sub-ject that feminists have usually understood to be their own political stampingground, no women’s or feminist groups made submissions in the lead up tothis Act. A whole conversation about what constitutes sex and gender andwhat, for example, a woman is – including the creation of legislation withconsiderable social and political implications for women – took place off stageas if it were not the concern of women or feminists to be involved in thediscussion of these issues.The Act is the child of an international movement of transgender activ-ists, represented in the UK by organisations such as Press for Change (PFC),the Gender Trust, and the FTM Network. The social acceptability of trans-genderism in the present is suggested by the fact that the two main cam-paigners from PFC, Christine Burns and Stephen Whittle, were awarded anMBE and an OBE respectively for their campaigning eff orts for transgenderrights and towards the GRA. The 2004 Act is to ‘make provision for and inconnection with change of gender’ (GRA, 2004). The Act defi nes ‘acquiredgender’ as ‘the gender to which the person has changed’ or ‘The gender inwhich the person is living’. Under the Act, persons applying for ‘recogni-tion’ of their ‘acquired gender’ must appear before a panel that will decidewhether to ‘recognise’ them or not. The panel must grant the application ifthe following conditions are met by the applicant: they must have or have had‘gender dysphoria’; have performed what is usually called the ‘real life’ test,i.e. lived in the acquired gender throughout the period of two years endingwith the date on which the application is made; and intend to ‘continue tolive in the acquired gender until death’. Though the problem of transgenderregret and the difficulty of any of the aspirants being able to promise not tochange their minds were raised in the parliamentary debates, neither wasconsidered to undermine the spirit of legislation which was based on the ideathat ‘real’ transgenders can be recognised and that regrets do not happen. Nomechanism was created to allow those ‘recognised’ under the Act to returnand receive a fresh certifi cate, or series of them in future years, each time theychanged their gender identity.The applicant must provide evidence of their ‘acquired gender’ in theform of either ‘a report made by a registered medical practitioner practisingin the fi eld of gender dysphoria and a report made by another registeredmedical practitioner’ or ‘a report made by a chartered psychologist practisingin that fi eld and a report made by a registered medical practitioner’ (GRA:Article 3). Unlike legislation of this kind elsewhere, it does not require thatapplicants should have undergone medical treatment in the form of hor-mones or surgery, and this can lead to some peculiar consequences. It createsa new situation in which an intact female can become legally male, and maygive birth to and raise a child as the ‘father’ although, according to the UKlegislation, the birth certifi cate should specify that the person who gave birthis the ‘mother’ rather than the ‘father’. It also creates the situation that a manmay, with the aid of a certifi cate recognising him as a woman, enter women-only spaces, which happened in relation to women’s prisons in the UK as wewill see later in this chapter. This problem for women’s security is exacerbatedby the fact that such a man may be physically entire.Though the Gender Recognition Act was radical for its time in not requir-ing drug or surgical treatment to qualify for a certifi cate of change of ‘gender’,the international campaign and discussion of transgender rights has movedon considerably in the ensuing decade. This is clear from an examination ofthe Australian Amendment to the Sex Discrimination Act in 2013, where‘gender identity’ is defi ned so broadly that it represents simply appearance or‘mannerisms’ and makes no mention of either diagnosis or treatment. In thislegislation gender identity is simply a matter of personal choice and, poten-tially, subject to change from one moment to the next.The Australian Sex Discrimination Act Amendment Law change to incorporate gender rights is moving fast and developing inline with the queer theory approach to gender. The 2013 Amendment tothe federal Sex Discrimination Act in Australia adds the categories of sex-ual orientation, gender identity and intersexuality to those protected fromdiscrimination (Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia,a ).It goes so far as to imply that everyone has a gender, and enables, under‘gender identity’, persons to be ‘neither male nor female’ (Parliament of theCommonwealth of Australia, 2013b ). The defi nition of ‘gender identity’ isvery broad and does not require a diagnosis or treatment, or any period inwhich the aspirant has to live as the gender they aspire to be, and seems tofacilitate any person to claim a ‘gender identity’ on a temporary or occasionalbasis: ‘gender identity means the gender-related identity, appearance or man-nerisms or other gender-related characteristics of a person (whether by wayof medical intervention or not), with or without regard to the persons’ des-ignated sex at birth’ (Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia, 2013a : 6,Subsection 4 (1)). It is interesting to speculate on what is meant by ‘manner-isms’, which could perhaps include the behaviour of hair fl icking that two ofthe female partners in Chapter 4 describe their husbands as adopting as theytransgendered. This incorporation into law of such fi nely calibrated measuresof socially constructed masculinity and femininity is a new development.The legislation implies that everyone will have a ‘gender identity’ by defi ningdiscrimination on the ground of gender identity as occurring when ‘the dis-criminator treats the aggrieved person less favourably than, in circumstancesthat are the same or are not materially diff erent, the discriminator treats orwould treat a person who has a diff erent gender identity’ (Parliament of theCommonwealth of Australia, 2013a : 5B). There is no provision for using asa comparator a person who does not have a ‘gender identity’, and indeeddoes not believe in such. In this way the Australian state has now created anassumption that everyone has a gender identity, and the possession of such aquality seems to have become compulsory and unavoidable.The Amendment breaks new ground by allowing for the possibility thata person may not identify as male or female. According to the ExplanatoryMemorandum that accompanies the legislation, the defi nition of ‘genderidentity’ ‘provides maximum protection for gender diverse people’, a termthat introduces a new level of obscurity since the idea of ‘gender’ relates to asystem in which there are only two genders, masculinity for the male, dom-inant sex caste and femininity for the female, subordinate sex caste; diversitydoes not apply (Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia, 2013b : Article). The defi nition includes the way ‘a person expresses or presents their gen-der and recognises that a person may not identify as either male or female’.However, whether the person ‘identifi es’ or not, unless they are intersex, theywill be biologically male or female, so the legislation enables the fantasy life ofcitizens to be protected by the state. It is likely that the ‘neither’ category willbe of most use, immediately, to an Australian man who won a decision in theNew South Wales court just as the Amendment was reaching its fi nal stage ofgoing through the legislature, that he could get his birth certifi cate changedto recognise him as ‘neither male nor female’ (Bibby, 2013 ). This decision isbeing celebrated as path-breaking. In fact Norrie May Welby is a male personwho transgendered at the age of twenty-eight and then regretted his decision,but has decided not to identify as male even though he no longer considershimself female. This is probably because he has had his testicles amputatedand is, as he puts it, a ‘eunuch’ (ABC, 2003 ). He is a man who started out asa gay drag artist before SRS and then, to survive fi nancially, was prostitutedby men (ibid.). Welby’s situation suggests that the law will constantly have toevolve, on an ad hoc basis, to take into account the dysfunction caused by themedical and social acceptance of transgenderism in the place. Whereasintersex persons may reasonably choose to declare that they are ‘neither malenor female’, this does not apply to men like Norrie Welby, who are likely tobe unambiguously, biologically male but have suff ered the confi scation oftheir genitals by medical professionals licensed by the state.Once they have accepted the legal validity of ‘gender rights’, legislators arefi nding that they have to create more and more vague and confusing languageand concepts. There is a slippery slope towards meaninglessness, such as enab-ling persons who are biologically male or female to realise their fantasies thatthey are not, with the imprimatur of the state. The full implications of suchlegislation for women’s rights will be elucidated through case law in years tocome, but in some jurisdictions decisions are being made under the aegis of‘gender rights’ that are clearly very problematic for women’s rights to dignityand security. The next section of the chapter will examine the implications ofenabling men to exercise their ‘gender rights’ to enter spaces in which womenare particularly vulnerable – women’s toilets and women’s prisons.Women-only toilets and the right to dignityDignity is an important principle in human rights law. The UniversalDeclaration of Human Rights opens with the words, ‘Whereas recognitionof the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights of all mem-bers of the human family is the foundation of freedom, justice and peacein the world’ (United Nations, 1948 ). The entry of male-bodied personsinto women’s toilets is happening with increasing frequency in the UnitedStates in particular, and is being justifi ed successfully with reference to genderrights. This subjects women to the potential for a range of sexually harassingbehaviour by men that violates women’s right to human dignity. The broadwording of recent documents relating to gender rights creates the possibilitythat both old-fashioned ‘transsexuals’ who have gone through reassignmentsurgery, as well as cross-dressers who engage in their hobby on particular daysor weekends, would be able to use women’s toilets.Historically in the west, the availability of women-only toilets has beenan important feminist aim, and the sine qua non of women’s equality (Penner, ). Women cannot go out to work or access public space without accessto safe toilets. This is still a very considerable problem in countries such asIndia where there are human rights campaigns about the right to women’stoilets, to enable girl children to go to school, as well as to enable women toescape the sexual violence they are vulnerable to when having to defecate orurinate in fi elds or public places (Yardley, 2012 ). Presently in the west, how-ever, it does seem that such facilities, which are so crucial to women’s well-being and opportunities, are being threatened by the demands of men whocross-dress to access them.The creation of a ‘right’ for men to enter women’s toilets has, potentially,a number of negative eff ects, such as the deterrence of women from usingthem, creating potential health problems, and the forcing of women into theintimate proximity of men, some of whom have a clear interest in the sexualexcitements that they can access by violating women’s right to human dignityin such places. The danger to women’s dignity and security that such entrycan occasion is illustrated by the considerable amount of pornography freelyavailable on the web in which men display and exchange photographs theyhave taken by stealth, through hidden cameras, of women in toilets and lockerrooms, defecating and urinating, or naked in showers. This material is a subsetof the genre of pornography more usually called ‘upskirts’, which is the namemale porn consumers give to the practice of photographing up women’sskirts without their knowledge. Men do this by using cameras on the tips oftheir shoes on escalators, by having cameras in bags they place on the fl oornext to women, and, particularly, by putting hidden cameras in women’s toi-lets and shower rooms. The upskirting phenomenon has been recognised asan off shoot of mobile phone technology that enables a new form of sex-ual harassment and violence against women, and concern about this has ledto the introduction of new legislation in several countries to address theissue (Powell, 2009 ). The men who engage in upskirting are a varied group,including male tennis fans at the Australian Open (ibid.), male school studentswho uploaded fi lm of a teacher onto the Internet (Epstein, 2012 ), and evena male urologist. In a case in New York in August 2012, a respected urolo-gist extended his professional interest into a new direction, and was arrestedfor fi lming up a woman’s skirt on a station platform (Newcomb, 2012 ). Thisform of voyeurism includes the direct targeting of women’s excretory func-tions for observation, fi lming and sound recording.The off enders who target women in order to gain excitement from theviolation of their dignity in this way include men who dress in women’sclothes. There is a surprising number of cases in which men wearing women’sclothing have been arrested for engaging in behaviour in women’s toilets thatis harmful to women. The range of acts they engage in includes secret pho-tographing of women using the toilets and showers, peeping at women fromadjacent stalls or under stall dividers, demanding that women recognise themas women and becoming aggressive if the women do not, and luring chil-dren into women’s toilets to sexually assault them. It is not possible to knowwhether these are men who consider that they are transsexual or transgenderor just men adopting women’s clothing in order to facilitate their access towomen and children, but the problem of allowing men to enter women’stoilets persists in either case. The website GenderTrender has a useful listing ofsuch arrests in the last few years (GenderTrender, 2011a ). In a British case aman dressed up as a ‘mannequin with a mask and a wig’ to enter a cubicle inthe women’s toilets in a shopping mall, where he ‘performed’ an unspecifi ed‘sexual act’ ( The Telegraph , 2011 ). The twenty-two-year-old man told police he‘found the sound of women on the toilet sexually exciting’, and he had fi lmedwomen’s feet from beneath cubicle doors on his mobile phone and recordedthe sound of a fl ushing toilet. In another case a man dressed as a woman wasobserved peeping at women and using a cell phone to photograph them in aUC Berkeley women’s locker room (Rufus, 2010 ). In a Little Rock, Arkansascase, a thirty-nine-year-old man wearing women’s clothing was arrested afterexposing himself and masturbating in front of three children and trying to lurethem into the women’s bathroom (Newport TV, 2010 ). He had a long historyof indecent exposure. In May 2013 a man wearing ‘women’s’ clothing, whohad been using a concealed camera to fi lm women in the women’s toilets, wasarrested in California ( Daily News , 2013 ). There is, of course, no parallel behav-iour on the part of women who seek to enter men’s toilets to videotape themusing the facilities, and men do not need sex-segregated toilets to protect theirdignity and security as women do.The clash of rights that the right to ‘gender identity’ protection creates isparticularly clear in the Colleen Francis case in the United States in October. In this case, Francis, a forty-fi ve-year-old person born male, thrice mar-ried, the father of fi ve children, possessed of intact male genitalia, and who livedas a man until 2009, has established the right to use the sauna in the women’slocker room at Evergreen State College (Golgowski, 2012 ). The locker roomis used by the girls from two neighbouring high schools and some parentscomplained that this male-bodied person was naked in the locker room in thepresence of their girl children. The college said that it had legally to protectColleen’s right to be naked in the women’s locker room, directed the girls toa smaller, less adequate facility and then put up a curtain in the main lockerroom saying the girls could change behind it. Francis’ right to ‘gender identity’trumped the rights of those born and raised female. The cases covered hererepresent just a fraction of those listed on the blogs of transcritical feminists.Moreover, the reported cases are likely to represent the tip of the iceberg ofthis form of off ending by men, since usually women are unaware that they arebeing recorded or observed.The right of cross-dressing men to use women’s toilets is supported by asupposedly progressive alliance of queer theorists and activists who argue thatsex-segregated toilets are unnecessary and irretrievably outdated. One suchis Sheila Cavanagh of York University, author of Queering Bathrooms ( 2010 ).She pooh poohs the idea that ‘trans people’ could be sexual predators, andsays there has been,(to my knowledge) no report of a trans person physically or sexu-ally attacking a cisgendered (non-trans) patron in the restroom. It isas though the toilet has become an icon of danger evoked by thosewho cannot logically substantiate their opposition to trans inclusivelegislation.(Cavanagh, 2011 : 18)There is, though, a great deal of evidence that men are violent towardswomen, across cultures and across history (Romito, 2008 ), and there is nogood reason why men who dress in women’s clothing will behave diff erently.In fact, as we have seen above, there is considerable evidence that there aremen who, whether simply cross-dressed or ‘transgender’, do engage in vio-lence towards women in spaces such as toilets, and such expressions of scornand derision towards those who point out such uncomfortable truths cannotnegate them.Cavanagh argues for degendered toilets and states, ‘Gender inclusive andluxurious toilets are a worthwhile project for the 21st century’ (Cavanagh, : 20). Unfortunately, this argument, which is made in pursuit of trans-gender rights, is beginning to gain ground not just in the rarefi ed world ofqueer theory but in local government policy. In 2013 the City Council ofBrighton and Hove in the UK announced its intention to degender its pub-lic toilets (Ward, 2013 ). The Council states that it wishes to promote ‘genderneutrality’ and ‘build facilities which are open to all, regardless of sex’. Thisinitiative was to begin with the building of a block with four new lavatoriesand a cafe. The toilets would have images depicting a man, a woman and achild on the doors. The Council opined that such facilities would be ‘moreaccessible for those who do not identify with the male –female binary’ (ibid.).Subsequently, single sex toilets would be progressively phased out. The policyis in response to a demand by a Council working group set up to exam-ine ‘issues faced by transgender residents’ of the city. The group, the ‘TransEquality Scrutiny Panel’, also recommended that titles that referred to gender,such as Mr, Mrs, Miss and Ms, should be banned in order not to off end thetransgender community and force them to ‘choose between genders’. TheGreens Party councillors supported the plan, and, interestingly, it was up tocouncillors from the conservative side of politics to point out that this wasa violation of women’s right to security. A councillor from the oppositionTory group argued that ‘[l]ocal residents, particularly women with children,would much prefer to use separate facilities as apart from anything else, it issafer’ (ibid.).Transgenderism and the prison systemWomen’s toilets are not the only segregated space in which women are par-ticularly vulnerable to the entry of men who seek to exercise their ‘genderrights’. Women’s prisons are another space that they are seeking the legalright to enter, and this provides a powerful example of the clash of rights thatis created when men’s rights to personate women are promoted above therights of women. Male prisoners in Western countries are using human rightslaws successfully to gain access to transgender treatment at public expense inprison, and the right to then transfer to the women’s prison. The men whoare being given the right to live alongside women in prison include some ofthose most dangerous to women’s safety – men who have been convicted ofcrimes of grave violence including the murder of women. Men who trans-gender are more prone to criminal behaviour than other men are. Researchfrom the United States shows that 21 per cent of men who transgender hadbeen sent to prison for any reason, which contrasts with 2.7 per cent of thegeneral American population (Grant et al ., 2011 ). Though the demands of‘transgender’ prisoners are still being refused in some jurisdictions, they areincreasingly successful, being well supported by gay organisations and majorlaw fi rms.In Australia, the transgendering of prisoners is not yet routinely facilitated.If it were, then one candidate would be Australian serial killer, Paul Denyer.Denyer killed three young women in Bayside suburbs of Melbourne, overseven weeks in 1993. He sought during his sentence to ‘wear make-up in jail,have a taxpayer-funded sex change and formally alter his name by deed pollto Paula’ (Dunn, 2012 ). He was refused, and in July 2012 exhibited behaviourthat showed how unlike a woman he actually was. Police were reported to beinvestigating four alleged rapes by Denyer of men with intellectual disabil-ities who were fellow inmates. The Denyer case does illustrate the problemsthat might occur as a result of the recognition of violent male criminals as‘women’ and their transfer to women’s facilities. There is no reason that abelief that they are ‘women’ will alter such men’s tendencies to engage ina form of sexual violence that is specifi cally and clearly male. In anotherAustralian case, in 2012, Derek Lulu Sinden was refused permission in theQueensland courts to start hormone treatment for gender identity disorder.The Queensland Corrections Department argued that the refusal was con-sistent with its policy of only supplying hormones to men who started totake them before entering the prison system (Smith, 2012 ). Sinden had beenconvicted of an attack on seventy-one-year-old Beryl Grace Brown in April, in her home, which caused her to suff er a heart attack and fatal stroke.Though there is still resistance to enabling male prisoners to transgenderin the United States, court judgements in 2011 and 2012 have establishedthe rights of male prisoners to access transgender treatment in the form ofboth hormones and surgery. In a landmark case in 2011, a man who had aserious history of sexual off ences against girl children won the right to hor-mone treatment in prison (McDermott et al ., 2011 ). Sandy Battista started hisviolence against girls at a young age. Battista’s mother was killed by his fatherwhen he was six years old, and he was, allegedly, sexually abused while in thecustody of his grandparents. When he was fourteen he assaulted a six-year-old girl, and a year later took another girl child into the woods but did notassault her. In a 1986 case, Battista got caught making obscene phone calls toyoung girls he picked out of local newspapers, and a decade later, Battista waspenalised for keeping pictures of young girls in his jail cell. He was diagnosedas having gender identity disorder in 1997. The law fi rm, McDermott Will& Emery, which started acting for Battista in his case against the authoritiesfor not allowing him transgender treatment, announced proudly on theirwebsite that they were successful in what they consider an important humanrights victory, that of enabling him to have hormone treatment. The judgein the case found, in 2011, that denying Battista treatment would constitute‘cruel and unusual punishment which consists of the neglect of her seriousmedical needs’ (ibid.). That precedent was used in the case of another vio-lent male prisoner in the United States in 2012 who was seeking the rightnot just to hormones but to state funded sex-reassignment surgery (Lavoie, ). Robert Kosilev murdered his wife, Cheryl, in1990, and was living asa woman and taking hormones while in a men’s prison at the time of thehistoric judgement. This case is the in which a federal judge, Judge MarkWolf, has ordered prison officials to provide sex-reassignment surgery for atransgender inmate. The judge ruled that reassignment surgery was the onlyway to treat ‘her’ ‘serious medical need’. The ruling is expected to set a pre-cedent for other men seeking reassignment in jail.The question of transfer to a women’s prison is intertwined with suchdecisions, and this ‘right’ was established in the UK in a court case in 2009,when there was a successful appeal from an unnamed male prisoner to bemoved to a women’s prison. The petitioner in this case was found guilty in of the manslaughter of his male lover, who was strangled with a pairof tights, allegedly for refusing to fund the murderer’s sex-change surgery.He was sentenced to fi ve years’ imprisonment. Five days after his release heattempted to rape a female stranger and was sent back to prison. In order toget gender reassignment surgery the prisoner was told that he must engage inthe real life test, that is two years living as a woman, which required transfer toa women’s prison. He appealed under the European Convention on HumanRights to be allowed such a transfer. His lawyer told the court that the crimeswere all linked to ‘a desperation to become a woman’. The judge declaredthat ‘her continued detention in a male prison is in breach of her rightsunder Article 8 [the right to private and family life]’ under the Convention.The man’s barrister, Phillippa Kaufmann, referred to the man as a womanand said, ‘She lives as a woman amongst men on a vulnerable prisoners’ unitand she can’t wear what she wants or more than subtle make-up. They arean important statement of her femaleness’ (Allen, 2009 ). The women in theprison where he will be housed will not be told of his identity or of hisoff ence (ibid.). There is a clear clash of rights here, in which a man’s right towear make-up and be housed with vulnerable women who are incarceratedtrumps the right of those women to be protected from violent men. Thenotion of human rights is trivialised thereby.In response to the judgement, new guidelines were issued for the treat-ment of prisoners seeking gender reassignment in UK prisons in March 2011,which enabled prisoners to have treatment and to be located in women’sprisons. The guidelines state,A male-to-female transsexual person with a gender recognition cer-tifi cate may be refused location in the female estate only on securitygrounds – in other words, only when it can be demonstrated that otherwomen with an equivalent security profi le would also be held in themale estate.(Ministry of Justice, 2011 )The nature of the man’s off ence and the degree to which he poses a risk towomen prisoners is not considered here, only the man’s right to personatewomen while in the company of women is recognised. The integration ofmen who personate women into women’s prisons can be jeopardised bytheir rejection by women prisoners. In Italy, this was given as a reason toestablish a prison especially for transgenders in 2010 (Melloy, 2010 ). This isan expensive and complex solution, but necessary in response to the problemthat although the law recognises these men as women, actual women do not.Aurelio Mancuso, President of Italy’s GLBT organisation, Arcigay, explained,‘Housing transgender and male prisoners together is especially problematic.But their relations with female prisoners are also far from straightforward.The women just don’t consider them women’ (ibid.).The problems that can arise from housing a man in a women’s prisonbecame clear in a Canadian case in 2005, when a violent transsexual hadto be removed from free association in the women’s jail in which he hadbeen placed on the grounds of his human rights, because of his aggressivebehaviour, which had included threatening staff and vandalising the building(Bhardwaj, 2005 ). Richard Kavanagh, who calls himself Synthia, was placedin a secure facility within the women’s prison. Kavanagh was sentenced tolife in prison, with no chance of parole for twenty-fi ve years, for the hammer killing in Toronto of a twenty-three-year-old transsexual prostitute,Leo James Black, also known as Lisa Janna Black. He complained to theCanadian Human Rights commission in 1999 that denial of hormone ther-apy and surgery constituted discrimination against him. Correctional servicesin Canada then revised their guidelines to allow surgery for patients whomet particular criteria, and this was seen as a landmark decision at the time.Interestingly, Kavanagh’s later behaviour was not seen as a reason to excludemen from women’s prisons but as a reason to have a separate facility forviolent ‘women’. Kevin Grabowsky of the Union of Canadian CorrectionalOfficers said that Kavanagh’s case illustrates that the correctional serviceneeds to create a special handling unit for violent female off enders, as thereis for men, but of course these men who have transgendered are not actuallyfemale off enders at all. The doublespeak required in deference to the idea of‘gender rights’ can be quite challenging. As the Kavanagh case shows, menwho personate women are not just potentially dangerous to women, but toother men who personate women as well.In another case of a man, who was in the process of ‘transition’, killing aman with ‘gender identity’ issues, thirty-four-year-old Nina Kanagasingham,of the UK, was charged with murder in 2010 over the death of the well-known human rights lawyer, Sonia Burgess (Pink News , ). Sixty-three-year-old Burgess was known to friends, family and work colleaguesas both Sonia and David. Kanagasingham pushed Sonia/David Burgess offa station platform at King’s Cross in London, where he was killed by anapproaching train. Kanagasingham was placed in a men’s prison, but after the guidelines it would seem possible for him to be placed in a women’sprison.It is a serious setback for the journey towards women’s equality when statesprotect ‘gender’ in their legislation, and proclaim that men’s rights to person-ate women are ‘human rights’. This makes ‘gender’, the mechanism whichorders the sex caste system, a matter of state. The appearance and manner-isms of gender, which represent a socially constructed and temporary way ofseparating persons into dominants and submissives in a hierarchy, are givenweight and validity. The criticism of the state recognition of this mechanismof inequality can then be seen as illegitimate and ‘transphobic’. Moreover, therecognition of ‘gender rights’ in a way that enables men to enter women’sspaces and claim to be ‘women’, creates a serious clash of rights. It subor-dinates the rights of women, persons of the female sex, to dignity, securityand privacy, to the rights of (mostly) men who choose to act out a ‘genderidentity’, a state of mind. There are few limits to the categories of men whoare gaining the right to do this in a variety of jurisdictions. Sometimes thedefi nition is so broad that it covers men who wish to occasionally cross-dressor those who regret transitioning and now consider themselves neuter. Inall cases the category of ‘sex’ – a very real caste status that women can neverescape, and that subjects them to demeaning treatment for their whole lives –disappears in favour of a fantasy in the head of the transgender person.In the last chapter, two previously women-only contexts were examined toshow the implications of demands for access to women’s toilets and prisons bymen who claim to be expressing their ‘gender rights’. This chapter examinesthe implications of such demands in relation to women-only contexts createdspecifi cally out of second wave feminism to serve the particular interests ofwomen as a subordinated group. Women’s services include refuges/shelters,rape crisis centres, women’s health centres – facilities that, though startedby volunteers, later acquired state funding. Women’s spaces include festivals,marches, women’s holiday centres and weekends away, conferences, walkinggroups that women organise and pay for themselves. The transgender activistmovement has demanded access to all of these services and spaces, for personswith male bodies. Where there has been resistance from women and lesbiansto these demands, the fallout has been greatly damaging to women’s com-munities. Transgender activists have laid siege to venues, and taken women’sservices and groups that organise women’s social events, to court, in order toenforce access.The importance of women’s services and spacesWomen’s services were set up by feminists from the 1970s onwards to servethe interests of women as a subordinate and disadvantaged group. Women’shealth centres, for example, were created in Australia out of recognition thatwomen’s particular needs were neglected in male-dominated health care.They focused upon biologically female bodies, and were sympathetic towomen’s experience (Kaplan, 1996 ; Murray, 2002 ). Shelters/refuges and rapecrisis centres and hotlines were set up to enable women to escape and healfrom men’s violence (Sweeney, 2004 ). Such women’s services are tailored towomen’s needs and off er mutual support and a forum for women’s concerns and consciousness raising. This chapter will address the considerable stressescreated within women’s communities and the ‘women’s sector’ (women’sservice organisations) by the determination of male-bodied transgenders toaccess women’s services as workers, clients and members (Price, 2007 ; Stuart, ).The chapter will also examine the campaigns by transgender activists toenter women’s spaces – which were created to enable women and lesbians tosocialise and meet politically, without men, in order to articulate their con-cerns, relax, strengthen bonds, and enjoy women’s culture, music, poetry anddance. It will consider the implications of the demand by men who trans-gender, continue to be heterosexual after transition, and proclaim themselvesto be lesbians, to access lesbian-only spaces. The spaces may not just begeographical spaces, but even physical, with some transgenders demandingphysical access to the bodies of lesbians, as in the ‘cotton ceiling’ controversy,in which male-bodied transgenders guilt-trip lesbians who do not wantpenises in their bodies, with accusations of ‘transphobia’ (GenderTrender,b ).Some feminists support admission of male-bodied transgenders to servicesand spaces (McDonald, 2006 ), while others within women’s communitiesstrongly oppose their inclusion, insisting that since they have neither wom-en’s biology or experience, they cannot empathise with the experiences ofwomen born and raised female (Greer, 1999 ; Jeff reys, 2008 ; Raymond, 1994 ;Sweeney, 2004 ). Germaine Greer, for example, accuses male-bodied trans-genders of a lack of insight about the extent of their acceptance as women,noting that when ‘he forces his way into the few private spaces women mayenjoy and shouts down their objections and bombards the women who willnot accept him with threats and hate mail, he does as rapists have always done’(Greer, 1999 : 74). Very often, splits over the issue of transgender inclusiondestroy women’s and lesbian groups and lead to the ending of those eventsthat provided women-only social spaces such as lesbian festivals and women’smusic festivals (McDonald, 2006 ; Sweeney, 2004 ; Wales, 1999 ). Important andnecessary facilities for women and lesbians are lost. There is little research thathas looked at the implications for women of the campaign by male-bodiedtransgenders to enter women’s or lesbian groups and social spaces. Similarly,there has been little research that examines the implications for women’sservices, set up to meet women’s particular needs, when male-bodied trans-genders seek access either as clients or as workers. This chapter includes datafrom an exploratory study by Lorene Gottschalk that sought to examine theextent to which management staff in women’s services in Australia, such asshelters and health centres, are aware of the implications of transgender inclu-sion, have policies about this, and have experienced attempts by male-bodiedtransgenders to gain access. Women-only services and spacesWomen’s spaces providing social support and other services were set upin countries such as Australia, the UK and the United States in the late nine-teenth and early twentieth centuries during the wave feminist movement(Blair, 1984 ; Freedman, 1979 ; Kaplan, 1996 ). Feminists campaigned for suchprovision again in the 1970s so that, for instance, the Australian governmentagreed to provide fi nancial assistance to establish and run women’s refuges,and by the end of that decade there were over a hundred funded refugesacross Australia (Johnson, 1981 ; Kaplan, 1996 ; Murray, 2002 ). Women’s healthcentres that sought to compensate for the male-centredness of the traditionalmedical profession are also government funded in Australia. The women’shealth care movement achieved considerable success in drawing attentionto women’s medical issues previously neglected in medical research, and wasresponsible for a decline in disease and maternal and neo-natal death rates(Kaplan, 1996 ). Women-only services such as refuges, centres against sexualassault (CASAs) and health centres fulfi lled a desperate need, and the benefi tsof providing services to meet these needs are well documented (Kaplan, 1996 ;Lake, 1999 ).Historically, when services are mainstreamed, women’s special needsbecome ‘invisible’ and are frequently neglected (Freedman, 1979 ; Kaplan, ). This occurred in the United States after the wave feminist move-ment, when women’s spaces were mainstreamed. One result was that theproblem of men’s violence against women, which was well known in theearly twentieth century, had to be ‘re-discovered’ by second wave feminists(Freedman, ). Creating women-only space such as women’s refuges,women’s health centres and women’s festivals has been one of the outstand-ing achievements of the second wave feminist movement (Riger, 1994 ). Inthe 1990s, however, women-only space and facilities disappeared to a largeextent as a result of the impact of a queer movement, which marginalisedlesbianism, and an anti-feminist backlash (Case, 1997 ; Faderman, 1997 ). Fewwomen-only spaces still exist, compared with what was available at the heightof the second wave feminist movement. The disappearance of women-onlyspaces has taken place at the same time as a general winding back of allfacilities dedicated to women’s interests, such as bookstores, publishing, artgalleries and cafes. Feminist publishers have mostly disappeared, the shelvesdedicated to women’s studies in bookstores have been eliminated or mergedinto ‘gender’ or cultural studies, and women’s studies courses in universitieshave mostly been abolished or turned into ‘gender studies’. At the sametime, events previously women-only such as music festivals or marches havebecome mixed-sex. But, until recently, women’s health centres, women’s shel-ters and rape crisis services, and a few festivals and events, remained focused upon women. The transgender challenge is thus directed to the few areas inwhich a women-only principle has been maintained.The transgender challenge is an onslaught upon that most important prin-ciple of feminism, the necessity of women-only space, in which women sep-arate, by choice, from men. The lesbian feminist philosopher, Marilyn Frye,has characterised the importance of separatism to second wave feminismincisively (Frye, 1983 ). She explains that,Our existence as females not owned by males and not penis-accessible,our values and our attention, our experience of the erotic and the dir-ection of our passion, places us directly in opposition to male-suprema-cist culture in all respects, so much so that our existence is almostunthinkable within the world view of that culture.(Frye, 1983 : 145)When women forbade male entry into their groups and activities it deniedthem important goods and sources of power: ‘[f]emale denial of male accessto females substantially cuts off a fl ow of benefi ts, but it has also the formand full portent of the assumption of power’ (Frye, 1983 : 103). The contem-porary rage of male-bodied transgenders at being denied entry to women’sspaces, and the reluctance of women to give them cause for anger, can beunderstood with reference to Frye’s useful insight that ‘conscious and delib-erate exclusion of men by women, from anything, is blatant insubordination,and generates in women fear of punishment and reprisal’ (ibid.). Men’s rightof entry is conferred upon them by their position of dominance and wom-en’s lack of any right to deny this to them by their subordinate position: ‘Itis always the privilege of the master to enter the slave’s hut. The slave whodecides to exclude the master from her hut is declaring herself not a slave’(Frye, 1983 : 104). The strength and determination of the transgender chal-lenge, and the anger and vituperation with which it is often conducted, arelikely to stem from an understanding of the importance of the principle ofseparatism to women’s freedom. Examples of the transgender challenge inthis chapter will begin with the challenge to women-only social space, asexemplifi ed in the Michigan Womyn’s Music Festival, and move on to thechallenge to women’s services.The transgender siege of the MichiganWomyn’s Music FestivalThe Michigan Womyn’s Music Festival is an iconic women’s and lesbianspace that, probably for that very reason, became an early target of trans-gender activism. The festival was held in 1976 and has been held yearly, for one week, on private land, since that time. It is the oldest andbest known women’s festival in North America and, with thousands oflesbians attending, has been a most important space for the creation oflesbian culture and community (Fowler, 2001 ). It provides a geograph-ical space where, for a short period of time, women can get away fromconstant surveillance and abuse by men in public spaces, and experiencean alternative culture free of the slurs and woman hating that abound inmalestream popular culture. It would be quite difficult to overstate thevalue and importance of this festival for lesbian culture and community inparticular. Maria Fowler has written about how, from her attendancein 1995, the festival has represented ‘home’ to her (ibid.). She explains thatthe festival was set up to create a positive collective identity for lesbians,and challenges ‘dominant constructions about lesbian lives’. For many ofthe attendees, the festival ‘provides a community of resistance’ in whichthey can feel safe to express their lesbianism because they have ‘privacythat emerges from the site’s spatial and ideological remoteness from theeveryday surveillance of the heteronormative gaze’ (Fowler, : 53).Fowler quotes one attendee as saying,it’s a place … where I can feel completely and totally safe; I never haveto look over my shoulder, I can go anywhere I want any time of theday or night in any state of dress or undress and never have to worryabout anything.(Fowler, 2001 : 59)Festival policy does not permit active questioning about a person’s sex orgender, but it excludes self-identifi ed transsexuals, and ‘respect for one weekof womyn-born womyn space is requested’ (Browne, 2011 : 249).Kath Browne says that the festival ‘embodies’ separatism (Browne, 2011 :). It allows women to ‘live’ feminism and ‘acts as a way of educatingwomyn about feminist forms’. Browne explains that nudity is important tothe freedom women experience at Michfest because, ‘once on the land, awayfrom areas that could be seen by a passerby, Michfest enables women to walkaround in various states of dress and undress’ (Browne, 2011 : 251). Attendeessay that this experience can be ‘empowering in recognizing the diversity ofwomyn’s bodies and their beauty outside of conventional norms of attractive-ness’ (ibid.). This was particularly the case in terms of the communal showersunder the trees where women did not have to be ashamed of their bodies.Moreover, the festival off ers a space where women can be freely loving andaff ectionate towards one another in ways that heterosexual people take forgranted, engaging in ‘same-sex intimacies through holding hands, kissing, etc.in all of the festival spaces’ free from men’s insults and threats of violence (ibid.). These are all activities that women, and lesbians in particular, cannotfeel safe or comfortable to engage in when in male company.For all these reasons, transgender activists want access. According toEmi Koyama, author of the ‘Transfeminist Manifesto’ (Koyama, 2001 ), thesiege of the festival began in 1993 when some transgender activists set up‘Camp Trans’ opposite the entrance to the festival to protest the policy ofnot admitting self-identifi ed transgenders (Koyama, 2006 ). Camp Trans wasrepeated in 1994 and then went into abeyance until revived in 1999 as Sonof Camp Trans by the activist group Transsexual Menace and the transgenderactivist organisation, GenderPAC. The founder of both these organisationsis the male-bodied transgender, Riki Wilchins, who identifi es as a male-to-female-to-male transsexual (Wilchins, 2013 ). While the original aim ofCamp Trans was to get the festival policy changed to admit postoperativetranssexuals, by 2002 the stated policy was to gain admission for any self-identifi ed women, which would include any men who identifi ed as womenat any time, even when physically entire or just interested in occasionalcross-dressing. The campaign by transgender activists went further than justsetting up a camp, and included contacting musicians who played at thefestival and asking them to boycott it or make public statements against thewomen-only policy.They also exploited the ‘don’t ask’ policy to make incursions into thecamp and use the facilities. Karla Mantilla wrote in the US feminist news-paper Off Our Backs about the damage done to the festival by the intru-sion of male-bodied transgenders who entered the communal shower areas,naked and physically entire (Mantilla, 2000 ). She says,If these wannabe ‘women’ had any understanding of what it is to be awoman in patriarchy they would have respected, not violated, women’sspace, and they would have understood what a horrifi c violation itwould be for a woman to be confronted with a strange naked bio-logical male, penis and all, when she is unclothed and vulnerable.(ibid.)The concern of the transgender activists with their own ‘liberation’, she argues,came ‘at the expense of women trying for just one week in one remote cornerof the United States to feel completely safe from male violence’ (ibid.). Aftermale-bodied transgenders chose to enter the festival, Mantilla says that ‘thefeeling of complete safety from men and patriarchal rape culture’ was ‘eroded’because women attendees knew that ‘a man’ could always be there. Mantillacomments that the determination of male-bodied transgenders to enter thespace shows how deeply ‘threatening’ women’s separatism is to men, and thatmore such spaces are needed, not fewer. The transgender challenge, she says, is a ‘rebellion against women’s rebellion’ and works against ‘the liberation of womenfrom patriarchy’; it is straightforward anti-feminism by social conservatives.In 2010 the tactics of transgender activists who entered the festival becameparticularly violent and aggressive. A member of the security crew, who saysshe did not question anyone’s ‘gender’, described how Camp Trans set upCamp Tranarchy, and ‘vandalized the festival and threatened festival goers’(Dirt from Dirt, 2010a ). A fl yer being distributed by the activists showed arather extraordinary degree of woman hating: ‘A hot load from my mon-strous tranny-cock embodies womanhood more than the pieces of menstral[ sic ] art your transphobic cunts could ever hope to create’. Women at thecamp recorded a range of violent incidents they were subjected to. One saidthat her car was vandalised and a chemical sprayed on both door locks. Therewas gunfi re one night from the Camp Trans area, waterlines were cut andtyres slashed, shower plumbing was damaged and banners destroyed. Tentswere painted with ‘Fuck fest’ and ‘Real women have cocks’. Women spokeof being traumatised, suff ering post-traumatic stress disorder, and not feelingsafe to attend the festival again (Dirt from Dirt, 2010b ). The transgender siegehas not been entirely successful, however. There have been numerous reportsfrom the 2012 festival that, as a refl ection of a strengthening new wave offeminism, women are becoming much more organised in their oppositionto the male-bodied transgender incursions, using signs, T-shirts and chantsto show these men that they are not welcome on the land (GenderTrender, ).Lesbian spacesThe Michigan Women’s Music Festival survives as a nominally women-onlyspace at this time. Most other women’s spaces have not been so lucky andhave experienced legal challenges, or folded under the pressure to admitmale-bodied transgenders. A wide variety of women’s activities have explodedunder this pressure, including women’s walking groups and reading groups,but, most importantly, facilities designed to provide the beating hearts of les-bian community – lesbian centres – have been stricken by controversy. Oneexample of this damage is the Sydney Lesbian-Space Project. During lesbians had raised around $250,000 to buy a lesbian community centre inSydney, Australia. They wanted a women’s space but with a focus on lesbianculture and community (Kline, 2006). However, male-bodied transgenderswho identifi ed as lesbians had contributed to the fund raising on the under-standing that they would be included. After a lesbian event in Brisbane wasseverely disrupted by the presence of male-bodied transgenders, the Lesbian-Space collective felt it necessary to introduce a policy to exclude them. The new policy was strongly disputed by women who supported the right ofmale-bodied transgenders to be in women’s spaces and irreconcilable confl icterupted, with the result that the Lesbian-Space Project was abandoned andthe issue was never resolved.Transgender entryism caused the demise of the and historically sig-nifi cant lesbian centre in Canada, too. The Vancouver Lesbian Connection(VLC) was run from its inception in 1985 by a collective, and off ered ser-vices such as a library of women’s resources, a place to spend time, recreationfacilities and space for events. The VLC has iconic status in Canada’s lesbianand gay history and became ‘the template for lesbian community centres inother cities’ (DiMera, 2011 ). It was destroyed as a result of the entryism ofa male-bodied and physically entire transgender, Mamela, who had been avolunteer with the Gay and Lesbian Centre from 1995, and learnt there ofthe existence of the VLC. Mamela was attending the University of BritishColumbia gender clinic and described himself as a radical lesbian femin-ist with a female gender consciousness. He was initially refused inclusionin the VLC on the grounds of having been raised as a male, but persisted,and after much debate the VLC agreed to include men who transgenderso long as they identifi ed as lesbians, with the result that Mamela wasadmitted in 1996. This change in policy was soon regretted. According tocollective members, Mamela’s behaviour was quite disruptive, includingharassment of staff and volunteers, using resources without permission,answering the crisis line without training, and sexually propositioning staffand volunteers. The VLC eventually revoked Mamela’s membership on thegrounds of aggressive and sexually off ensive behaviour, at which pointhe fi led a complaint against the VLC with the British Columbia HumanRights Tribunal in 1999. In the Tribunal’s decision, Mamela’s complaintwas upheld and the VLC was ordered to pay $3,000 in compensation forinjury to his ‘dignity, feelings and self-respect’. But the decision came afterthe VLC had disbanded, having been unable to raise money for legal costs,and having had neither time nor energy to fi ght for the right to ‘women-only space’ (Wales, 1999 ). The eff ect of this transgender challenge was todestroy a most important resource for lesbians.The transgender challenge to women’s services has been even more eff ect-ive because these services are now usually state funded, and their staff – espe-cially when seeking to comply with legislation that enshrines the right ofmale-bodied transgenders to be understood as ‘women’ – are likely to complywith transgender demands more readily lest they lose their fi nancial viability.Transgender activists campaign to get women’s organisations and services toadopt trans-inclusion policies that enable male-bodied persons, with or with-out intact male genitalia, to gain access. The experience of the women’s sectorAs a result of transgender entryism, women’s services in many countries arehaving to devise policies to deal with a new problem. When the serviceswere set up in earlier decades, male-bodied transgenderism was a muchless signifi cant phenomenon in size and in legal clout. Rape crisis centresand women’s refuges were straightforwardly woman-centred. As they wereincreasingly mainstreamed, regulated and funded by states, they had to defendtheir women-only status, which some were unable to maintain. But othersgained exemptions from equal opportunity legislation that enabled themto maintain women-only workforces and clientele. These achievements arenow endangered by the demands of male-bodied transgenders who, throughclaiming to be women rather than men, are able to circumvent such exemp-tions. The issue of transgender inclusion can be seen as a beachhead for theinclusion of men as workers and clients. Once male-bodied transgenders,particularly those with penises intact, are included, the exclusion of menwho do not cross-dress or transition becomes one simply of where the lineto men’s inclusion is drawn. The principle is likely to be overturned. This isnot the case, interestingly enough, in the UK, where the Equality Act enables women’s services to specifi cally exclude men who transgender incertain circumstances (Women’s Resource Centre, 2011 : 6).In Australia there is no such legal exemption for the exclusion of male-bodied transgenders, and an Australian study, conducted through interviewswith nineteen women managers of CASAs, women’s shelters and women’shealth centres, sheds useful light on the implications of trans inclusion.Interviews centred on these women’s views about, and experiences of deal-ing with, the issue (Gottschalk, 2009 ). They reveal considerable determin-ation to protect the women-only nature of their services, but the issue oftransgenderism caused some dissension. Their views depended upon whetherthe interviewees saw male-bodied transgenders as ‘women’ or not, and onwhether they had direct experience of trans inclusion. In the interviews, thewomen’s opinions about a safe space for women were explored, and the wayin which their beliefs about men and male-bodied transgenders as employ-ees and clients, aligned with their philosophy. Interviewees from CASAs areidentifi ed as CASA1, those from women’s health centres as WH1, those fromrefuges as WR1, and so on.The importance of women-only spaceMost of the organisations in the study were committed to providingwomen-only space. Their stated mission is to provide a service for women,by women – though some did also provide services for men – and a minority were prepared to employ men, although only one did so at the time of theinterview. The interviewees were unanimous in their opinion that theirservice provided a safe space for clients. In the case of CASAs and domes-tic violence refuges, the concern was safety from perpetrators, who wereoverwhelmingly men. In the case of women’s health centres, it was a safespace for women to discuss sensitive health issues with female health pro-fessionals who were specially trained to deal with women’s health and well-being needs. Thus the organisations tended to be staff ed by women, withmen often specifi cally and sometimes legally excluded, through exemptionsunder equal opportunity legislation. The interviewees show an expertiseand wisdom that has developed over many years of dedication to servingthe needs of women for security, privacy and dignity.The following comments from interviewees show the emphasis theyplaced on a service provided for women, where they could have their needsmet and share experiences in a safe environment free from male domination.CASA5 stated,Our clients are women only, [our service is] run out of a ‘women’shouse’ so it is a strictly women-only space. Even with trades people alleff orts are made to fi nd female tradies. All staff are women – we haveexemption under EEO [Equal Employment Opportunity].WH1 shows a sensitive awareness of the importance of a women-onlyenvironment:One of the things I am most aware of personally is the potential forsomebody who has experienced violence or who is experiencing vio-lence … and they walk over the threshold here they do feel safe … soyou would not want to jeopardise that. [Our shelter has a] long trad-ition of being women focused and over those years we’ve developed anexpertise around women, physical, emotional and social health issuesand because we’re a women-only staff as well there’s a lot of interactionand safety. It is a cooperative female environment in which to work,safe from men.Interviewees also saw women’s space as providing an important consciousnessraising forum for women, allowing women to share stories and experiencesof violence and to learn about the institutionalisation of male dominance.CASA5 explains that women’s space,gives them a voice … to learn that it [male violence] is not the wom-en’s problem in that they are not at fault. It empowers women. Usually women are dominated by men in the wider world … if men are pre-sent, women feel disempowered given that they are victims of maleviolence.One interviewee, WR2, said that even a male tradesperson changed theatmosphere in a women’s refuge in a problematic way, undermining the feel-ing of safety,but I know whenever we’ve had like a male servicing the photocopier,or something like that, suddenly it just feels like there’s some under-lying tension in the place in terms of having clients here … and some-how the dynamics just feel diff erently.Employing transgender workersWhere centres had formal employment policies, these focused on whetheror not they would employ men, and made no mention of men who trans-gender. Some had non-discrimination policies and were open to employingmen as well as women, though generally most employees were women. Fiveof the interviewees had formally applied for a legal exemption and wereable to legally discriminate against men in their services, while others had aninformal policy to exclude the employment of men but had not formalisedthat exclusion legally. Some interviewees commented on the fact that cli-ents, including male clients, overwhelmingly preferred a female counsellor.As CASA1 explained, ‘It is women workers by demand. Even male clientsprefer a woman counsellor even though they can ask for a male. We have hadthree requests for a male counsellor in the past four years’.Where centres had applied for a legal exemption to allow them to employwomen only, they had not usually considered the issue of employing male-bodied transgenders. The opinions about trans inclusion diff ered signifi cantlyand depended entirely on whether they believed male-bodied transgendersto actually be women, and whether or not they placed importance on thediff erent socialisation experiences of women born and raised female fromthose born and raised male but identifying as women in adulthood. A minor-ity of interviewees (four) said they would prefer to exclude male-bodiedtransgenders, recognising the diff erent socialisation that women and menexperience, as CASA2 explained:We have a strong women-only policy … MTFs have diff erent experi-ences and stories growing up in a culture that defi nes masculinity andfemininity … We would not employ a transgender as a counsellor. Butit has never been discussed or addressed or challenged. An important factor that infl uenced the interviewees’ opinions about theemployment of male-bodied transgenders was whether or not they had pre-vious experience with such persons, either as workers or as clients. Two ofthe centres represented by the interviewees had employed men who hadtransgendered as workers. One of these interviewees was CASA5, who hadspoken strongly in support of women-only space and whose personal beliefwas that a male-bodied transgender was not a woman. She states,We have had an experience with a trannie. It is an issue in this organisa-tion. The biggest thing is the lack of consensus about what is a woman… Men who claim they are women inside have no idea of what it isto be a woman.The experience that CASA5 had with a male-bodied transgender workerhad resulted in strong disagreement among the staff , which the centrewas attempting to resolve: ‘there is a lot of debate and the issue remainscontentious’.Male-bodied transgenders as clientsIt was more common for the centres to have policies about whether or notto accept male-bodied transgenders as clients and the implications of accept-ing them diff ered depending on the type of service off ered. Women’s healthcentre staff are specially trained to understand and manage health concernsthat are peculiar to women. They are not trained to deal with issues aroundsex-reassignment surgery and hormone treatment, nor are they trained in thespecial mental health issues experienced by male-bodied transgenders, whichinclude the trauma of questioning gender identity, coming out as transgender,transitioning and adjusting to life as a man who has transgendered. Trainingstaff and making resources available to male-bodied persons is, inevitably, adiversion of energies and funds away from women’s health. All of the wom-en’s health centres in this study admitted only clients whom they consideredto be female, but for some this included male-bodied transgenders. Thosewho accepted male-bodied transgenders did so in the belief that a man whoidentifi es as a woman is a woman, despite not having a woman’s anatomy andpossibly having a penis. For the same reason they excluded female-bodiedtransgenders, in the belief that a woman who identifi es as a man is a man,despite having a woman’s anatomy. Female-bodied transgenders, however, dosuff er from the same health issues as women who do not transgender, as wellas the harms created by surgery and hormones, and may thus be more easilytreated in a women’s facility. One interviewee, WH2, explained that thoughshe would have preferred not to include male-bodied transgenders because of the diff erent health issues involved, she feared that any other course wouldlead to loss of funding, since state funding agencies had policies against suchdiscrimination.The centre that WH1 represented rejected female-bodied transgenderswho presented with female health issues but were prepared to accept male-bodied transgenders, for whose health needs they had no training or expert-ise. WH1 explained that her centre had been approached by a transgendersupport group who asked them to help male-bodied transgenders to monitortheir hormone treatment, and off ered help with information about trans-genderism as well as advice on developing a policy. WH1 admitted that, atthe time the policy was formed, there was ‘some robust discussion aroundfeminism, violence against women and what it is to be a woman’. Fromthe discussions, WH1 gained the impression that most of the workers at thecentre agreed that male-bodied transgenders should be included. However,an email interviewee who had worked at the centre at the time said that theconfl ict experienced by the workers, who had polarised, was severe. She hadbeen present during discussions with male-bodied transgender representa-tives and when she asked them why they did not go to a transgender supportgroup to have their needs met, one of them ‘held forth about wanting to beaccepted as a woman and wanting to be among women … to see his iden-tity confi rmed by being among women’. Expertise in transgender health,it seems, was less important than gaining access to women-only services,and gaining the important goal of getting women staff to recognise them as‘women’. Attendance and employment in women’s services serve a particularfunction for men who transgender that has nothing to do with the purposesfor which those services were established, that is, the opportunity to havetheir ‘womanhood’ affirmed.The issues involved in including male-bodied transgenders as clients inwomen’s domestic violence refuges/shelters and rape crisis centres are diff er-ent from those in women’s health centres. The perpetrators of such violenceagainst women are men, and these facilities off er space in which women canfeel safe, free of any threat from male abusers or the triggering eff ects of see-ing and being dealt with by men. Though male-bodied transgenders also suf-fer violence, the perpetrators are unlikely to be women and, though they maywish to be in spaces from which men who have not transgendered are absent,this should not be at the expense of the needs of women survivors. The inter-viewees in the study had mixed feelings. One interviewee, WR2, when askedabout transgender clients, immediately replied, ‘No we’re very clear that it isonly women and children we work with’, but she then thought further abouther reply, and said, ‘Aahh I think if she identifi es as a woman ahh I think she’dmeet the criteria.’ CASA5 felt unsure of how to respond on the issue of male-bodied transgender clients: ‘The male and female experience of socialisation is diff erent … I feel confl icted and confused about where I stand. It bringsup contradictory things for me, very complicated.’ In the end she re-affirmedthe need for retaining women-only spaces on the basis that male-bodiedtransgenders were not, in fact, women. She suggested that separate servicesshould be provided for transgenders. Unfortunately, for male-bodied trans-genders, such separate services may not be acceptable because they wouldnot satisfy the need for affirmation as a ‘woman’ that a women-only servicecan provide. One of the services off ered by CASAs and women’s refuges wasgroup-discussion therapy facilitated by a skilled counsellor, and it was in rela-tion to this important facility that concerns about male-bodied transgendersmixing with women clients was greatest. CASA5 said, ‘it would take awaythe safe space for some (women)’. CASA6 had experience of attempts to runmixed groups and felt that her women clients would object to the presence ofmale-bodied transgenders, so they would have to have the choice of separategroups that did not contain them, a development that would require extrafunding and resources.The experience of WR1 illustrates the problems that can arise with male-bodied transgender clients. WR1’s centre has a non-discrimination policy, andtheir clients are referred from mainstream health services and the police. So theyfeel they have no choice but to accept whoever is referred to them. WR1 hada person referred to the centre as a woman, who presented in women’s cloth-ing. Staff realised through mannerisms and an Adam’s apple that this person waseither a cross-dresser or a man who had transgendered. However, because hehad been referred, and because of anti-discrimination laws, they felt they hadno choice but to accept him as a client. They originally placed him in one ofthe accommodation units with women, but the women complained and saidthey ‘did not want someone with a penis with them’. One said, ‘I’m not goingin there, he’s got a penis.’ The transgender client could not be placed withwomen and children, and had to be placed on his own in a unit for six weeks,which had the eff ect of denying space to women, and prioritising the needs ofthis man over those of women who needed refuge. The workers at the refugefound the situation stressful as they did not know how to deal with it and wereafraid of breaking the law by discriminating. In the end they were forced todiscriminate against women and in favour of a male-bodied person with entiremale genitalia. Trans-inclusion policy in the case of this refuge, which was setup to service women’s needs, led to the subordination of women’s interests tothose of a person raised male and with male biology.Trans-inclusion policiesAs a corollary to changes in legislation that recognise male-bodied trans-genders as women who may then access women’s services, transgender activists have created best practice guides to train providers on how towelcome these male persons. These manuals can be quite instructive asto the lack of understanding, on the part of their authors, of the way thatthe subordination of women works. One manual, created by transgenderactivists from Canada – which has been infl uential and is provided as aresource on human rights and equality websites, trades union websites andlesbian and gay websites, for instance – argues that women should not beconcerned for their safety around male-bodied transgenders because theyare no more likely to pose a risk to women in a shelter than any other‘women’ (Darke and Cope, 2002 ). The Trans Inclusion Policy Manual statesthat ‘there is no evidence to suggest that trans … women are more ver-bally or physically abusive than other women’ (Darke and Cope, 2002 : 84).In fact there is a great deal of evidence to suggest that men, whether theychoose to transition or not, are violent towards women (Romito, 2008 ), butthe authors circumvent this difficulty by identifying male-bodied transgen-ders as ‘women’, and therefore no longer members of the class of personsthat is violent towards women. This stratagem does not work, unfortunately,because there is also much evidence that men who seek to transgender canbe counted in the ranks of rapists and murderers of women, as we saw inthe last chapter.The Canadian manual, having tossed aside the issue of women’s safety, goeson to consider, rather more sympathetically, the problems of the male-bodiedtransgenders themselves in shelters or refuges, such as the anxiety they mightfeel about ‘privacy’ if they still have penises. The manual states that most accom-modation will have single bathrooms. If the person with a penis has to sharea room with a woman, then a ‘temporary screen’ could be erected so that thepenis will not be visible when they are changing clothes. It is not acceptable,though, says the manual, for the transgender person to be asked to changeclothing in the bathroom. It is, perhaps, surprising that the issue of vulnerable,and often traumatised, women in shelters not wishing to see penises is not thefocus here, but the feelings of the person with the penis. The manual states thatrequiring a transgender person to use a single room is ‘akin to segregation’ andunacceptable. There is no excuse for such segregation, it says, just because awoman might be traumatised by violence and fi nd a transgender person trig-gering because of their masculine characteristics. The authors suggest that hav-ing to deal with masculine characteristics in their bedroom might be helpfulto a woman who has suff ered violence from men, because ‘[p]art of a survivor’shealing process is to learn to diff erentiate her abuser from others with a simi-lar characteristic: whether it’s the muscular arms of a non-trans woman or thecurly red hair of a trans-woman’ (Darke and Cope, 2002 : 86). Male-bodiedtransgenders can help women, we are told, to get over their concerns about having unknown men as their intimate companions. The manual expostulates,in an authoritarian tone, ‘The law is clear on this one: the discomfort of othersdoes not justify discrimination.’ In this way, the safety and dignity of women issubordinated to the comfort of men who have an id é e fi xe that they are, them-selves, women.The manual addresses the crucial question that is most likely to be relevantto women’s safety, of whether a woman can request not to be housed in adouble room with a male-bodied transgender. The answer it gives is that shecannot do so, and she is forced either to share with a male-bodied transgenderor exit the facility. The most intimate fraternisation with a person with malebiology, and most likely a penis, is entirely compulsory for her. The manualcompares the situation to that of a woman refusing to share with a ‘lesbian, ora woman of colour, or an Aboriginal woman’, all persons of female biologywho do not represent the class of persons that is violent towards women, andconcludes, ‘If a resident would rather leave than sleep in the same room as alesbian, a trans-woman, or an old woman, then that is her choice.’ In otherwords, she is seen as choosing to be homeless, and voluntarily abandoningher place of refuge because she is too prejudiced to remain (Darke and Cope, : 87).The manual gives the same cruel and insensitive advice for dealing witha recalcitrant woman who does not want to be counselled on her issues ofviolence and rape by a male-bodied transgender:You can deal with this situation in the same way you would if a serv-ice-user said she is not going to talk to a woman who has a disability,or to a woman she ‘knows’ is a lesbian. You can remind her that it isagainst the law for your organization to discriminate and that all staffare well-qualifi ed to provide services.(ibid.)The traumatised woman is to be guilt-tripped by accusations that she is dis-criminatory and prejudiced, and threatened into compliance. This sort ofincongruous rhetoric, designed to force women to room, shower and con-sort with men who cross-dress, or male-bodied transgenders, has not had theeff ect of making all women’s services, particularly those that retain feministpersonnel and principles, agree to admit male persons. In fact, in the case ofVancouver Rape Relief, a signifi cant victory was achieved for women’s rightto women-only services. This case may signify that the ambitions revealedin the Canadian manual will not be realised, since it establishes the right ofwomen’s anti-violence services, in particular to reject men who transgenderfrom their organisations. A male-bodied transgender on the rape crisis hotline?Vancouver Rape ReliefAn important test case took place in relation to trans inclusion on a rape crisishotline, the case of Vancouver Rape Relief and Women’s Shelter (VRRWS).One of the services off ered by VRRWS is a twenty-four-hour rape crisis linethat, at the time of the transgender challenge, received approximately 1,calls each year from women who had experienced sexual assault includingrape, incest, other forms of violence and sexual harassment from men. In VRRWS refused training to a male-bodied and postoperative trans-gender, Nixon, who sought to become a counsellor at the centre, but wasrecognised as a man on the basis of his appearance (Mathen, 2004 ). VRRWS’sposition was that women must feel safe with the persons providing services tothem and that such safety was compromised if a woman, who was a victim ofmale violence, is off ered a service by a man or a person who had not alwaysbeen a woman and was raised as a male (Mayeda, 2005 ).Though refused training as a peer counsellor, Nixon was invited tosupport the centre in another capacity, such as participating in fund rais-ing. Nixon insisted on being a peer counsellor and fi led a Human RightsComplaint. VRRWS sought a negotiated settlement, but Nixon was deter-mined to legally win the right to be a counsellor. Nixon’s argument wasthat all persons must be assessed individually in relation to the service oremployment that was being off ered. If he had won, as VRRWS founder LeeLakeman points out, this would have opened the doors to men to be seenas qualifi ed for all positions in any women’s organisation (Murphy, 2012 ). Itpotentially also sets a precedent for the dominant group, e.g. white, middleclass, male, to take positions on bodies that represent indigenous or ethnicminority groups.In January 2002, the Tribunal decision went in favour of Nixon on thegrounds that VRRWS had not proven that ‘experience as a girl and womanwas necessary to becoming a peer-counsellor to raped and battered woman’.In August 2003, the British Columbia Supreme Court conducted a judi-cial review of the Tribunal decision, and set it aside in favour of VRRWS.Nixon appealed in 2005 to the British Columbia Court of Appeal and inDecember 2005 the Court unanimously decided in favour of VRRWS,which is now permitted to restrict their selection of volunteers to excludethose born biologically male and brought up as males, and the shelter has theright to determine its own membership (Sisyphe, 2005 ). The decision fromthe British Columbia Supreme Court (BCSC) in December 2003 has set aprecedent. It has already been cited in forty-two decisions of the Tribunal andthe BCSC (Sisyphe, 2005 ). The case has also been used in Canada by indi-genous Canadians to argue, successfully, that they had the right to exclude a non-aboriginal man who applied for a position as an executive director of anindigenous organisation. The Nixon v. Vancouver Rape Relief case causeddeep divisions in the feminist and lesbian communities of Canada, and poi-soned the political atmosphere.When women’s services enable transgender access they can lose theirwomen-only status, and have to abandon the objectives which they werefounded to address. For instance, the women’s health service in San Franciscofounded by famous lesbian activists Del Martin and Phyllis Lyon and estab-lished to provide health care and health education for women, especially forlesbians, has changed its name from Lyon Martin Women’s Health Services toLyon Martin Health Services as it now also provides health care for transgenderpeople (Lyon Martin Health Services, 2008 ).Identity politics and service provisionThere are other categories of persons with ‘identities’ that do not match theirbodies, besides transgenders, which are creating online communities anddemanding rights. This could potentially create problems for other forms ofservice provision, when services targeted at particular disadvantaged groupsbecome subject to demands from persons who have a purely psychologicalidentifi cation with those constituencies. Staff at facilities and services target-ing people with disabilities might face somewhat similar dilemmas to thoserunning women’s shelters, in terms of the best use of resources, if policiesrequired them to accept transableists as clients. Transableists, after all, are able-bodied persons who consider that they have the identities of persons withdisabilities, and they may not need support in quite the same way as thosepeople who actually have disabilities do. In cases where a male-bodied trans-gender is also personating a person with disabilities, it may be that the workand diversions of energy required to serve the needs of someone with cumu-lative layers of delusion will seem an unreasonable use of resources.A transableist featured in an episode of National Geographic ’s Taboo series,Chloe Jennings-White, is also a male-bodied transgender (Jennings-White,n.d.). Chloe lives as a paraplegic in a wheelchair, but does not have a disabil-ity. The documentary does not mention that Chloe is not female and onlydeals with one of the personations, transableism, involved. Chloe (Clive) is ascientist with a Cambridge University PhD, whose hobby is one most usuallyengaged in by able-bodied persons, rock climbing (ibid.). He was a mar-ried heterosexual man with two children before embarking on his career ofimpersonation. It is interesting to consider whether, if Chloe were to requesta place in a specialised housing unit for persons with disabilities, accommo-dation would be made. The problem of identifi cation with disability, race,sex, by persons, mainly men, who do not have the experience or physiology associated with those categories, is a growing one and not just related totransgenderism.The most intimate of women’s spaces – women’s bodiesThe most important space for women is their bodies. It is men’s invasion andoccupation of women’s physical selves that has been identifi ed by feministsas the foundation of women’s subordination. Men have, historically, sold andswapped women as property in marriage and prostitution so that their bodiescan be used for sex and reproduction (Lerner, 1987 ). The attempt to wrestcontrol of their bodies from individual men and from patriarchal laws andinstitutions has been perhaps the most important underlying impetus for fem-inist activity, because without such control women have no chance to accessany other forms of freedom. Abortion has been key to feminist activism, as awoman who cannot control reproduction becomes simply a vehicle for thepurposes of others. Similarly, a woman’s right to defi ne her own sexuality, toselect only herself as a sexual partner, to choose celibacy, or to choose to relatesexually to carefully selected others, has been understood as central to women’sright to self-determination. It is perhaps not surprising, then, that male-bodiedtransgenders, in line with the generations of men who have sought to controlwomen’s bodies, consider that this is an important space to occupy.The right of women to sexual self-determination is directly contra-dicted in the attempt by some transgender activists to force women to openup their vaginas for sexual use by these men’s penises. In an extraordinaryexample of what political scientist Carole Pateman calls the male right ofaccess, some transgender activists are now seeking to guilt-trip lesbians intoallowing penises into their bodies (Pateman, 1988 ). This is taking placethrough a campaign to demolish what these transgender activists call the‘cotton ceiling’, a term that is based upon the feminist understanding thatwomen in public life face a ‘glass ceiling’ that prohibits access to men’sinner sanctums. The ‘cotton ceiling’, a term invented by the transgenderporn actor, Drew Deveaux, comprises women’s underpants, which createa barrier against penetration by the penises of male-bodied transgenders(Garmon, 2012 ). The idea that the reluctance of women and lesbians toservice these penises is a problem to be taken seriously and overcome, hasachieved such acceptability that the very malestream organisation, PlannedParenthood, facilitated a workshop on the ‘cotton ceiling’ at their confer-ence in Toronto, called ‘Pleasures and Possibilities’, in 2011. This workshopwas for male-bodied transgenders only, that is a space from which womenwere excluded, at which these men could discuss tactics to get into thebodies of lesbians or ‘cis’ women in general who were resistant to theircharms (Planned Parenthood, 2011 ). The workshop was called ‘Overcoming the Cotton Ceiling: BreakingDown Sexual Barriers for Queer Trans Women’ and run by transgenderactivist, Morgan Page (Page, 2011 ). The workshop description states,Overcoming the Cotton Ceiling will explore the sexual barriers queertrans women face within the broader queer women’s communitiesthrough group discussions and the hands-on creation of visual repre-sentations of these barriers. Participants will work together to identifybarriers, strategize ways to overcome them, and build community.(Page, 2011 )The campaign relies on guilt-tripping, in which women who resist areaccused of transphobia or transmisogyny, in an attempt to induce them toadmit unwanted penises to their bodies. In the cotton ceiling campaign,women’s right to sexual self-determination is redefi ned as a form of discrim-ination against male-bodied persons, which deserves to be zealously opposed.The male-bodied transgender activists who campaign to gain access to wom-en’s bodies in this way call their penises ‘lady sticks’. The origins of this rathersurprising term are informative. It is commonly used in transgender porn-ography, in which men with penises are prostituted for the sexual pleasure ofmale consumers. Thus, one transgender porn website, Shemale Models Tube,has this description of one of the male-bodied transgenders in a porn video:‘Ms. Meat is a horny girl who loves getting her lady stick sucked off all daylong’ (Shemale Models Tube, n.d.). It is, however, unreasonable to expect thatlesbians and feminists should suspend disbelief in order to facilitate the sexualfantasy lives of these men with penises. The quite basic demands by womenthat they should have the right to a self-defi ned sexuality and choice in whothey love are too important.The practice of separating from men to create political and social space wasfundamental to feminism from the 1970s onwards. Similarly, the creation ofservices targeted specifi cally at women was a triumph of that era and hashad very important results in improving women’s health and safety. EstelleFreedman argued, as far back as 1979 , that women-only spaces were crucialto feminism in the early twentieth century too: ‘The decline of feminism inthe 1920s can be attributed in part to the devaluation of women’s culturein general and of separate female institutions in particular’ (Freedman, 1979 :). The transgender challenge has been a signifi cant factor in the demise ofthe spaces and services that second wave feminism created. Along the way ithas caused serious internal strife in feminist and lesbian communities, which has diverted time, energy and resources and led to disillusionment and somedespair. If women’s services and spaces, which are fundamental to the possi-bilities of feminist revival in the present, are to continue or be created anew,then the right of women to gather without men, whether those are men whohave transgendered or not, has to be promoted and respected.The abolition of genderThe ‘gender’ belief system, that is, the idea that there are essential diff erencesbetween women and men, forms the justifi cation and sorting system forwomen’s subordination. This book has focused on one problematic productof this system in the present, transgenderism, and sought to show its harms,and it has argued that ‘gender’, as it is encapsulated in transgenderism, hurtsmany. The transgenders themselves are hurt by regimes of hormonal and sur-gical treatments that may not reduce their suicidality, and are likely to leadto pain, physical harms and social isolation. They are hurt, too, by being solda myth, the idea that they can be changed into a diff erent sex through suchmeans, and that this is a reasonable ambition. As the regretters point out, thereis real tragedy in having lost body parts, as well as partners, contact with fam-ily and children, and suff ering loneliness and isolation as a result of the ped-dling of this myth by the ‘transsexual empire’ of endocrinologists, surgeons,psychologists and some psychiatrists.At this time, the ‘transsexual empire’ consists of far more than medical pro-fessionals. Myriad other personnel and organisations have become involved inpeddling this pernicious idea, including many lesbian and gay organisations,liberal feminist groups, student organisations, even educators, who consider,for instance, that such an entity as the ‘transgender child’ exists. Meanwhile,the serious unhappiness of those children, men and women who feel des-perate enough to pursue the harms of transgenderism are neglected. Thetreatment of transgenderism is iatrogenic, in that it purports to enact a curefor a problem of severe psychological distress, but in fact creates new harmsand neglects the underlying malady in favour of quackery. All of those whocollude with the myth of transgenderism, whether they be queer or ‘feminist’academics, or lesbian and gay law centres, need to take some responsibility forthe harms that they are supporting. For those in lesbian and gay, and feministcommunities who might say that they have nothing to do with transgender-ism and just try to avoid the subject, perhaps because they fear the damage to their reputations, I would say that it is past time to take this hugely harmfulphenomenon seriously. As this book has sought to show, the harms are soegregious that it is not ethically acceptable to turn away.Gender, in the form of transgenderism, hurts in many ways that do notjust pertain to transgenders themselves. It hurts the wives, partners and familymembers of men and women who transgender, causing them acute distressand loss so severe that some researchers are prepared to call this post-trau-matic stress disorder. It hurts, too, the feminist movement, and threatens thegains feminists have fought for in the creation of women-only services andspaces. The very few women-only spaces that still exist, such as the MichiganWomyn’s Music Festival, are subjected to campaigns of bullying and intimi-dation. It undermines and causes huge confusion in feminist academia andfeminist theory, to the extent that the biological reality of women’s lives, onthe basis of which, and through which, females are relegated to subordinatestatus is disappeared, relegated like the dinosaur to history and museums.Gender hurts, too, in terms of the time, energy and resources that arerequired to provide legal reform, facilities, and services to support those whohave been transgendered. School, college and university counsellors are trainedin and expected to employ transgender ideology and politics (GenderedIntelligence, 2009–2013). City councils and workplaces are required to accesstraining and instigate policies that comply with transgender logic. The UKgovernment’s Equality and Human Right Commission website, for instance,contains guides for employers, schools, health care and social work staff onproviding services for and working with transgenders (Equality and HumanRights Commission, n.d.). Schools, colleges and local councils face demandsfor transgender facilities, which often involve the abolition of importantwomen-only spaces such as toilets. Youth services, prisons, shelters and manyother services are required to employ this logic too. All these institutions andpersonnel are being required to learn new language, much of which, such asthe term ‘cis’, relegates women – those who are biologically female – to asecondary status, as just one kind of woman, which is, in transgender logic,privileged over those men who travel under the illusion that they – personsborn and raised as males and with male biology – are themselves ‘women’.But the gender in transgenderism is positive for those who gain fi nan-cially from it, such as the medical professionals, counsellors, psychologists,endocrinologists, surgeons, pharmaceutical companies. It is also positive fora burgeoning online industry of providers of accoutrements, breast binders,wigs, man-size high-heeled shoes, and of advice, for example how to wearconstraining ‘feminine’ clothing and imitate ‘feminine’ posture. It is positivefor the considerable industry of transgender pornography and prostitutionthat is directed towards male cross-dressers and all men who are titillated bymaterial involving men with breast implants and penises, or men being forced to wear corsets, and so forth. It is positive, for those who do ‘diversity’ train-ing, who instruct businesses and public services to suspend their concernsabout transgenderism and comply with the right to ‘gender identity’, no mat-ter how this aff ects the rights of women. There is much money to be madefrom the transsexual empire.The gender in transgenderism is positive for the support and maintenanceof the gender scaff olding that upholds the edifi ce of male domination. In thisway transgenderism is hostile to the rights of all women. Gender functionsas a sorting system for male domination, identifying the subordinates and thedominants. It also provides the bars of the cage that imprison women in theirdaily lives. In the name of ‘gender’, girls and women grow up controllingtheir movements, taking up little space, being careful to show men and boysdeference lest they be attacked for man hating, or being bra-burning bitches.They treat their bodies as objects to be transformed for men’s gaze withmake-up and cosmetic surgery; show off areas that fashion dictates should benaked: chests, bum cracks, backs, stomachs; constrain their movement withtight clothing and shoes that harm and distort feet and cause pain. All theseare practices that maim the ambitions and desires of girls and women.Transgenderism supports the idea that there is something natural andinevitable about gender. This is despite the fact that feminists, and womenin general, constantly challenge ‘femininity’ in their actions and appearance.Transgender activists do not appreciate these challenges and seek to enforcetheir view that the protection of femininity should be the goal of feminismagainst clear evidence that many women, lesbians in particular, want no partof it. Gender functions as an ideological system that justifi es and organiseswomen’s subordination and for this reason it must be dismantled. Womenand girls cannot access full humanity and the rights and opportunities of fullhuman status (MacKinnon, 2005) while the idea that there are personalitytraits and appearance norms that are naturally and essentially associated withgirls and women still has social currency and serves to control and limit theirlives.The exhaustion of the category ‘transgender’The scope of the transgender empire may be reaching its peak, as transcriti-cism is increasing at a fast pace both within activist feminism and from wivesand regretters. There is an increasing groundswell of criticism of the con-cept and practice of transgenderism from a newly invigorated radical feministmovement. Moreover, the idea of transgenderism has become so vague andgeneral that the category is in danger of being exploded. The old idea thatmen possessed of a gender identity disorder could be eff ectively separated offfrom men who cross-dressed has been seriously undermined by a burgeoning development of men who claim to be women but retain their penises, and,like Virginia Prince, elect only to take hormones; and from men who saythat transgender treatment should be seen as cosmetic surgery that anyonecan choose. Some transgender activists seek to include all lesbians and gaymen within the category transgender. The term is fast losing any distinctivemeaning.The claims of transgender activists to ‘rights’ for their gender identities arein imminent danger of being discredited by a proliferation of rather moreunusual identity politics online, which are presently trying to build move-ments and rights-based political campaigns. Identity politics has been criti-cised by feminist theorists as emanating from the conservatism and extremeindividualism that began under neo-liberal political regimes from the 1980sonwards (McNeil, 1996 ). Identity politics replaced structural political ana-lysis, and meant that people could claim identities that were seen to arrivefrom the heavens rather than from the power structures of sex, race and class.Identity politics was consonant with the politics of supposedly empoweredconsumerism that this political period represented. Identities, and the para-phernalia that supported them, were consumed, rather than being seen asconstructed out of forces of oppression (Davis, 2011 ). This analysis is wellsuited to many of the identities that have resulted from the setting up of per-sonal blogs through Tumblr and led to online communities of persons whoconsider themselves to have the identities of other races, known as transeth-nics, or to be half human and half animal, therians, or fi ctional characters,fi ctives, or nonhuman, otherkin. The ‘Dragon Man’, O. Scribner, has provideda useful historical map of the development of the otherkin community, forinstance (Scribner, 2012 ). They adopt the political approach of transgender-ism, claiming that they are discriminated against at work for being wolvesor gnomes, and that people do not understand them and marginalise andexclude them. Max Read, in his article for the online magazine Gawker aboutthis phenomenon, quotes a Tumblr personality who seeks to keep up withthe more unusual trends in identity: ‘The relationship between legitimatesocial justice activists and delusional weirdos is ever-changing and gives fas-cinating insights into how activist communities work’ (Read, 2012 ). Onlinesocial activists who have accepted that persons should have human rightsbased on their ‘identities’, rather than on the basis that they are members ofoppressed groups, can have difficulty knowing where to draw the line. Thepolitics of these more unusual identities are based on transgenderism, butthere is considerably more scepticism online about how much respect shouldbe paid to them. Claims by men that they are really women meet with a moresympathetic response than claims by a white woman that she has always beena Korean cat (Read, 2012 ). Transableism, an identity politics of persons who want to have limbs ampu-tated, or their backs broken so that they can be paraplegics, now has quite aconsiderable presence online and some support among medical professionalswho consider that the desire for amputation should be respected and havenamed it Body Integrity Identity Disorder (BIID) (Davis, 2011 ; First andFisher, 2012 ). The medical ethicist, Carl Elliott, argues that in fi fty years’ timeboth transgenderism, and its less respectable cousin, transableism, will bothseem shocking and retrograde (Eliott, 2000, 2003 ). As he says, ‘Fifty yearsago the suggestion that tens of thousands of people would someday wanttheir genitals surgically altered so that they could change their sex wouldhave been ludicrous’ (Elliott, 2003 : 230). In another fi fty years the culturalconditions may once again not be sympathetic to the idea of transgenderismor to BIID. The idea that bodies should be altered by the medical professionas a matter of ‘right’, because their owners consider they would prefer to beanother sex or to have a disability, will likely seem extraordinary and seriouslyharmful.It is puzzling that men who claim to be women have achieved so muchmore public acceptance and legal support, when those engaging in activ-ities that are not necessarily very diff erent are not receiving such affirm-ation. It is likely to be the acceptance of the essential nature of genderthat creates the nest bed for the acceptance of transgenderism. The ideaof ‘gender’, because it is seen as natural and necessary and indeed under-writes the social formation of male dominant societies, can be understoodas acceptable even when it appears in unusual places or persons. Gender inany form is more acceptable and understandable than the absence of gen-der. The removal of arms and legs, self-castration and voluntary blindnessare not supported by such a profoundly embedded belief system and can beidentifi ed as unreasonable, in a way that the pursuit of body modifi cation tocreate a simulacrum of womanhood on a male body is not.Feminism and the end of genderIf the growing new wave of feminism has more success in challenging theedifi ce of gender than previous stages in women’s emancipation have had,transgenderism will disappear. ‘Gender diff erence’ is both based upon andused to explain women’s material inequality. When that inequality is chal-lenged, the requirement that women should behave as subordinates will beundermined too, because the fact that women take up little space and keeptheir knees together is the appearance correlate of the fact that they makeonly two-thirds of the money that a man does in his lifetime. When womenare not under pressure to wear the clothing of subordinates, then their attire will have less appeal to men’s masochism, and the variety of transgenderismthat results from men’s interest in cross-dressing will have no rationale. Atpresent appearance norms for women represent their lower status and thusconstraint, inability to move easily through high heels, revelation of fl esh,shaving and painting signify womanhood and off er to men all the delightsof self-abasement when they adopt them. Cross-dressing by men will notmake sense in a future when fl at shoes and trousers can be worn by eithersex, and there is no clothing redolent of subordination that supplies the thrillof submission.The new wave of feminism promises greater movement towards a futurethat is not so tightly structured around the worship of aggressive masculinityand the institution of heterosexuality, and this may make it less imperativefor those men who presently transgender to avoid being homosexual to doso. It may remove the social stigma that propels them to change their bodiesin order to love the same sex. For lesbians and other women who seek toavoid the low wages, social denigration and enforced humiliation of becom-ing ‘feminine’, and who may want to love other women without social disap-proval, greater sex equality will remove the motivation to transition. A worldin which there is less violence by men towards girls and women will provideless reason for women to wish to vacate the female bodies in which they havebeen abused. Being a girl or woman will not be a liability.But the new wave of feminism must confront new challenges. Transgenderactivists are waging a struggle for the survival of their ideology, which involvesonline abuse and campaigns of harassment, public assaults upon feministsand campaigns to prevent feminist freedom of speech and association. Theopponents are mostly men who consider they are really women, and in male-dominated societies, men are powerful and have authority. Their sexual pro-clivities are protected, so that pornography and prostitution are preserved bygovernments to seduce male citizens and acquire their votes. Male sexualinterests created out of women’s subordination are zealously respected. Butthe new wave of feminism must confront new challenges from the med-ical and institutional support of gender, too. Support for transgenderism isgovernment policy in the UK (Equality and Human Rights Commission,n.d.). In a science fi ction twist, the state now oversees the construction andmaintenance of sex role stereotypes, through the UK legislation in which apanel of experts adjudicates on the ‘gender’ of applicants for ‘gender recog-nition certifi cates’ (Jeff reys, 2008 ). This is a long way from the heady days ofthe 1970s, when the feminist project was to eliminate what were then calledsex roles. State policy is now wedded to the construction of ‘gender’ and themost insulting caricatures of womanhood, to the extent of accepting thatthese should be infl icted upon children, through guidelines on transgenderchildren from the UK’s National Health Service. I can remember in the early s when I was in the National Union of Teachers women’s group inManchester, UK, that our foremost task was the removal of sex role stereo-typing from school textbooks. Janet, we considered, should not be restrictedto helping her mother in the kitchen while John got to tinker with the familycar. All that optimism seems a long time ago now. States, legislatures, muchof the feminist academy, and lesbian and gay organisations are involved in agender protection racket. The new wave of feminist activism that seeks toabolish gender is on a direct collision course with the protection of gender.There will be interesting times ahead.

A C K N O W L E D G M E N T SThis book has been long in process. It began as a conference paper delivered at the New England Regional American Academy of Religion Meeting in 1972. Much of it had another life as my doctoral dissertation, which was finished at Boston College in 1977. Finally, it metamorphosed into a book. There are many people to thank for all of this.My parents’ love, trust, and support have been an important source of encouragement. Many of my students offered creative insights and critical commentary as the work was in progress. I would like to thank Jan Stiefel who, in proofreading with me, read the entire manuscript aloud. Amy Hines and Judy Gold were valuable search assistants who found material for me often at short notice.Chris Decker applied her creative and prestidigitatory talents to the index of this book, as well as to the proofreading of the galleys. Anne Dellenbaugh snooped out many difficult-to-find sources, read over many of these herself, offered original comments, and taught me how to sail.viiviiiSome people read selected parts of my work, either in chapter or in article form, and made helpful suggestions.Among these are Jackie Pritzen, Fern Johnson, and Lisa Buck. Eileen van Tassell was particularly helpful in reading over Chapter II. Julia Stanley assisted in clarifying several of my linguistic applications. Andrea Dworkin commented on Chapter IV.Mary Howell and Max Stackhouse served on my dissertation committee and read this manuscript in another one of its lives. Mary Howell helped me to explain the medical aspects of the issue and to integrate certain ethical aspects with issues current in the women’s health movement. Max Stackhouse assisted me in organizing the methodological aspects of my work. Michael Gross has been both a supportive colleague and critic. In reading the manuscript early on, he gave me invaluable suggestions on the sex difference literature, Chapter II, and the history of medicine and science.For their friendship and support, I would like to thank Kate Lehmann, Linda Scaparotti, Karin Krut, Kath Wetzel, and Marcia Liebermann. For many years, Wilma Miley has been a very special friend and supporter. Michelle Cliff gave me many insights into the publishing world and encouraged, in many ways, the publication of this book. I have known Emily Culpepper since I first began work on this topic. She has provided me with many resources and insights, and she invented the key phrase that I use throughout this book (male-to-constructed-female). Conversations with Linda Barufaldi were always fun, and her friendship and creativity have been important in the process of this book. Nelle Morton’s work, example, and friendship have profoundly affected my life and work. Robin Morgan has encouraged my work in this area for many years. Her writing, insight, and counsel have been vital to me.Nancy Sunflower gave an intelligent and careful typing of the manuscript. Mary Ann Lash made editorial suggestions which helped to clarify the content and structure of my book.Adrienne Rich has been a very special friend and critic.ixShe has read the manuscript through all of its stages and provided resources, creative criticism, and constant encouragement. Her work, and her recognition of my work, have meant a great deal to me in the process of this writing.I hope the dedication of this book adequately expresses the gratitude I owe to Mary Daly. Her friendship, wisdom, and creativity are enspiriting and, more than anyone, she has sparked my creativity. It is difficult for me to separate my words and ideas from her own.Pat Hynes has been with this book in the deepest way.She has read the manuscript and made detailed, discerning, and perceptive observations throughout. To her, I say that“ Friendship is a divine affection. ” Be-ing with her, in all ways, is a life-giving experience.I N T R O D U C T I O N TO T H E1994 E D I T I O NThis year, 1994, is the fifteenth anniversary of the publication of The Transsexual Empire. Shortly after the book was published in 1979, Johns Hopkins, which was the first U. S.medical institution to perform transsexual surgery, phased out the procedure and dismantled its Gender Identity Committee. Although some of my friends credited The Transsexual Empire as an important influence on the termination of the surgery, I think the closing of Johns Hopkins’s doors had much more to do with several other factors, some announced and some not publicized.The publicized reason was a study by Jon Meyer, psychiatrist and director of the Johns Hopkins sexual consultation program, which found that there was no difference in long-term adjustment for individuals who undergo the surgery and those who do not. Meyer, after keeping follow-up records on his patients’ postoperative acceptance of their new gender —using such indicators as employment status, marital and cohabitation success, psychological and legal problems—concluded that the surgery served “as a palliative measure[but] it does not cure what is essentially a psychiatric disturbance. "1 This was the public reason for discontinuing the sur-surgery, and it was accompanied by points of view to the contrary from other transsexual experts and apologists who disputed the study’s methodology and small sample population, and accused Meyer of drawing unwarranted conclusions. It is my own hypothesis that other not-so-public reasons were also influential in the demise of the Johns Hopkins program. John Money, founder and chief publicist for the Hopkins program, member of the Gender Identity Committee, and author of numerous articles and books on transsexualism and intersexuality, had branched out into the realms of child pornography and incest. Money had lectured and written that incest need not necessarily affect a child adversely, and that the law should differentiate between traumatic and nontraum atic incest. “When the genuine pair-bonding of erotic love has existed between the two partners in incest, then the discovery and disbanding of their partnership, not the partnership itself, may be the source of trauma. [! ]"3 In his work on children and sexuality, Money and co-editor Gertrude Williams went so far as to state that a man who commits incest is a sexual deviant, which is “like being a religious deviant in a one-religion society. "4 Thus it could be construed that opposition to incest is comparable to religious intolerance. Money's championing of good versus bad incest experiences fit neatly with the pro-incest theorizing and lobbying supported by many academics that began in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Money’s colleagues were reported to be uneasy with his public statements and writings on incest, and increasingly* over their alliance with him. Also during this same period, Howard Jones, one of the chief surgeons connected with the Johns Hopkins program, left the Baltimore institution to work on in vitro fertilization (IVF) techniques and eventually to co-found his own fertility and IVF clinic in Norfolk, Virginia. In spite of the closing of the Johns Hopkins program, other institutions have continued to perform the surgery.During the last fifteen years, however, medical opinion has become more critical of the previous rush to perform transsexual surgery. A 1991 article in The Lancet, while acknowl­xiiiedging that the surgery may benefit some individuals, nevertheless warned about “medical collusion with unattainable fantasy.. . . ” Despite the encouragement that has been given to medical professionals over the years to continue performing sex reassignment surgery, The Lancet editorial issued“strong caveats” and pointed especially to health and safety complications from hormonal treatments. Although I had written in 1979 about the danger of cancer resulting from lifelong exogenous estrogens taken by male-to-constructed female transsexuals, today there is stronger evidence of the risks resulting from estrogen treatment.Prescription of feminising or masculinising drugs carries considerable dangers, which m ust be fully understood and agreed to by the patient; the prescription should be continuously monitored by serum lipid m easurem ents in the biological female and liver function in the male, together with assessm ent of hormonal function, including prolactin concentrations in the female, and regular physical examination. Despite these caveats, transsexual surgery continues to be performed. Since the publication of The Transsexual Empire, however, the number of sex reassignment clinics and centers appears neither to have increased nor decreased but to be maintained in a holding pattern. Because the records kept on transsexual surgery, especially when done through private clinics, are not easily accessible, it is difficult to obtain accurate statistics.Transsexualism remains, as in 1979, largely a male phenomenon. Female-to-constructed-male transsexuals are relatively rare. For example, of the transsexual surgeries currently performed at the University of Minnesota’s Program in Human Sexuality, the second U. S. institution to perform the surgery, 85 percent are male to female. 7 More interesting are the reasons why.I still maintain that men, being freer to experiment than women, seek out and submit to the surgery more often. The discrepancy in numbers between men and women seeking and obtaining the surgery may also signal what some men may miscalculate as a way out of rigid gender roles. Womenxivhave had a political outlet, that is, feminism, which has helped change the distribution of power for women in society and challenge sex role rigidification. There has been no comparable “men’s movement” which has confronted, in an organized and political way, masculine gender roles, male sexual identity, and manhood standards. In fact, many feminists would argue that the current version of the men’s movement, as exemplified in the writings of Robert Bly, maintains a highly individualistic and superficial analysis of gender. In Bly’s writings and in the “sweatlodge” pursuit of male liberation enacted in its reactionary and mythopoetic drumbeating retreats, there is more antagonistic reaction to the demascu linization of men and to the crisis in masculine identity supposedly fostered by feminism, than to any real questioning and confrontation with male dominant power. At best, “Iron John” embraces the standard of men’s newfound ability to cry as a primary marker of male liberation.There are not many female-to-constructed male transsexuals because, as Pat Hynes has pointed out, women have been saturated with different and more feminizing forms of body altering hormonal and surgical procedures. 8 For many women—mostly white, western, and middle class—the construction of gender dissatisfaction has been medicalized through promotion of breast implants, hormone replacement therapy, infertility hormones and reproductive procedures, and plastic surgery. As opposed to men who seek opposite sex hormones and surgery, most women’s “gender dissatisfaction” has been in not being feminine enough, or in not fulfilling their female role, e. g., motherhood. Thus medical science has tended to direct women into conforming to male-dominant images and roles of femininity.Transsexual surgery is the invention of men initially developed for men. As I argued in 1979, female-to-male surgery is more difficult, costlier, has less to offer women (“it’s easier to construct a hole than a pole”), and is less publicized. Simone de Beauvoir gave us the insight that woman has been fabricated by man as “the other, ” the relative being—relative to himself as the norm. So it should not be surprising that men,xvwho have literally and figuratively, constructed women for centuries, are now “perfecting” the man-made women out of their own flesh.Behind this construction of man-made femininity is also the age-old patriarchal perception that women’s bodies should be available to men. Transsexual surgery, I admit, is a peculiar variation on this theme, but it points to the general accessibility of women, this time with men acquiring the female body not only as sexual and/or reproductive property, but through hormonal and surgical construction. Maleness is not so easy to come by, especially because the majority of vendors (professionals) are males themselves and more discomfited in giving it away. For if maleness were as easily available as femaleness, i. e., if men were as accessible, men too would be treated like women.THE MEDICAL MODELKey to the institutionalization of transsexual surgery is its medical-psychiatric monopoly, its development as a clinical entity—what has been called the transsexual syndrome.Since transsexualism effectively has become a medical problem, the medical model prevails as the legitimate and dominant form of therapy, requiring psychiatric evaluation, hormonal and surgical intervention, and often a host of countless secondary cosmetic surgeries, all meant to adjust the artifac tually evolving female body to the accepted feminine stereotypes.The medical model is also a disease model. And here exactly is the rub. If transsexualism is treated as a disease, then does desire qualify as disease? As Thomas Szasz asked in his New York Times review of The Transsexual Empire, does an old person who wants to be young suffer from the“disease” of being a “transchronological, ” or does a poor person who wants to be rich suffer from the “disease” of being a“transeconomical”? Does a Black person who wants to be white suffer from the “disease” of being a “transracial”? 9 Allxvithese questions, of course, raise larger social and political issues and remove these conjectural “diseases” from the medical/psychiatric framework.In speculating why a hypothetical Black person might want a pigmentation change, the person himself might say that he has always felt like a “white trapped in a Black body, ”as the transsexual commonly says that he is a “woman trapped in a male body. ” Yet it is only because transsexualism is widely accepted as a condition requiring psychiatric and medical intervention—in effect as a disease or diseaselike—that the social and political questions surrounding why a man might wish to be a woman are not primary. In the transracial area, by contrast, would a Black person who desperately wants to change skin color be so readily tracked along the medical route, ignoring that his or her request is encumbered by a society that discriminates against people on the basis of skin color? This very comparison is weak since there is no demand for transracial medical intervention precisely because most Blacks recognize that it is their society, not their skin, that needs changing.The medical framework and the plethora of professional experts that have colonized so-called gender dissatisfaction have been incapable of annexing race, age, or economic dissatisfaction. Even the very word, dissatisfaction, individualizes rather than politicizes what causes the so-called dissatisfaction. And so we talk about gender dissatisfaction in the transsexual realm, rather than gender oppression; whereas there is no comparable psychologizing of racial, age, and economic discrimination and oppression for which the individual solution would be medical treatment.The conglomerate of medical and other professional practitioners who coalesce to institutionalize transsexual treatment and surgery on the medical model—the transsexual empire—become shapers of acceptable and permissible gender-related behavior. For example, feminine and masculine stereotypes have become clinically institutionalized in the requirement that transsexuals prove they are true candidates for surgery by passing as members of the opposite sex.xvii“Passing” standards evaluate everything from an individual’s feminine dress, to feminine body language, to so-called feminine positions in intercourse. Most clinics require candidates for surgery to live out culturally-fabricated opposite sex behavior and roles for periods of six months to two years. Although some critics have claimed that this requirement has been reevaluated and minimized in recent years, much of the professional literature published since The Transsexual Empire still mentions ability to pass in the opposite sex role as a prerequisite for the surgery. Defining and treating transsexualism as a medical problem prevents the person experiencing so-called gender dissatisfaction from seeing it in a gender-challenging or feminist framework. Persons who think they are of the opposite sex are therefore not encouraged to see this desire as emanating from the social constraints of masculine and feminine role-defined behavior. Thus a man who is emotional or nurturing is encouraged to think of himself as a woman instead of as a man who is trying to break out of the masculine role. A primary effect of defining transsexualism as a medical problem is to encourage persons to view other persons (especially children) who do not engage in normative sex-role behavior as potential transsexuals. Ultimately transsexual surgery reinforces social conformity by encouraging the individual to become an agreeable participant in a role-defined society, substituting one sex role stereotype for the other. The medical solution becomes a. “social tranquilizer” reinforcing sexism and its foundation of sex-role conformity.With the increased medicalization of transsexualism, a certain group of people are encouraged to channel gender dissatisfaction into surgery. As previously mentioned, there is a continuum of surgeries, such as silicone breast implantation, designed to treat other forms of gender dissatisfaction. Since the 1950s, women who are dissatisfied with their bodies or parts of them, in this case the size of their breasts—in reality their gender image—have been encouraged to have them augmented by breast surgery and silicone implants, leadingxviii  to disastrous health and safety consequences. In the 1980s and 1990s, the plastic surgery industry, including the association of plastic surgeons, led a campaign to convince women that having small breasts was actually a physical deficiency.According to the American Society of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgeons, small breasts are not only a deformity but “a disease which in most patients results in feelings of inadequacy. ” 11 Thus millions of women have been led to change their breasts, not their image of themselves. Likewise, the medicalization of transsexualism promotes the ideology that the problem of gender dissatisfaction needs the intervention of the medical and surgical specialties to remedy the dissatisfaction by constructing a body of the opposite sex.CRITICAL RESPONSES AND RESPONSE TO THECRITICSThe reprinting of one’s book gives the author a golden opportunity to respond to reviews and criticisms of her work.Instead of trying to address every point, I focus on recurring themes in the reviews and criticisms.A frequent question that people have asked is “What’s the big deal? ” Many want to know why, the issue of transsexualism is of concern in the schema of pressing issues of feminism. As I saw it then and see it now, transsexualism goes to the question of what gender is, how to challenge it, and what reinforces gender stereotyping in a role-defined society.These questions have been raised subsequently in the context of more recent debates defined by the current argot of“transgender. ” Transsexualism is said to be a radical challenge to gender roles, breaking the boundaries of gender and transgressing its rigid lines. But if the transsexual merely exchanges one gender role for another, if the psychiatric and medical experts demand that transsexuals pass in the opposite gender role before they can undergo surgery, and if the outcome of such a sex reassignment is to endorse a femininity which, in many transsexuals, becomes a caricature of muchxixthat feminists have rejected about man-made femininity, then where is the challenge, the transgression, and the breaking of any real boundaries?Many critics of The Transsexual Empire claimed that although I attack gender conformity, I do so by essentializing sex and gender. This was surprising to me since a whole chapter of The Transsexual Empire was a critique of the theories of biological essentialism that grounded the etiology of transsexualism in biology—for example, in prenatal hormonal or in genetic factors. The work of John Money and Anke Ehrhardt had been especially influential in theorizing about prenatal hormonal factors, postulating the existence of an early critical period in which a particular but unspecified gender identity formation began (see Chapter II). Although the professional literature continues to debate the causes of transsexualism, a review of this literature in Psychoendoctri nology concluded that no hormonal effect on human gender identity formation has been established. The essentialism that I was accused of had more to do with my unwillingness to accept that men could become“real” women. By repudiating the claim that men become women through transsexual treatment and surgery, I was charged with promoting gender essentialism instead of destroying it. Alice Echols was one of the first to sound this critique, accusing me of being “committed to preserving rather than annihilating gender distinctions. ”13 The critique was taken further by Annie Woodhouse in a much misinterpreted analysis of The Transsexual Empire. In her book, Fantastic Women, Woodhouse contends that I assert there is something essential about femininity that cannot be changed, “something which cannot be acquired or learned, ” and that cannot be constructed surgically or culturally.. . . In th at case, ju st w hat is the point of engaging in struggle against gender divisions at all? If it all boils down to some innate, essential quality, any attem pt to change this state of affairs would be futile. In fact Raymond states th a t as sex reassignm ent surgery cannot change chromosomal sex, the transsexual does not really change sex a t all. xxWoodhouse conflates two distinctly different issues here. I did write that the transsexual does not really change sex at all. But this does not mean that gender is immutable; it means that men cannot become women via hormones and surgery. My view is that, using Woodhouse’s own words, the male-to-female transsexual is a “fantastic woman, ” the incarnation of a male fantasy of feeling like a woman trapped in a man’s body, the fantasy rendered flesh by a further male medical fantasy of surgically fashioning a male body into a female one. These fantasies are based in the male imagination, not in any female reality. It is this female reality that the surgically-constructed woman does not possess, not because women innately carry some essence of femininity but because these men have not had to live in a female body with all the history that entails. It is that history that is basic to female reality, and yes, history is based to a certain extent on female biology.Affirming that transsexual surgery cannot change the basic biology of chromosomal sex is not to say that chromosomal sex defines gender. But in some very real senses, female biology shapes female history—a history that men don’t have because of their sex—including the history of menstruation, the history of pregnancy or the capacity to become pregnant, the history of childbirth and abortion, the history of certain bodily cycles and life changes, and the history of female subordination in a male-dominant society. Note that I keep saying history. To deny that female history is, in part, based on female biology is like denying that important aspects of Black history are based on skin color. As with biological skin color, female biology doesn’t confer an essential femininity; rather it confers a historical reality about what it means to be bom with XX chromosomes.As Somer Brobribb has written, any mention of the female body subjects the writer to the accusation of being dismissed as a female essentialist. “Any reference to the female body, especially its reproductive aspects, means our condemnation as 'biological determinists, ’ ‘dangerous essentialists’—veritable dinosaurs (mere egg-layers) outstripped by a postmod-ernism so androgynous there are no longer any identities or differences at all. ”15 Yet any serious feminist should be able to affirm the difference the body makes to one’s history without being accused of being a raging essentialist.I was also branded as an essentialist for disallowing that male-to-constructed females could become lesbians. In writing about this phenomenon of transsexed men who were identifying as lesbians and pressing to join feminist and lesbian groups, I had maintained that these men crave much more than female biology—that transsexually-constr ucted lesbians seek to possess the creative power that is associated with female biology. My logic was that since lesbian feminism signalled a total giving of women’s energy to women, it was this woman-identified energy that the transsexual who claims to be a lesbian wants for himself. Thus, certain men who wanted to become women would want to assimilate this more radical and total female being. Today, I would not use this phrase, female energy, since it is too vague and ethereal.Had I been more sociological in my description of what attracted transsexuals to defining themselves as lesbians, had I phrased this as an attraction to a sense of lesbian esprit de corps, or lesbian solidarity, rather than to lesbian creativity and energy, perhaps I would have passed muster. But I doubt it.The title of my book, The Transsexual Empire, bothered another group of critics. The title was meant to convey the primary thesis that transsexualism constitutes a sociopolitical program that is undercutting the movement to eradicate sex-role stereotyping and oppression in this culture. When I wrote this, many reviewers took it to mean that a vast male conspiracy was afoot to eradicate “native-born” women—the ultimate male plot to possess women totally. That was never what I meant, nor was it what I intended to convey.Rather the title, The Transsexual Empire, fixes attention on the system of transsexual surgery and the professional complexes and coalitions that create it in the name of therapy for the suffering individual. In designating it as an “empire”and calling it a “sociopolitical program, ” my point was to fo-xxiicus on its institutional nature, i. e., its systemic dimensions, not anything quite so neatly packaged as a conspiracy. In giving us the concept of “the banality of evil, ” Hannah Arendt reminded us that wrongdoing and destruction are not always radically intentional or the result of planned conspiracies, but they may be terribly ordinary. I never meant that transsexualism was the result of male medical monsters or biomedical conspiracies. Things are not so simple, and the objective of The Transsexual Empire was to convey the complexity of its institutionalized foundation.The title of my book was satirized in “The Empire Strikes Back; a Posttranssexual Manifesto, ” an article written by Sandy Stone. Stone, a male-to-constructed female transsexual, was hired in the 1970s as a sound engineer by Olivia Records, the all-women recording company. This set off a controversy in feminist circles that I alluded to and commented on in The Transsexual Empire. Since then, it seems that Stone has gotten himself a thorough postmodernist education, and he now theorizes that, after all is said and done, the transsexual is really text, or perhaps a full-blown genre. “In the transsexual as text we may find the potential to map the refigured body onto conventional gender discourse and thereby disrupt it, to take advantage of the dissonances created by such a juxtaposition to fragment and reconstitute the elements of gender in new and unexpected geometries. ”In this postmodernist tour de force, Stone uses the language of postmodernism to mystify and distract from the real material and political questions of surgically turning men into women. “Nothing Matters, ” as Somer Brodribb so succinctly put it, except “the peculiar arrangement of reality as Idea. ”Brodribb eloquently captures what lies at the heart of the male-to-constructed female transsexual project.The rule is th at only man may appear as woman.. . . This is his narcissistic solution to his problem of the Other. But to do this, to create her in his image, he must be able to take her image.. . . And I have to make arguments th at sound extravagent to my ears, th a t women exist. That women are sensible.. . . And to contradict this,xxiiito speak against masculine culture, is so uncultured. The M asters of discourse have also said th a t it requires a great deal of sophistication to speak like a woman, clearly it’s best left to men. Their texts play with and parade a hysterical femininity, in our best interest of course, to help us transcend the category of woman we somehow got into. Transsexualism urges us to collude in the falsification of reality—that men can be real women—all in the pretense that transsexualism breaks down the barriers of sex repressiveness, sex role rigidity, and gender itself.As Stone would have it, the power of transsexualism is in simply acting. “The essence of transsexualism is the act of passing. A transsexual who passes is obeying the Derridean imperative. . . to begin to write oneself into the discourses by which one has been written. ”18 But transsexuals are not simply acting, nor are they text, or genre. Unlike impersonators, transsexuals are not participating in a performance in which the audience suspends disbelief for the duration of the show. They purport to be the real thing. And our suspension of disbelief in their synthetic nature is required as a moral imperative.Stone pays The Transsexual Empire the ultimate back-handed compliment. “Here in 1991, on the twelfth anniversary of its publication, it is still the definitive statement on transsexualism by a genetic female academic. ” Even a backhanded compliment is too generous, so a footnote is in order. “There is some hope to be taken that Judith Shapiro’s work will supercede Raymond’s as such a definitive statement. Shapiro’s accounts seem excellently balanced.. . . ”19 The balance appears to reside in the fact that Shapiro, in her 1991 essay on transsexualism, has appropriated much of my critique while taking pains to dissociate herself from it.There is much in Shapiro’s work that I recognize as my own. Shapiro writes that transsexuals are “more royalist than the king” in adhering to traditional gender norms and behavior. 20 She confirms the ways in which the attending professionals reinforce their own expectations of gender identityxxivbehavior in transsexuals. She acknowledges that surgery, while currently regarded as a “technologically sophisticated strategy, ” can also be seen as “a crude and primitive approach to issues of personal and social identity. ”21 And although she does not want to overdo a variation of what was originally my transracial analogy, she states that “sex change surgery is a bit like turning to dermatologists to solve the race problem. ”22 It seems that when all is said and done, what Shapiro objects to is my tone—“Raymond contemplated transsexualism with all the frustration and disgust of a missionary watching prime converts backslide into paganism and witchcraft. ”23 Shapiro steps back from the whole politics of transsexualism, ransacking anthropological literature for cross-cultural and historical validation, comparing transsexuals to the gender crossing of the Native American ber-dache, the xanith in Oman, and the woman-to-woman marriages in Africa, and reducing The Transsexual Empire to“ethnographic data on the feminine mystique that has characterized much feminist writing over the past couple of decades. ”Finally, there were some critics who charged me with intolerance. In my not accepting men as women, some critics accused me of not tolerating the difference of others. As I wrote in The Transsexual Empire, this kind of tolerance is a very passive position and only encourages the creation of more medical victims to sex role conformity. What I do accept is that men, and some women, who undergo transsexual surgery are terribly alienated from their bodies, so alienated that they think little of mutilating them. I accept the fact that transsexuals have suffered an enormous amount of physical and emotional pain. But I don’t accept the fact that someone’s desire to be a woman, or a man, makes one a woman or man. Or that the instrumentality of hormones and surgery creates a real woman or man. Certainly, male-to-constructed female transsexuals are entitled to the same humanity, the same respect and dignity, as is every other member of the human race—but as male human beings, or as individuals who have undergone transsexual procedures, not as women.THE POLITICS OF TRANSGENDERISMThe opening sentence of The Transsexual Empire was “Transsexualism has taken only twenty-five years to become a household word. ” Things were relatively simpler then, with normatively-different sexual and gender behavior pretty much encapsulated under the headings lesbian/homosexual, transvestism, and transsexualism. Today, fifteen years later, things are more complex, and a plethora of terms such as“transgendered, ” “re-gendered, ” “gender blending, ” “gender bending, ” “gender fucking, ” and “transhomosexuality” have been added to the lexicon of so-called gender dissonant behavior. The film tribute to certain aspects of the transgender phenomenon is “Paris Is Burning” and, more recently, “The Crying Game. ”The issue of transsexualism has been largely superseded by debates over transgenderism or what has been called“sexuality’s newest cutting edge. ” The term, transgender, covers preoperative and postoperative transsexuals, transvestites, drag queens, cross dressers, gays and lesbians, bisexuals, and straights who exhibit any kind of dress and/or behavior interpreted as “transgressing” gender roles. It is interesting that like transsexuals, the majority of transgender-ists are men who, rather than transcending, i. e., dismantling and going beyond gender roles, seek to combine aspects of traditional femininity with aspects of traditional masculinity.One side of the transgender phenomenon was written about in an article entitled “The Next Wave” in The Advocate.In this article, transgender was closely allied with transsexualism. Referring to a bar called the Motherlode in San Francisco, the majority of patrons were said to be “much more evolved in their gender expressions [than cross dressers].Hormones, breast implants, cosmetic surgery, and in some cases sexual reassignment surgery make dedication to being female more than a dress-up game for these women [sic]. ”Although lamenting that “transgender” had been excluded from the title of the 1992 gay and lesbian march on Washington, and faulting “radical feminists, the PC lesbians, and thexxviassimilationist gay men” for not accepting transgendered individuals into the movement, the article nevertheless is a brief for the virtues of what is called Transgender Nation.Many male transgenderists work as prostitutes in the sex industry. The article notes that “a high percentage of transgendered women [sic], primarily in the preoperative phase, have at one time or another engaged in sex work. ”26 Although prostitution is described as an economic necessity for most transgendered individuals, there is also the admission that it is “part of the discovery process that a transgendered woman[sic] may go through. Some of it is acting out fantasies, obsessions, or compulsions. It’s a sort of coming-of-age, a part of the transition, an identifying and validation process. ”27 So we have here, an idealizing of sexual exploitation and prostitution in the name of transgender transformation, identity, and maturity.This tale of transgender is also a rendition of how men are“turned on” by other men. According to The Advocate, the allure of gender ambiguity and the polymorphous sexuality exuded by transgenderists, the “hyperfeminine and hypersex-ual, ” “chick with a dick” scene, is said to be attractive to many men. 28 What is described as transgression of boundaries actually turns out to be conformity to sex roles once more, with many men flocking to hormones and surgery to attract other men as artifactual, ultrafeminine women. The article’s author does admit that many transgendered individuals, through surgery or hormones, try to become the image of the perfect woman, i. e., the Cindy Crawford-like model, and that disturbing “prefeminist” notions of femininity pervade the transgendered community, pitting those who undergo surgery (true transgenderists) against those who remain on hormones.Another variation on the transgender theme is what was once simply called cross dressing, transvestism, or drag. When Boy George accepted a Grammy award for Best New Artist in 1985, he thanked his U. S. audience for recognizing not only his music but “a good drag queen. ” Perhaps the more flamboyant U. S. version of Boy George is African-AmericanxxviiRuPaul, whose musical act has become a highly successful marketable commodity. Thriving on theatrical sexuality combined with pop music, RuPaul, as The New York Times phrased it, is “an amalgam of two distinct sexual archetypes: gender benders and soul divas. ”In RuPaul’s act, both “archetypes” depend upon the assimilation of stereotypical femininity, in the first instance by appropriating miniskirts, blond wigs, and platform heels and, in the second, by exaggerating femininity as “a birthright. ” For this conformity, RuPaul is called a “gender illusionist” and claims that what he is doing is more than men dressing in women’s clothes. It’s really about “the way everybody looks.Because what really counts is inside.. . . You’re bom naked, and the rest is drag. ”31 The New York Times article idealizes RuPaul as “a de facto social activist” who brings drag into the mature part of the twentieth century by not simply mimicking the voice and movements, say, of a Marilyn Monroe but rather by being “his own woman [sic]. ” It’s too bad “his own woman” looks and acts so much like the woman of man-made femininity. As Kathy Miriam writes, “While ‘transgenderism’foregrounds the reality that femininity is a male construct, it does so by preserving sex difference, i. e., the heterosexual institution. . . in contrast to being a strategy of disempowering (politically destroying) the social system which generates the category. ”There have been pleas from some feminist commentators to recognize that cross dressing, drag, and transvestism are on a continuum of masculinity and to sympathize with these ways in which some men are deviating from acceptable masculine gender behavior. And often men dressing as women is compared to women who wear pants. There is a false symmetry here. When most women put on pants, a necktie, combat boots, or a business-looking blazer, they are not trying to pass as men. Nor do most of these women stage theatrical performances that call attention to their cross dressing. They do not mimic, for profit, male behavior. Most women who wear male clothing are not trying to be men, nor to imitate men personally or professionally, nor do they expect to bexxviii  mistaken for men. And there is no significant number of women who fetishize certain articles of male clothing for sexual pleasure or gender relaxation.The reason that women wear pants is mainly comfort and convenience. Pants are practical in all types of weather and don’t make women physically vulnerable or encourage sexual harassment, as certain styles of feminine clothes do. More significantly, a woman putting on a man’s clothes is, in a sense, putting on male power status, whereas a man putting on women’s clothes is putting on parody. That drag queens and cross dressers can draw hoots and howls in audiences of mostly men says more about how women were and are perceived than it does about the supposed boundary-breaking behavior of gender-bending men who wear women’s clothes.Cross dressers, drag queens, and heterosexual transvestites—who clandestinely parade around in ultrafeminine dress while often retaining their public personas as straight, white, male conservative pillars of the community—depend upon a certain mimicry of women’s persons, roles, status, and dress. That some men may find gender relief, sexual pleasure, and/or stardom and financial profit in this mimicry does nothing to challenge the political power of the normative, dominant, powerful class of men that the male gender bender still belongs to. Cross dressing could be more accurately perceived as another form of male self-expression and exhibitionism. Scratching the surface of masculinity by flaunting its opposite conventions of femininity, whether in drag, cross dressing, or heterosexual transvestism, may incur the wrath of other men and expose the cross dressers to pain and punishment. But pain and punishment do not necessarily challenge the substance of masculinity that is male dominant political power. The mostly one-way traffic of men moving down the transgender highway is not new. Males have been imitating women on the stage and in religious rituals since time immemorial, but this has done nothing to change the reality that men, including many of these men, are in power.Going further than the one-dimensional femininity of the transvestite and cross dresser, many transgenderists mix and match, blending as much femininity or masculinity with itsxxixopposite into new gender recipes. The recipes, however, are a repackaging of the old gender roles. Transgenderists still adhere to many self-selected ingredients of these roles, although mixed and matched in a supposedly gender defiant way. But transgenderist defiance equals a kind of androgynous humanism, an individualist assertion of androgynous blending, rather than a political defiance of both roles. Many transgenderists seem to see masculinity and femininity as entities in and of themselves, to be preserved and grafted onto one another. This can take the form of switching back and forth, as in transvestism, or combining both. Much depends on appearances. While transgenderists break through the semblance of masculinity, they don't break through its political reality, that is, its power. And so androgynous humanism replaces feminist politics.THE TRANSGENDERED LESBIANAlthough transgenderism is largely a male phenomenon, there are women who claim it as their own. One of the more moving and historically rich accounts of the complexities of gender is the novel, Stone Butch Blues, by Leslie Feinberg.Stone Butch Blues is basically a transgender odyssey of a woman growing up in the gay bars and working-class factories of the 1950s and 1960s. Coming of age as a young “butch”in Buffalo, Feinberg movingly describes the working-class reality of this historical butch world with a sharp consciousness of its political aspects—a more powerful testimony to class politics than any Marxist analysis—but a less astute political analysis of gender than many readers will look and hope for throughout the book. In discussing the novel’s portrait of the butch-femme bar scene, one lesbian friend commented that the book takes no account of those lesbians, who like herself, inhabited the same bars but did not succumb to these fiercely defining and confining gendered roles.Feinberg’s accounts of the relationships between butches and femmes, many of whom were prostitutes, are moving and cogently described. Using the tools of eye and heart,xxxFeinberg lifts this world of butch and femme to a humanistic level, whereas straight history has consigned such individuals to the dregs of society. Tender and protective partnerships were forged often in the crucible of police brutality where, in the constant raids on bars, butches and femmes were swept into jail and made to pay for their gender transgressions through unrelenting, deliberate, and demeaning strippings, forced oral sex, and vicious gang rapes by the police.The novel has many insights, especially in its initial pages, into the world of gender dogmatism. Its disappointment is its failure to extend these personal insights into a political analysis of gender. A key turning point is when Jess, the butch protagonist in the novel, undergoes hormone treatment and breast surgery. Living and working as a butch has become too painful and fraught with harassment and violence, but so has the realization that Jess feels herself to be other than a woman—a “he-she, ” feeling neither like a woman or man but“different. ” “I don’t feel like a man trapped in a woman’s body. I just feel trapped. ”It is significant that the only woman in this novel who offers any real political challenge to the role-defined world of butch-femme is Theresa. Stone Butch Blues begins with a letter to Theresa and ends with the acknowledgment that she is the woman who “I [Jess] “still carry around in my heart. ” In the early 1970s, it was Theresa, Jess’s femme lover, who, after becoming active in feminist groups and activities at the campus where she worked, attempted to persuade Jess that“Anything that’s good for women is good for butches”(p. 138); and that anytime Jess disparages or disidentifies with other women, she is wounding herself. And when Jess makes the final decision to begin hormone treatment, Theresa responds, “Jess, I can’t go out with you in the world and pretend that you’re a man. I can’t pass as a straight woman and be happy” (p. 152).One gets a sense in these passages of the tensions between the old and the new gender-challenging worlds of two people who love each other but who have radically disparate ideas and thresholds of what it means to exist, or to reject exis­xxxitence, as women in a gender-defined society and how best to take on that society. And it is surprising that most of the story takes place not in the pre-feminist 1940s or 1950s, but in the emerging feminist consciousness and climate of the 1960s and 1970s, when other women are rejecting these roles and many forms of body-mutilating medicine.Some of the more insightful passages in the book illustrate Jess’s understanding of the line she had crossed after taking hormones to pass as a man: the differential treatment she received as a butch in contrast to her present passing as male and the ways in which women regard men and men in turn regard women. Jess notes that women are now afraid of her on the streets, that passing as a straight man makes her an instant expert on motorcycles, and that straight women who think she’s “cute” relate to her in a flirtatious parrying, a kind of courtship fencing. Finally, Jess observes that this latter behavior receives public encouragement and approval.Quite swiftly, Jess comes to the realization that not much has changed. “At first, everything was fun. The world stopped feeling like a gauntlet I had to run through. But very quickly I discovered that passing didn’t just mean slipping below the surface, it meant being buried alive. I was still me on the inside.. . . But I was no longer me on the outside”(p. 173). After undergoing continuous hormone treatments, her response to this disease is to proceed further with a double mastectomy, but this additional bodily alteration doesn’t resolve the question of who she really is. “I simply became a he—a man without a past. Who was I now—woman or man? That question could never be answered as long as those were the only choices; it could never be answered if it had to be asked” (p. 222). And so, after living for several years as a man and undergoing both hormone treatment and radical breast surgery, Jess stops the hormone injections that had refigured her bodily contours and secondary sex characteristics into a more masculine appearance, thus arriving in a no-person’s land.Stone Butch Blues is a personally moving but politically disappointing book. In the final part, there is a forsaking ofxxxiithe political insights that marked the beginning pages of Jess’s life as a butch and, initially, of her life as a hormonally-and surgically-constructed male. As opposed to a prior gender-consciousness—an awareness that a woman who looked like, acted like a man was subject to being brutalized by men, was attractive to women, and was disgusting to society, there is now a kind of retirement to a gender-neutral otherness. The hormones, the surgery, the cessation of hormone injections finally devolve into a long-suffering self-surrender to being other—not a woman who is a butch and not a woman who tries to pass as a man with the help of hormones and surgery, but a transgendered individual who identifies as simply other. In fact, Jess’s final transformation is from being woman-identified, to being other-identified. And Jess’s most intimate and personal relationships are no longer with women, especially lesbians, but with men who are cross dressers and who, like herself, presumably have undertaken hormones and/or surgery. Jess’s ultimate identification with otherness—in essence her disavowal of her own womanhood, not simply the disowning of a rigid femininity that society has reduced womanhood to—is at the heart of Feinberg’s final version and vision of transgenderism.GENDER BENDINGGender bending is a more recent version and vision of transgenderism, and k. d. lang is one of its more complex proponents. “Gender bending has always been lang's stock-in-trade. . . hers is a deeply subversive presence; after you watch her for a while you realize how warped your own stereotypes are. ”34 The gender bending that k. d. projects is definitely not the same as most male transgenderists who depend on surgery, hormones, passing as women, or mimicking women on stage. Hers is a more dimensioned, savvy, and feminist self-assertion that does not reduce gender bending to the flaunting of sexuality, à la Madonna, but expands it to point out the limits imposed upon both female gender andxxxiiisexuality. However, there is a mixed message in her gender-bending portrayals.Featured in a photo spread in the August, 1993 issue of Vanity Fair, k. d. lang does not define herself as a transgen derist but, instead, prides herself “on being 100 percent woman. ”36 There is much in the article that any feminist can identify with: k. d. ’s incredible talent and her rise up the professional ladder, defying any attempts to make her more feminine and thus palatable to audiences; the kind of physical freedom with which she moves on stage, so unlike any other female singer; the clothing she wears that doesn’t objectify or exploit her body; her refusal to engage in performances featuring her as a “heterosexual fantasy object”; her defense of animal rights and vegetarianism; her presentation of herself as her self, never hiding her lesbianism or denying lesbian rumors, culminating in her public “coming out. ” “She takes everything a woman is not supposed to be—big, funny, fearlessly defiant, physically powerful—and makes it not only O. K. but glorious. ”Why then capitulate to and capitalize on a role-defined, and sexually objectifying cover photo that muddles this portrait of gender resistance? If gender roles are challenged by a full-length cover spread in which a woman (k. d. ) poses in masculine vest, tie, pants, and boots as her face is being shaved by a scantily dressed and provocatively positioned Cindy Crawford, then aren’t we back to square one? The inside photo shoot was even more gender defined, with k. d.and Cindy somewhat stiffly acting up in what surely doesn’t cut it as a realistic lesbian sex scene, with k. d. depicted as“checking] out the curves on supermodel Cindy Crawford. ”Further, why pose for a picture that appears to depend upon some association that the viewer will make between k. d. licking a dish (? ) and k. d. licking a prick, with the caption, “I have a little bit of penis envy. They’re ridiculous but they’re cool. ”38 This is followed by a paean to male sexuality: “As much as I hate it, I admire the male sexual drive because it’s so primal and so animalistic. ”39 A new version of no means yes, “I want it, but not really, ” and having it both ways?xxxivIn the Vanity Fair portrait, we have another version of androgynous humanism in which gender bending unfortunately reduces to assimilation—transcending gender stereotyping by assimilating aspects of it, such as sexual objectification.Assimilationist behavior cannot fulfill political goals. When k. d. lang refuses to wear clothing or perform in ways that objectify her body on stage, she is issuing a real challenge to the encouraged female role of flaunting sexuality. But when k. d. lang's gender bending relies on being photographed with a woman whose body is sexualized in a way that lang herself would not stand for, something is wrong, and the sexual objectification of women is hardly challenged.Gender bending is gender identity condensed to the point of little or no feminist or lesbian politics. Although k. d. lang definitely does it better, she also conforms to the heterosexist script, dissipating the political message that lesbianism at its core, erodes rather than preserves hetero-roles. Taking Kathy Miriam’s words and putting them in another context, this kind of gender bending “works at eroding the landscape of the lesbian by assimilating it [in this case, heterosexist role-playing] into itself as a factor of patriarchal realism—by including it, rather than outright resisting it. ” Seen through this lens, transgenderism can be viewed as “a plot where even the ‘bad’ girls please men. ”The language of sexual conformity as sexual rebellion has come to dominate the public field. Transgenderism is the product of a historical period that circumscribes any challenge to sex roles and gender definitions to some form of assimilating these roles and definitions. In much of the western world, the general effect of the 1980s has been to move back the feminist gains of the 1960s and 1970s. It has encouraged a style rather than a politics of resistance, in which an expressive individualism has taken the place of collective political challenges to power. And in the process it has de-politicized gender by de-politicizing feminism. The new gender outlaw is the old gender conformist, only this time, we have men conforming to femininity and women conforming to masculinity.Or to be fair to another version of transgender, men andxxxvwomen mixing and matching but not moving beyond both.The transgenderist assumes the posture of rebellion, but only as restricted by the sex role scene, and going only as far as a melding of both roles.The ideal of transgender is provocative. On a personal level, it allows for a continuum of gendered expression. On a political level, it never moves off this continuum to an existence in which gender is truly transcended. Its supposedly iconoclastic rebellion against traditional gender confinement is more style than substance. What good is a gender outlaw who is still abiding by the law of gender?The claim for tolerance, based on the notion that transgenderism in all its forms is a form of gender resistance, is alluring but false. Instead, transgenderism reduces gender resistance to wardrobes, hormones, surgery, and posturing—anything but real sexual equality. A real sexual politics says yes to a view and reality of transgender that transforms, instead of conforms to, gender.Janice G. RaymondMontague, MassachusettsI N T R O D U C T I O NSome Commentson Method(for the Methodical)T r a n s s e x u a l is m highlights, in a unique way, several key issues in feminist studies—among them sex-role socialization, “ nature versus nurture, ” and definitions and boundaries of maleness and femaleness. Important issues in medical ethics, such as bodily mutilation and integrity, “nature” versus technology, medical research priorities, unnecessary surgery, and the inevitable issue of the medical model, are involved also.Transsexualism touches the boundaries of many of the existing academic disciplines in such a way as to raise fundamental questions about the territorial imperatives of biology, psychology, medicine, and the law, to name but a few. Questions about the causes of transsexualism and the proper methods of treatment have been hitherto restricted to the domain of psychology and medicine. But as a feminist ethicist I maintain that these issues of causation and treatment are imbued with male-defined values and philosophical/theological beliefs—beliefs about the so-called natures of women and men. When John Money states that the core of one’s gender identity is fixed by the age of eighteen months, his statement is fraught with certain normative beliefs about the changeability of human existence. Such beliefs become invisible in the mounds of supposed scientific data that Money offers about sex differences. Or when transsexuals and transsexual specialists relegate sex-role dissatisfaction and a subsequent desire for the qualities ascribed to the opposite sex to the category of transsexualism, this very classification forms a type of medical belief system that resembles what has classically been called theodicy.In this theodicy, as in all religious theodicies, the surrender of selfhood is necessary to a certain extent. In the medical theodicy, transsexuals surrender themselves to the transsexual therapists and technicians. The medical order then tells transsexuals what is healthy and unhealthy (the theological equivalents of good and evil). Thus the classification function of the term transsexualism analyzes a whole system of meaning that is endowed with an extraordinary power of structuring reality.This book is concerned with how medicine and psychology, in particular, function as secular religions in the area of transsexualism. Chapter II is devoted to an analysis of the scientific data on sex differences, especially the work of John Money and his associates. Chapter V presents the “triumph of the therapeutic, ” the “ medical model, ” and the medical-technical specialties as they function to generate values and beliefs concerning the cause, diagnosis, and treatment of transsexualism.My main point is to show how so-called health values of therapy, hormonal treatment, and surgery have replaced ethical values of choice, freedom, and autonomy; how these same “health” values have diffused critical awareness about the social context in which the problem of transsexualism arises; how more and more moral problems have been reclassified as technical problems; and indeed how the very notion of health itself, as generated by this medical model, has made genuine transcendence of the transsexual problem almost impossible.LANGUAGE: “ SAY WHAT YOU MEANAND MEAN WHAT YOU SAY”Words have meanings often undetected by those who use them. One graphic example of this is the use of the words masculinity and femininity, male and female, and he and she as they appear throughout the medical and psychological literature on transsexualism. Medical literature on transsexualism uses the words masculinity /masculine and femininity /feminine to indicate what its authors perceive to be real changes that take place, either through the administration of hormones and/or surgery. The psychological literature on transsexualism uses the same designations to talk about the gender identity and/or role of the transsexual, one of which the transsexual rejects in order to pursue the other, as if these stereotypes had some kind of ontological reality that was conferred by “feeling” that one is, for example, a “woman trapped in a man’s body. ”I use the terms masculinity/masculine and femininity/feminine to indicate that what really does take place when the transsexual is encouraged to pass as a woman, or when hormones and surgery are administered, is in fact the feminization of a man, or the masculinization of a woman.This is precisely what happens because masculinity and femininity are social constructs and stereotypes of behavior that are culturally prescribed for male and female bodies respectively, but that in the case of the transsexual, have nothing to do with a male or female body. Thus the male-to-constructed-female goes from one stereotype to the other. The words masculine and feminine are used throughout this work to indicate that a superficial, arti-factual, and socially and surgically constructed change is what takes place rather than a deep intrinsic change that encourages existential development. The stereotypical language is used intentionally to highlight the superficiality of the transsexual process. To feminize or masculinize into a cultural identity and role is to socialize one into a constructed identity and role. Similarly, in the sex-conversion surgery itself, what takes place is a surgical construction of body appearance that is brought in line with the bodystereotype of what a masculine or feminine body should look like in a gender-defined society; e. g., in a woman, a big bust, a curvacious figure, a small frame, etc. And indeed, as we shall note in Chapter I, transsexuals undergo an immense amount of polysurgery, much of it of a cosmetic nature, to bring themselves into line with the stereotype of their newly acquired body.Since I am highlighting that a superficial stereotyping process of masculinization or feminization is precisely what does take place in the transsexual situation, I shall omit putting the stereotypes in quotation marks or italicizing them in order to grant these words their utmost validity as the fabrications that they genuinely are. At the same time, however, I have chosen to put the words “he”or “she” and “male” and “female” in quotation marks when they refer to a pre- or postoperative transsexual. This is to indicate that, while transsexuals are in every way masculine or feminine, they are not fundamentally male or female. Maleness and femaleness are governed by certain chromosomes, and the subsequent history of being a chromosomal male or female. Masculinity and femininity are social and surgical constructs.Aside from the language of masculinity/femininity, male/female, and he/she in the medical and psychological literature, the term transsexualism itself is also problematical and fraught with certain normative assumptions. The term transsexualism was first used by Harry Benjamin in a lecture at a meeting of the New York Academy of Medicine in 1953. It is interesting to note, however, that the Index Medicus did not include a reference heading for transsexualism until 1965. Before this, any works dealing with surgical sex change were placed under the headings of transvestism, homosexuality, or some other deviant sexual category. But as transsexualism acquired its own terminological existence and independent classification, many normative assumptions began to gain ground.First of all, the suffix ism is a clue to how transsexualism functions. Some authors use the word transsexuality as opposed to transsexualism, with a varied spelling ofthe latter as transsexualism. But I have chosen to consistently employ the term transsexualism, because it is one of the main contentions of this work that transsexualism operates as an ideology which the suffix ism is meant to denote. Webster defines ideology in two ways, both of which can be applied to transsexualism and the ways in which it functions. The first definition Webster gives for ideology is “visionary theorizing. ” In this sense, transsexualism offers certain individuals a supposed futuristic vision of what they can become. (However, in reality, instead of giving transsexuals an open and truly visionary future, it restricts them unalterably to the present and visionless context of cultural roles and stereotypes under the guise of being ideologically visionary. ) Webster’s second definition of ideology is threefold: (a) “a systematic body of concepts especially about human life or culture, ” (b) “ a manner or the content of thinking characteristic of an individual, group, or culture, ” and (c) “the integrated assertions, theories, and aims that constitute a sociopolitical program. ” Transsexualism functions as ideology by defining a portion of human life as transsexual—using concepts such as “women trapped in men’s bodies, ” and the classic mind-body dichotomy to form“integrated assertions, theories, and aims that constitute a sociopolitical program. ” A perusal of the literature will indicate that a popular as well as specialized vocabulary has been built up. Transsexualism at this point constitutes a “sociopolitical program ” that is undercutting the movem ent to eradicate sex-role stereotyping and oppression in this culture. Instead it fosters institutional bases of sexism under the guise of therapy.Many definitions of transsexualism have been put forth, some differing from others in describing the phenomenon.Benjamin states: “transsexualism is a sex and gender problem, the transsexual being primarily concerned with his (or her) self only, a sex partner being of secondary although occasionally vital importance. ” 1 Donald Russell’s definition is among the more neutral, in that it attempts to describe and not posit causal hypotheses:The term “trans-sexual” refers to a person who is said to believe firmly, in spite o f all physical or genetic evidence to the contrary, th at he (or she) is inherently of the opposite sex. The transsexual has a fixed or apparently unalterable belief th at he is of one sex“trapped” in the body of the other. Doctors Milton Edgerton, Norman Knorr, and James Callison who comprise part of the interdisciplinary team at the Johns Hopkins Gender Identity Clinic define transsexualism in a similar manner.The term “transsexualism” has now been widely accepted in the medical literature as designating that psychiatric syndrome which is characterized by the individual’s attem pts to deny and change his (or her) biological sex and to thus achieve and permanently maintain the opposite gender identification. It should be pointed out, however, that the phrase psychiatric syndrome here does not refer to any psychotic causation theory. The authors later state: “ Is any patient who seeks castration by surgery, by definition psychotic?We do not find this to be the case. ”4 Rather the words psychiatric syndrome probably indicate that the authors do not consider transsexualism to be of biological origin.Popular definition of transsexualism reveals a more value-laden content which raises a host of questions about the reality of transsexualism. In popular terms, transsexualism has come to mean a condition of “feeling trapped in the body of the wrong sex. ” This inevitably raises the question, is it biologically possible to convert a person surgically to the opposite sex? Is it possible to change sex—that is, to transsex? In order to answer this question, it is first of all necessary to discuss various meanings of the word sex— a word that has both a dismaying multiplicity and ambiguity of meanings.The Six Sexes. John Money has distinguished various definitional levels of the word sex that are helpful in assessing whether it is biologically possible to cross-sex. 1. Chromosomal Sex. This kind of sex determines biological maleness or femaleness, contrary to popular opinionthat anatomical sex is determinative. Normal males have a chromosomal pattern of XY with normal females being XX. In rare cases, chromosomal anomalies occur and constellations such as XXY or XXYY appear. The pattern of sex chromosomes is present and unchangeable in every body cell, including blood cells. Chromosomal sex can, however, conflict with anatomical sex, especially after transsexual surgery.2. Anatomical or Morphological Sex. This kind of sex includes what are referred to as primary and secondary sex characteristics. The primary dimensions of anatomical sex are the testes in the male and the ovaries in the female.Secondary anatomical sex characters include the penis, scrotum, prostate, hair distribution, and a deeper voice in the male; and the clitoris, vulva, uterus, vagina, breasts, a wide pelvis, female voice, and hair distribution in the female. In the case of transsexualism, it is anatomical sex that is altered through hormonal and surgical procedures.3. Genital or Gonadal Sex. This kind of sex is the collective term for the testes in the male or the ovaries in the female.4. Legal Sex. Genital sex becomes the legal sex although this is not actually defined in the codes. It is in this area that errors of sex do occur and not too infrequently. By merely determining sex on the basis of genital sex, the obstetrician or midwife may be deceived. Biological anomalies, such as various hermaphroditic constellations, may escape them. Consequently the legal sex designated at birth is wrong, and complications often present themselves at a future time.5. Endocrine or Hormonal Sex. This is determined by androgen in the male and estrogen in the female. Besides the sex glands, the pituitary or adrenal glands also supply hormones essential for both sexes. Endocrine sex is also mixed to various extents. Testes, as well as male adrenals, produce certain amounts of estrogen. Likewise, various amounts of androgen can be found in the ovaries and in the adrenals of women. To a certain extent, therefore, females and males are hormonally intersexed. Conse­quently, hormonal products can be used to feminize a male or masculinize a woman. Hormonal treatments are preliminary measures used to alter the sex of a transsexual before the actual operation is undertaken.6. Psychological Sex. Much of the literature uses this terminology to designate attitudes, traits, characteristics, and behavior that are said to accompany biological maleness or femaleness. I would prefer the term psychosocial sex to indicate the all-important factor that such attitudes, traits, characteristics, and behavior are socially influenced.Robert Stoller uses the term gender to distinguish this kind of sex from biological sex. He differentiates between sex and gender in the following way:Dictionaries stress th at the major connotation o f sex is a biological one, as for example, in the phrases sexual relations or the male sex.In agreement with this, the word sex, in this work will refer to the male or female sex and the component biological parts th at determine whether one is male or female; the word sexual will have connotations o f anatom y and physiology. This obviously leaves trem endous areas o f behavior, feelings, thoughts, and fantasies th at are related to the sexes and yet do not have primarily biological connotations. It is for some o f these psychological phenomena th at the term gender will be used: one can speak of the male sex or the female sex, but one can also talk about masculinity and femininity and not necessarily be implying anything about anatom y or physiology. Thus while sex and gender seem to common sense to be practically synonymous, and in everyday life to be inextricably bound together, one purpose o f this study will be to confirm the fact th at the two realms (sex and gender) are not at all inevitably bound in anything like a one-to-one relationship, but each may go in its quite independent way. The most striking example of sex and gender going in opposite directions is the transsexual. Transsexuals reject the gender that the culture has assigned to them and gravitate toward the gender assigned to the opposite sex. The transsexual literature stresses how confirmed the transsexual is in the gender identity of the opposite sex. “ In the true transsexual there is no question of, or ambivalence about the gender preference, for the identification has been com­pleted for some time at the point when they appear before the physician requesting sex reassignment. ” John Money and Anke Ehrhardt in Man & Woman, Boy& Girl, make a further distinction between gender identity and gender role.Gender Identity: The sameness, unity, and persistence of one’s individuality as male, female, or ambivalent, in greater or lesser degree, especially as it is experienced in self-awareness and behavior; gender identity is the private experience of gender role, and gender role is the public expression of gender identity.Gender Role: Everything that a person says and does, to indicate to others or to the self the degree that one is either male, or female, or ambivalent; it includes but is not restricted to sexual arousal and response; gender role is the public expression of gender identity , and gender identity is the private experience o f gender role. Thus they would distinguish between the psychological and sociocultural, or between private and public manifestations of gender.The word gender has certain problems for the feminist critic. It gives the impression that there is a fixed set of psychosocial conditions that determines gender identity and role. When used in conjunction with other words such as gender dissatisfaction, gender discomfort, or gender dysphoria, it conveys that these can only be altered by very specialized therapy and/or sophisticated technical means.Feminists have described gender dissatisfaction in very different terms—i. e., as sex-role oppression, sexism, etc. It is significant that there is no specialized or therapeutic vocabulary of black dissatisfaction, black discomfort, or black dysphoria that has been institutionalized in black identity clinics. Likewise, it would be rather difficult and somewhat humorous to talk about sex-role oppression clinics. What the word gender ultimately achieves is a classification of sex-role oppression as a therapeutic problem, amenable to therapeutic solutions. Therefore, I prefer to use the word gender and the phrase, gender dysphoria and the like, when I am discussing the management of the transsexual issue in the therapeutic and/or technicalcontexts. However, because of the nature of the subject of transsexualism, there were times, while writing this book, when I found the word unavoidable despite my“dissatisfaction. ” In these places, I indeed used it with reservation.What does this delineation of the various kinds of sex say about the reality of transsexualism? The most significant fact is that it is biologically impossible to change chromosomal sex. If chromosomal sex is taken to be the fundamental basis for maleness and femaleness, the male who undergoes sex conversion surgery is not female.Anatomically, transsexualism does take place, but anatomical changes also happen in what is commonly termed plastic surgery. Transsexualism most intrinsically affects genital or gonadal sex. For example, it is possible surgically to remove a woman’s ovaries, and it is also possible to construct an artificial vagina in a man whose penis and testes have been removed. The question then becomes how much value we would give to this kind of alteration in terms of changing the totality of a person’s sex. Georges Burou, a Casablancan physician who has operated on over 700 American men, expressed the superficiality of sex-conversion surgery in these words: “ I don’t change men into women. I transform male genitals into genitals that have a female aspect. All the rest is in the patient’s mind. ”9 Moreover, the change in genital sex does not make reproduction possible. Maybe with the development of various forms of reproductive technology, this will be feasible in the future, but as yet, a change in genital sex is not accompanied by reproductive capacity.Endocrine or hormonal sex is the most susceptible to alteration. Change here, for the transsexual, occurs without any surgical intervention. Hormonal treatment for men and women is the threshold of the transsexual odyssey.These treatments have certain anatomical effects resulting, for example, in breast development for men or a redistribution of body hair for both women and men. But this reality requires constant hormonal treatments.In law, transsexualism can occur. It is legally possible tochange sex. However, the whole area of legal sex has been one of contention for the transsexual who wishes to have sex-conversion surgery validated. The postoperative transsexual has often faced long and costly legal battles concerning amendation of birth certificates, social security numbers, drivers’ licenses, and the like. There are a few states that have promptly issued new birth certificates with the name and sex changed accordingly. In other states, a more complicated procedure, namely a court order, is required before official documents can be altered.If it is impossible to change basic chromosomal structure, then it is necessary to take a more in-depth look at not only the terminology but also the reality of transsexualism. Can we call a person transsexed, biologically speaking, whose anatomical structure and hormonal balance have changed but who is still genetically XY or XX? If we don’t recognize chromosomal sex as determinative, plus the subsequent history that attends being chromosomal female or male, what are we really talking about when we say female or male? Is there any such enduring reality as biological maleness or femaleness?Words and More Words. Furthermore, what does the word transsexualism say to us? We use this word to speak of both pre- and postoperative individuals, but does it make sense to call a person transsexual if that person has not been anatomically altered in a surgical way? In applying the word transsexual to both pre- and postoperative persons, credence is given to the fact that the mere desire to change sex by surgical means determines transsexual status.The transsexual experts, themselves, have been uncomfortable with the term transsexualism, although not for the reason I mentioned previously. Within the past few years, many have started to replace it with the term gender dysphoria. In 1975, for example, the Second International Conference on Transsexualism was renamed the Second International Conference of Gender Dysphoria.John Money and Paul Walker, in a review of the proceedings, point out that the new symposium title representeda major concern of the participants regarding nomenclature. Jon Meyer and John Hoopes state: It must be recognized th at the term “transsexual” is not an adequate label. It does not represent the clinical variance to be found among applicants for reassignment or allow for adequate description and classification of the differences. The authors go on the explain that the term dysphoria emphasizes the person’s difficulty in establishing an adequate gender identification, and the pain and conflict surrounding masculinity and femininity. It encompasses, but is not restricted to, persons who request sex-conversion surgery.Finally they propose abandoning the terms transsexual and transsexualism, except to describe the postoperative person. I have chosen to retain the term transsexualism, however, because: (1) most of the professionals and lay populace still call it that; (2) gender dysphoria obscures many of the social and ethical issues that I wish to point to in this work and, in my opinion, really does not name the intent of the medical empire that generates and perpetuates the problem; (3) while the term gender dysphoria may resolve some of the preceding definitional problems that I have raised, such as the designation of the preoperative transsexual, it restricts the reality behind “ gender dysphoria”—i. e., sex-role oppression—to those who seek sex reassignment. To make it the private property, so to speak, of the transsexual empire and its professionals is to superficialize the depths of the questions that lie behind“gender dysphoria. ” Therefore, I have chosen to retain the term transsexual to describe persons who believe that they are of the opposite sex, who desire the body and role of the opposite sex through medical intervention, who put themselves into the hands of the transsexual experts, who have started hormone therapy, and who have accepted the classification of transsexual.As an abstract noun the word transsexualism effectively obscures the question of who is transsexing whom. In deleting both agent and object, the word transsexualism alsobecomes a state of being. It is granted the status of “statehood” by its very terminological existence, perpetuating the ideology that if such a state of being actually does exist, there is a certain group of people who really need this surgery. Until, of course, the surgery was popularized, post-Christine Jorgensen, the specific need of surgery was not evident, although some people may have felt that they wanted to change sex. To what extent the availability of the surgery has generated a wider need for it is again masked by the terminology.In deleting the agent, the word transsexualism cloaks the power of the medical empire to generate a unique group of medical consumers. Thus the actions of a primary agent, the medical establishment, are rendered invisible, and the so-called need of the transsexual, the patient, is highlighted. Put succinctly, the terminology of transsexualism disguises the reality that someone transsexes someone, that transsexuals “prove” they are transsexuals by conforming to the canons of a medical-psychiatric institution that evaluates them on the basis of their being able to pass as stereotypically masculine or feminine, and that ultimately grants surgery on this basis.Furthermore, by placing all the disordered experiences of the gender-dissatisfied individual under the heading of transsexualism and giving it the force of statehood, the transsexual therapists and technicians are able to order and control that reality. All of this is accomplished by the inherent power of a classification system that has been given medical and psychological credibility. Once sex-role oppression is given the name of transsexualism, and institutionalized in the gender identity clinics, and realized by hormone and surgical treatment, the “ condition” of transsexualism itself explains why one would have the wrong mind in the wrong body. Why? Because one is a transsexual. This classification bestows sense on all the disparate and atomic experiences that once seemed so unfathomable. It functions to mask ethical issues and normative statements that raise themselves very pointedly in the case of transsexualism.Two further notes about my own use of language. First, in places where syntactical structure made it awkward to use the pronoun they when referrring to transsexuals, I have chosen to emphasize the pronoun he. I do not intend this usage in the commonly accepted, pseudogeneric sense. Rather the use of he is intended to reinforce the fact that the majority of transsexuals are men (see Chapter 1). Transsexualism is originated, supported, institutionalized, and perpetuated primarily by males and it directly affects mostly men. Second, I use the words patriarchal society to define my view of the social context in which the problem of transsexualism arises. Although in many places I have used more general terms such as a role-defined society, or a gender-defined society, there are other places where I felt it necessary to avoid the obscure and passive connotations of these more general words, especially as they have been developed in the idiom of the social sciences. These disciplines attribute the conditions of a sexist society to amorphous “roles” and“ forces” that are unspecified. Nobody is blamed and everyone is blamed. Such words delete the agents of these “roles” and “forces”—that is, the society and institutions men have created.Such words also lend credence to the idea that the problem of transsexualism and other “role-controlled”problems are so awesomely complex and due to such vague “forces” that even the best intentions and strategies won’t be able to comprehend, never mind solve, them.This has the effect of taking the immediate focus and pressure off men and male-defined institutions. Additionally, they say that “role-defined forces” are all that must be coped with and not the agents who initiate and preserve those forces, and the institutions that reify them.Thus it is that language generates reality. As Peter Berger has noted: “ Reality hangs by the thin thread of conversation. ” But the reality that language generates is perpetuated and upheld by the persons and institutions who use that language. Thus we turn to the persons and institutions involved in the transsexual realm.A TOUCH OF EMPIRICISMI have used several kinds of empirical research. I talked with transsexuals themselves, with doctors and psychologists who are involved in transsexual treatment and therapy, with directors of gender identity clinics, and with other individuals, such as clergy, who interact with transsexuals. I also visited certain gender identity clinics and hospitals, where transsexual surgery is performed, and an institution that funded transsexual research.Writers on moral issues frequently do little or no in-the-field research. They understand their discipline as a “library science, ” or they limit their empirical research to institutions that “treat” the problem, rather than also including those persons and individuals who are most immediately affected. (Daniel Callahan, for example, did a comprehensive medical, legal, and ethical analysis of abortion, yet nowhere in his study does he indicate that he spoke extensively with women who were in the process of choosing or had chosen abortions. )12 It has been my experience that talking with transsexuals themselves, as well as with individuals involved in the study and treatment of transsexualism, especially in their occupational milieu, made a vast difference in what I came to know about transsexualism.I spoke with fifteen transsexuals, thirteen of whom were male-to-constructed-females. (This total is numerically comparable to numbers of transsexuals who were interviewed in many other studies. ) I used what sociologists would call the “unstructured research interview” employing open-ended questions. 13 This approach maximizes discovery and description. I chose this method also because I make no pretense of doing a “hard-core, ” systematic, sociological study of transsexuals. (My own interview data serves as back-up to other more formal studies. ) Besides transsexuals themselves, I interviewed many of the active figures in the field of transsexual research and therapy. At Johns Hopkins, I talked extensively with John Money, Paul Walker, and Eleanor Bagby. I also spoke withseveral persons involved in gender identity clinics. I talked extensively with Zelda Suplee, director of the Erickson Educational Foundation, which has funded much transsexual research and activity. Finally, I interviewed several doctors and counselors who are active in the area of transsexual treatment and counseling on a private basis. All this helped form my belief that the issue of transsexualism is basically one of social ontology—that is, an issue of what society allows and encourages its constituency to be.THE ONTOLOGICAL ARGUMENTMy main conclusion is that transsexualism is basically a social problem whose cause cannot be explained except in relation to the sex roles and identities that a patriarchal society generates. Through hormonal and surgical means, transsexuals reject their “native” bodies, especially their sexual organs, in favor of the body and the sexual organs of the opposite sex. They do this mainly because the body and the genitalia, especially, come to incarnate the essence of their rejected masculinity and desired femininity. Thus transsexualism is the result of socially prescribed definitions of masculinity and femininity, one of which the transsexual rejects in order to gravitate toward the other.Thus I will argue, in Chapter III, that the First Cause of transsexualism is a gender-defined society whose norms of masculinity and femininity generate the desire to be trans-sexed. Many will ask how an obviously “ personal” problem, such as transsexualism, can be primarily attributed to a social cause. Some will probably say that society cannot be a cause and that as psychological advocates reduce transsexualism to personal causes, I am doing the reverse-blaming society. I believe that the primary cause of transsexualism cannot be derived from intrapsychic attitudes and/or behaviors, or even from family conditioning processes. One must begin with the roles of a gender-defined society, as the First Cause of transsexualism (that which, in the Aristotelian sense, sets all other causes in motion)to gain insight into its psychological manifestations. Only through a societal starting point can we gain insight into the real subjective meaning of the problem.Transsexualism relates to what society allows and encourages its constituency to be. Behind the transsexual quest for the body and the sex role and identity of the opposite sex is the quest for deeper selfhood. I would ultimately call this the quest for transcendence or the quest for be-ing. However, be-ing cannot be separated from the social context (as has been the case with much traditional ontology), and for this reason, it is perhaps imperative that I explain further just what I mean by ontology.The ontological tradition has been rejected by many philosophers and theologians because of its static dimensions. Developed within a society that was encompassed by a static world view, it is seen as offering little or no basis for change. Yet the split between being and becoming is not a necessary one, as Mary Daly has demonstrated. Be-ing is the initial power of everything, the beginning“ structure, ” if you will, of reality, not as unchanging but as process. I have therefore chosen to talk about transsexualism as most deeply a question of be-ing, which cannot be separated from the social context that generated the problem to begin with. In discussing integrity in Chapter VI, I attem pt to demonstrate that what is needed is an ethic of total integrity grounded in be-ing. In this way one can clarify the genuine personal-social issues involved in transsexualism.The words ontological and natural are very often used as synonyms. But my own ontological method is not a new natural-law approach. I am not arguing that what is natural is good, I am not polarizing technology against nature. Rather I am making an appeal to the integrity or harmony of the whole. Thus my development of an ethic of integrity in Chapter VI is not meant to state that transsexual treatment and surgery are violations of a static biological nature of maleness or femaleness but that they violate a dynamic process of be-ing and becoming that in-cludes the integrity of the body, the total person, and the society. The chromosomal base of maleness or femaleness is one defining factor of bodily integrity. Chromosomes contribute to bodily integrity, and one clue to their importance is the fact that transsexuals must continually suppress their anatomical and morphological consequences by estrogen or androgen therapy. Yet my appeal here is not that chromosomal maleness or femaleness is natural.Rather, I am emphasizing that medicalized intervention produces harmful effects in the transsexual’s body that negate bodily integrity, wholeness, and be-ing.Furthermore, chromosomes are only one defining factor, in the context of the total history of what it means to be a woman or a man, in a society that treats women and men differently on the basis of biological sex. This means that the integrity of the body must also be placed in the context of the integrity of the total person, which includes the realization of such values as choice, awareness, and autonomy. Finally, if the transsexual answer reinforces the foundation of sex-role oppression, which is sex-role stereotyping, by encouraging the transsexual to conform to these stereotypes, then it is also violating the integrity of the society.Transsexualism is a half-truth that highlights the desperate situation of those individuals in our society who have been uniquely body-bound by gender constrictions, but it is not a whole truth. While transsexualism poses the question of so-called gender agony, it fails to give an answer. I hope to show that it amounts to a solution that only reinforces the society and social norms that produced transsexualism to begin with.C H A P T E R I“EverythingYou AlwaysWanted to Knowabout Transsexualism”T h e r e are many questionsthat people often ask about transsexualism. When was the first transsexual operation performed? Where was it done?How did transsexualism first gain public recognition? What is the cost of the surgery? How, medically speaking, is a person transsexed? What are the legal ramifications of sex conversion surgery? Is it possible to change birth certificates, drivers’ licenses, and the like? Has transsexualism been a phenomenon throughout history?Transsexual operations have been surgically possible since the early 1930s. The hormonal and surgical techniques, however, were not refined and made public until the early 1950s. Since then, thousands of transsexual operations have been performed both here and abroad.Largely due to the support of individuals such as Harry Benjamin, M. D., and institutions such as the Erickson Educational Foundation and Johns Hopkins, transsexual treatment and surgery has become a legitimate medical area of research and activity. The medical specialties that it calls forth, or more correctly that call it forth, are varied and complex, beginning with hormone therapy and often ending in numerous operative procedures. Just as complicated are the legal intricacies of changing sex on birth certificates, licenses, and other certificates of personhood required to live one’s life. Other legal issues also affect the institutions performing the surgery.As a medical category that enlists many surgical specialties and as a transformed state of being that requires legal validation transsexualism is a relatively new phenomenon.Historical antecedents are found in certain mythological accounts, initiation rites, and certain modes of eunuchism and castration but, strictly speaking, transsexualism has no historical precedents.RECENT HISTORYThe word transsexualism did not become part of the English language until the early 1950’s. It was invented as a medical term by Dr. D. O. Cauldwell, who used it to classify a girl whom he described as obsessively wanting to be a boy. He called her condition psychopathia trans-sexualis. 1 Several years later, in 1953, Harry Benjamin used the English word transsexualism in a lecture before the New York Academy of Medicine. Before 1967, the Index Medicus did not list it as a subject heading. Prior to this, it was subsumed under such categories as transvestism and sex deviation. However, before the publication of the famed Christine Jorgensen case in 1953, most people had never heard of the word nor of the state of being that the word signified.Christine, formerly George, Jorgensen was transsexed in Denmark in 1952 by a team of Danish physicians headed by Christian Hamburger. Their findings were published a year after the operation in the Journal o f the American Medical Association, with the consent of Jorgensen. In 1967 Jorgensen wrote about “her” own experiences in“her” autobiography. 2 However, the first book to relate a probable case of transsexualism in a popular-scientific style and content was Niels Hoyer’s Man Into Woman (1933). The fact that the introduction to this book was written by a well-known British sexologist, Norma Haire, gave Hoyer’s book a certain scientific credibility. The book is the story of a male Danish painter who became Lili Elbe after several rather obscure operations. Although Christian Hamburger has been credited with bringing together many of the surgical specialties for the treatment of the transsexual, he was not the first physician to perform transsexual surgery. This title belongs to a German, F. Z. Abraham, who, in 1931, reported the first case of sex-conversion surgery. 4 In the years between and 1952 sporadic and piecemeal reports of transsexual operations came forth, primarily from Germany and Switzerland. Hamburger, however, seems to have been the first to make use of hormonal castration and to follow up on his patients.At the time Jorgensen was transsexed, there were few places where one could go to obtain such surgery. Casablanca, Istanbul, and countries such as Denmark, Germany, and Switzerland, were the most frequent locations to which transsexuals travelled, provided they could pay the cost and were willing to risk little or no medical follow-up. Today, however, the situation, at least in the United States, is quite different.In the late 1950s, Dr. Harry Benjamin of New York, funded by grants from the Erickson Educational Foundation, began treating transsexuals and publicizing his research, hoping for professional and public understanding of what he entitled The Transsexual Phenomenon. 5 Benjamin is the key American figure who aroused the interest of medical and psychological professionals especially, in the problems of the transsexual. With the founding of the Harry Benjamin Foundation in 1964, he brought together a group of professionals from many specialties to do systematic research on transsexualism.This research took the form of batteries of tests, studiesof transsexuals’ sexual attitudes, and pre- and postoperative evaluations.A major expansion of transsexual research and activity took place in 1967 with the formal opening of the Johns Hopkins Gender Identity Clinic in Baltimore, Maryland.The fact that a major medical institution, with the prestige of Johns Hopkins, had initiated a clinic of this nature catapulted transsexualism into the public and professional eye as a legitimate medical problem. It was not until Johns Hopkins began performing the surgery and had initiated its Gender Identity Center that sex conversion operations gained acceptance and were begun in other respected medical institutions. When Benjamin began his work in this country, there was no reputable hospital in America that would have permitted transsexual surgery. Now, post-Johns Hopkins, there are estimated to be at least thirty such hospitals; among them, university hospitals at Minnesota, Stanford, Northwestern, Arkansas, Michigan, Kentucky, and Virginia.The Johns Hopkins Clinic has served as a model for others of the same nature. It consists of a team of psychiatrists, psychologists, plastic surgeons, gynecologists, urologists, and endocrinologists. It works in close concert with certain legal and religious professionals who are called in to offer relevant advice. The team has also devised methods of evaluating preoperative transsexuals to judge their candidacy for surgery and operates selectively on those individuals who meet the criteria. It continues to review criteria, mainly to determine whether surgery is warranted in all claims of transsexualism. It also continues to refine its methods of surgical treatment, and attempts to do systematic postoperative follow-ups. Various team members, individually and in concert, have published many articles about their work and are regarded as being in the forefront of transsexual research. Of all persons who have been engaged in this work at Johns Hopkins John Money, now Professor of Medical Psychology and Pediatrics at the Johns Hopkins Hospital, has been the foremost publicist of the transsexual phenomenon.Since 1967, many so-called gender identity clinics for transsexuals have been established in various parts of the country. Some are directly associated with university hospitals where surgery is done, while others, separated physically from any hospital base, counsel transsexuals, start hormone treatments, and eventually make selective referrals of candidates to medical personnel who then proceed with the surgery. Although reports conflict as to how many transsexual operations have actually been performed in this country and how many persons seek the surgery, figures published in Newsweek magazine on November 22, 1976, indicated that there are about 3, 000 transsexuals in the U. S. who have undergone surgery and 10, 000 more who view themselves as members of the opposite sex. Because more Americans want surgery than are accepted by those hospitals performing it, many transsexuals have probably continued to seek such surgery abroad. In the spring of 1973, the Erickson Foundation Newsletter reported that only 10 percent of those individuals who go through evaluation for surgery eventually achieve it.It is very difficult to obtain exact professional statistics concerning the number of preoperative and/or postoperative transsexuals. Various figures are given, at times, but they often conflict. Zelda Suplee, former director of the Erickson Educational Foundation and present head of the Janus Information Facility at the University of Texas Medical Branch in Galveston, has attested to this lack of vital statistics on transsexualism. 6 Money and Walker also confirmed this lack of statistics in a recent book review in which they state: “ In the absence of any national directory of sex-reassignment applicants, data on patients for surgery are inconclusive. ” 7 Thus the nature and incidence of transsexual activity is not clear. This lack of data is very significant in light of the fact that other major surgery statistics seem readily available.With respect to the cost, the various procedures and surgery involved differ from hospital to hospital. On the average, the male-to-constructed-female operation and hospital stay alone can cost from $3, 000 to $6, 000. Thefemale-to-constructed-male operation involves a series of several operations before the results are achieved and costs up to $12, 000. There are, of course, many other expenses besides the surgery and hospital bills. For male transsexuals, electrolysis to remove a heavy beard or stubble can cost as much as the surgery.Although many medical insurance policies do not cover the cost of surgery on the grounds that such surgery is cosmetic, many others consider it a “reconstructive” and“ therapeutic” measure and will pay for it. In some states, Blue Cross and Blue Shield will finance the surgery. In other areas, for example New York City, courts have ruled that transsexual operations are to be included in medical assistance provided by the city and state for persons on welfare. In New Jersey, Medicaid payments have been authorized in some cases. 8 Since federal funds that had been allocated for abortions have recently been withdrawn, feminists are struck by the inequity of this situation. To paraphrase Jimmy Carter, life has been “fair”to transsexuals.A MALE PROBLEMWhile it is clear that more men than women request and obtain sex-conversion surgery, various ratios have been cited by researchers. The lowest ratio of women to men (one to eight) was reported by Benjamin in 1966. This was based on his own clinical experience with 152 cases of male transsexualism and twenty cases of female transsexualism.The highest ratio (one to tw o) was reported by John Ran-dell in 1959. Most reports fall in between these two. According to international medical literature the generally accepted ratio is one to three or one to four. 9 Recently, it has been claimed that the incidence of female-to-constructed-male transsexualism is rising. Canon Clinton Jones of the Hartford Gender Identity Clinic and Dr. John Money of Johns Hopkins both mentioned this increase to me in personal interviews with them. 10 Both said thatthey had seen, during the early seventies, almost as many women as men seeking surgery. However, the number of operations performed on men is still substantially higher.It is significant that this supposed increase has not been verified in print with the exception of a somewhat vague reference made by Dr. Anke Ehrhardt in a commentary on the article, “Transsexualism and Surgical Procedures, ”in which she states: “More and more females appear in doctors’ offices and seek hormone and surgical treatm ent. ” 11 What actual number “more and more” specifically refers to is, of course, anyone’s guess. Zelda Suplee stated that from her personal contact with would-be transsexuals the preponderance is still male-to-constructed-female.In my own interview sampling, I talked with only two female-to-constructed-male transsexuals. Often, when I was given a female-to-constructed-male contact, I had great difficulty finding the person. It is reasonable to speculate that the extreme difficulty I had in finding female-to-constructed-male transsexuals, plus the scant mention of them in the literature, may be indicative of the fact that there are fewer of them than are claimed.Christian Hamburger gives the more commonly claimed ratio of one to three. He cites the letters he received and continues to receive in the aftermath of the famed Christine Jorgensen case. Hamburger believes that the reason for this one to three ratio “may be biological in nature, ”whatever this may mean. He also stated that a “ contributing factor may also be that the case we reported involved a change from man into woman. ” 12 John Money, however, has suggested that the preponderance of male transsexuals reflects the fact that men are more vulnerable to “psycho-sexual disorders” than are women. A similar view held that: It may be th at transsexualism, like other forms of sexual variations, is actually more frequent in the male than in the female and thus is in keeping with Kinsey’s hypothesis that the male is more prone to conditioning by psychological stimuli in the sexual and gender sphere than is the female. There are many reasons male-to-constructed-female transsexualism is more predominant. Most obviously, the surgery is easier, less costly, and more developed and publicized. Second, but perhaps less obvious, is the fact that men have been much freer to experiment than women.Thus even in the area of transsexual treatment and surgery, it seems that men who desire to become female and to live out the gender role that is culturally prescribed for women are actually, in their assertiveness of seeking out and enduring the surgery, conforming much more to the masculine stereotype. Women, through a cultural conditioning that has generated less impulse to experiment, are likely to be much more reticent.Third, male transsexualism may well be a graphic expression of the destruction that sex-role molding has wrought on men. Thus it could be perceived as one of the few outlets for men in a rigidly gender-defined society to opt out of their culturally prescribed roles. Women, on the other hand, since the recent rise of feminism, have been able to confront sex-role oppression on a sociopolitical, as well as personal, level. Thus women have realized that both masculine and feminine identities and roles are traps.Fourth, transsexual surgery is a creation of men, initially developed for men. The research and literature is overwhelmingly oriented to the male-to-constructed-female transsexual and also overwhelmingly authored by men. I do not mean to say that women are not writing in the transsexual literature, are not working in the gender identity clinics, are not counseling transsexuals, or are not becoming transsexuals. It must be acknowledged that women are present in token proportions in all of these various areas. Many even happen to be in the foreground, directing gender identity clinics and co-authoring writings on the topic. However, I would suggest that those women who are engaged in transsexual legitimation, writing, and counseling are functioning as tokens who promote the illusion of comprehensive female inclusion. In this respect, they are like the well-publicized women who arealways present in some way to validate male-defined realities. Women who write in support of transsexualism are usually co-authors (Anke Ehrhardt, Patricia Tucker), and female counselors of transsexuals are women who, for the most part, “assist” in the gender identity clinics. Thus the androcentric origin, control, maintenance, and legitimation of transsexualism becomes obscured. The fact that the overwhelming research interest, number of publications and medical state of the “ art” are concerned with male-to-constructed-female transsexualism is also evidence of the male-centered nature of the transsexual phenomenon.The female-to-constructed-male transsexual is the token that saves face for the male “transsexual empire. ” She is the buffer zone who can be used to promote the univer-salist argument that transsexualism is a supposed “human”problem, not uniquely restricted to men. She is the living“ proof” that some women supposedly want the same thing. However, “proof” wanes when it is observed that women were not the original nor are they the present agents of the process. Nor are the stereotypes of masculinity that a female-to-constructed-male transsexual incarnates products of a female-directed culture. Rather women have been assimilated into the transsexual world, as women are assimilated into other male-defined worlds, institutions, and roles, that is, on men’s terms, and thus as tokens. As Judith Long Laws has written: “Tokenism may be analyzed as an institution, a form of patterned activity generated by a social system as a means of adaptation to a particular kind of pressure. ” 14 I would maintain that, under the pressure of having to demonstrate that transsexualism is really not limited to men, the medical empire assimilates female-to-constructed-male transsexuals, but always on its own terms. “The Token is a member of an underrepresented group, who is operating on the turf of the dominant group, under license from it. ” 15 In tokenism, the flow of outsiders into the dominant group is usually restricted numerically but just enough so that the illusion of inclusion takes place. This is exactly whathappens with transsexuals. The accepted four to one ratio of male-to-constructed-females seeking and achieving transsexual status is enough to register the appearance of sufficient inclusion of women. Further, the token female presence in all aspects of the transsexual world is enough for the transsexual experts to claim that transsexualism is sex-blind.Yet it is most important to note here that tokenism, as Mary Daly has pointed out, is not merely a matter of numerical restriction. 16 For example, the United States Senate could be composed of 50 percent women, and these women senators would still be tokens if their consciousness and legislation were still controlled by a patriarchal ethos, if they did not initiate and legitimate activities, and if they did not have a controlling power. Thus if the included group is not the controller of its own ethos and the initiator or legitimator of action, no matter how numerically present it may be, it is still a token group. Six million Jews could go to their death in the Nazi camps, not because there were too few of them but because they were not in control and thus their numbers were impotent. In the same way, the percentage of female-to-constructed-male transsexuals could be numerically increased to the extent where they would equal men, yet if they were still being transsexed by a “transsexual empire” whose social and body stereotypes were conceived by men, they would still be tokens.Part of the syndrome of tokenism is to make women seem important. John Money, whose work will be discussed in Chapter II, is very careful to co-author his articles and books with a woman. It is an irony that women are getting authorship credit in the area of transsexualism when they have gotten so little credit in other fields for what work they really have initiated. A fifth reason why more men want to be women, than women men, can be hazarded from other feminist analyses of biomedical issues. Simply put, it is that men recognize the power that women have by virtue of female biology and the fact that this power, symbolized in giving birth,is not only procreative but multidimensionally creative.Various observers have called this recognition by various names. Karen Homey reversed Freud’s theory of penis envy calling it womb envy. 18 Ralph Greenson, in an address to a clinical meeting of the A. M. A., gave this interesting analysis: It is horrifying—a danger to the future of the human ra c e .. . . Our only hope is th at basic instincts will eventually win out, th at a true equality of the sexes will emerge. Always before people thought it was the woman who envied the man. But we have found that more than two-thirds of those who wanted to change their gender were males. What is shocking is th at this is more widespread than was believed. These people are not psychotic; they are not crack-pots.. . .Men have contem pt for women only on the surface. Underneath is a repressed envy, and repressed envy arouses fe a r.. . . One reason the male envies the woman so much is that she is always sure of herself as a woman. A man is never quite sure he is a man—he has to prove it over and over again. Barbara Seaman and others have called this kind of envy and desire “male mothering. ”20 Barbara Ehrenreich and Dierdre English in their ground-breaking works on the history of medicine in the West discuss the same phenomenon on a more political level when they talk about the male takeover of women’s healing functions, especially during the medieval and Reformation periods (the obliteration of the witch-midwife) and the modem period (the consolidation of orthodox medicine, particularly in this country). Transsexualism can be viewed as one more androcentric interventionist procedure. Along with male-controlled cloning, test-tube fertilization, and sex selection technology, it tends to wrest from women those powers inherent in female biology. In a very real sense, the male-to-constructed-female transsexual not only wants female biological capacities but wants to become the biological female.Finally, and I think most important, there are more male-to-constructed-female transsexuals because men are socialized to fetishize and objectify. The same socialization that enables men to objectify women in rape, pornography, and “ drag” enables them to objectify their own bodies.In the case of the male transsexual, the penis is seen as a “thing” to be gotten rid of. Female body parts, specifically the female genitalia, are “things” to be acquired. Men have always fetishized women’s genitals. Breasts, legs, buttocks are all parts of a cultural fixation that reduces women not even to a whole objectified nude body but rather to fetishized parts of the female torso. The Venus de Milo symbolizes this as well as the fact that it has never been restored to its original integrity. “Cunt, ” “ass, ” “ getting one’s rocks off, ” “balling, ” are all sexist slogans of this fetishized worldview where even “chicks” and “broads” are reduced to the barest essentials. Male-to-constructed-female transsexualism is only one more relatively recent variation on this theme where the female genitalia are completely separated from the biological woman and, through surgery, come to be dominated by incorporation into the biological man. Transsexualism is thus the ultimate, and we might even say the logical, conclusion of male possession of women in a patriarchal society. Literally, men here possess women.Definitions of fetishism are revealing in this context.Webster’s Dictionary defines fetish in several ways: First, as an object believed among a primitive people to have magical power to protect or aid its owner; broadly: a material object regarded with superstitious or extravagant trust or reverence; an object of irrational reverence or obsessive devotion; an object or bodily part whose real or fantasied presence is psychologically necessary for sexual gratification and that is an object of fixation to the extent that it may interfere with complete sexual expression. Second, as a rite or cult of fetish worshipers. Third, fetish is simply defined as fixation.From these definitions, it is clear that the process of fetishization has two sides: objectification, and what might be referred to as worship in the widest sense. Objectification is largely accomplished by a process of fragmentation.The fetish is the fragmented part taken away from the whole, or better, the fetish is seen to contain the whole.It represents an attem pt to grasp the whole. For example,breasts and legs in our society are fetish objects containing the essence of femaleness. Thus the fetish contains and by containing controls.However, the other side of fetishization is worship or reverence for the fetish object. In primitive religions, fetish objects were worshiped because people were afraid of the power they were seen to contain. Therefore primitive peoples sought to control the power of the fetish by worshiping it and in so doing they confined it to its “rightful place. ” There was a recognition of a power that people felt they lacked and a constant quest in ceremonies and cults to invest themselves with the power of the fetish object. Thus to worship was also to control. In this way, objectification and worship are two sides of the same coin.In this sense transsexualism is fetishization par excellence—a twisted recognition on the part of some men of the creative capacities of the female spirit as symbolized and incarnated in the usurped female biology. This usurpation of female biology, of course, is limited to the artifacts of female biology (silicone breast implants, exogenous estrogen therapy, artificial vaginas, etc. ) that modem medicine has surgically and hormonally created. Thus transsexual fetishization is further limited not even to the real parts of the real whole, but to the artifactual parts of the artifactual whole.In summary, then, since men have been socialized to fetishize women, it is not surprising that this fetishization process is one more explanation of why there are more male-to-constructed-female transsexuals. What could be perceived as an initial protest against sex-role stereotyping (i. e., the transsexual’s initial gender discomfort and gender rebellion) becomes short-circuited.THE MEDICALIZED “ FEMALE”The medical procedures involved in transsexualism sure puzzling to laypersons; most cannot begin to imagine what is physically involved in changing sex or how the change is accomplished.The medical odyssey of the transsexual is a long one, often beginning years before surgery is completed. For men it usually starts with the administration of the female hormones estrogen and progesterone. This is referred to as “hormonal castration. ” Hormonal treatment has two effects: it suppresses the existing physiological sex characteristics; and it develops and maintains the opposite anatomical sex characteristics. 22 Benjamin explains: The feminization o f the male patient can be accomplished by female hormones, both estrogen and progesterone, which develop the breasts, soften the skin, reduce body hair, diminish erections and decrease libidinous conflict by suppressing testicular androgen production. In addition, the gonads are inhibited, the testes atrophy, the distribution of subcutaneous fat is changed in a female direction, and muscular strength diminishes. Very often, however, beard growth diminishes only slightly, and other areas of male hair growth also remain generally unchanged.For this reason, many transsexuals resort to electrolysis.As far as voice is concerned, there is little change. 24 (Many transsexuals seek out speech therapy. ) Hormones are administered in various ways. For men, the estrogens of 17B-estradiol and estrone can be given orally. Estradiol monobenzoate, another estrogen, can be injected intramuscularly twice a week. Numerous artificial compounds with estrogenic activity have also been synthesized for oral administration, besides the steroids.DES (diethylstilbesterol), for example, has been widely used. Estrogenic hormones can also be applied as ointments or alcoholic solutions and absorbed through the skin. Estradiol, in combination with progesterone, has also been administered in the form of rectal suppositories. The treatment of male transsexual candidates is almost totally dependent on estrogen to induce hormonal castration and feminization. Such treatment is long-term—in many cases, lifelong.The next step is the surgery itself, which requires the combined techniques of the urologist, gynecologist, andthe plastic surgeon. The total procedure takes place in four steps, although all of them may or may not be desired by a particular patient. The four steps are penectomy, castration, plastic reconstruction, and formation of an artificial vagina (vaginoplasty). Some transsexuals have only the first and second steps performed, and indeed, some writers recommend this approach. The vagina is constructed by creating a cavity between the prostate and the rectum. An artificial vagina is formed from a skin graft from the thigh and lined with penile and/or scrotal skin. 26 Thus orgasmic sensation is possible.The shape of the artificial vagina is maintained by a mold that is worn continuously for several weeks following surgery. Once healing has occurred, manual dilation or penile insertion two or three times weekly is necessary to prevent narrowing, which can result through the contraction of scar tissue. The next, most common, procedure is enlarging the breasts, usually with inserted implants. This is often followed up with increased estrogen therapy. However two cases of breast cancer that occurred about five years after such treatment have been reported. 28 The author suggests that the malignancy was entirely due to the hormonal imbalance created by excessive estrogen therapy and orchi-dectomy (removal of one or both testes). Leo Wollman has commented: “ The degree of risk may well be a function of the amount of hormone used.. . . The most likely possibility is that the hormonally feminized male transsexual conservatively treated with estrogen, runs the same risk of breast malignancy as does a normal female. ”29 However, in light of the recent evidence about estrogen replacement therapy and also evidence linking cancer and birth control pills, Wollman’s position is hardly reassuring. Normal women, even on conservative doses of estrogen therapy,“run a great risk” of incurring cancer. Following surgery, transsexuals receive oral maintenance doses of estrogen thus becoming medically managed individuals. Usually, this treatment is administered biweekly, although longer intervals do occur. The hormones used arethe same as those given preoperatively. Such hormones are said to play an important role in general metabolism, particularly with regard to bones, skin, blood vessels, and muscles. Interestingly, it has been said that, “without these hormones, postoperative patients would experience climacteric symptoms, including hot flashes and deterioration of general body tone. ”31 These are, of course, the classic menopausal symptoms. It is now seriously suggested, in the light of evidence linking estrogen replacement therapy and cancer, that such symptoms, if indeed they are really experienced by women, could best be treated by other means (e. g., calcium and phosphorous replacement to prevent bone deterioration).Surgery, however, often does not end with vaginal construction. Secondary operations are often sought by the transsexual, usually for esthetic reasons and/or to correct real or psychologically felt complications. This cosmetic surgery frequently has nothing to do with refashioning the genitalia themselves. It ranges from limb surgery, to eye surgery, chin surgery, ear surgery, scar revision, and even tattoo excision. Some transsexuals also seek reduction of the Adam’s apple. All these procedures are undertaken by the transsexual in the hope of conforming more to the fashionable, stereotypical feminine body image. Many transsexuals go to great lengths to fit themselves to the prescribed body measurements and gestalt of a man-made woman.Surgery to correct complications centers on the breasts and genitalia. Bleeding can be a problem in the breast area, and care must be taken to control this completely. Otherwise, postoperative hematoma (extravascular collection of blood, usually clotted and forming a mass) can occur.Also, the lack of overlying breast tissue covering an implant offers little protection from even the slightest injury.The breast is vulnerable to injury that may cause subsequent expulsion of the prosthesis, again requiring corrective surgery. As far as the genitalia are concerned, correctional problems can occur here also. It has been reported that surgical complications are not common, but the most re­current ones include narrowing of the vagina, rectovaginal fistulas, and narrowing of the urethra.Overall, it has been said that “ the final external appearance of the genitalia varies—not only from patient to patient, but with the surgical technique employed. Few patients are truly satisfied. Many seek further corrective changes. ” 32 Here, however, there is some conflicting evidence. On the one hand, Milton Edgerton and his colleagues have reported that of nine patients operated on by their group all were dissatisfied with the surgery, although all stated that they “would do it again. ”33 Conversely, Fogh-Andersen reported in his series that most patients were satisfied with their surgery and did not regret having made the change.Several authors have commented on the surgical demands and needs of transsexuals. For example: “The surgeon must be prepared to combat the tendency of these patients to desire ‘polysurgery. ’”34 This can be responded to in several ways. First of all, all transsexual surgery, from the primary operative procedures through the secondary surgical adjustments and cosmetic procedures, can be regarded as “polysurgery, ” or “unnecessary surgery. ” (I will discuss the issue more extensively later in this book. ) Secondly, it is hard to see how the surgeon can “be prepared to combat the tendency of these patients to desire ‘polysurgery’” if surgeons are the ones who are creating all the different varieties and kinds of polysurgery, by developing the surgical specialties, which in turn create the demand.THE MEDICALIZED “MALE”The female-to-constructed-male transsexual also begins the sex conversion odyssey with hormone treatment. Androgen is injected to arrest menstruation, to stimulate some hair growth on the face and body, possibly to lower the voice slightly, and to accomplish some reduction of breast tissue. This also causes the muscles and body appearance in general to become progressively more masculine (e. g., the shoulders widen). Long-term administration of testos­terone often increases the size of the clitoris. However, menstruation is not always suppressed by hormone treatment. In some cases, radiation had to be used, because breakthrough bleeding occurred after androgens were injected. In the medical literature, this is called radiation menopause. 3SOne of the ill effects of long-term androgen therapy has been attacks of acne. Some observers also report a libido increase that they regard as undesirable and troublesome, but whether or not this is caused by biological or social-psychological influences is debatable. One of the more serious consequences of androgen is that all its effects are not always reversible. If a woman decides to stop hormone treatment, her voice may retain its low pitch and her facial hair may remain.Surgery involves several steps, all of which are not necessarily undertaken. Mastectomy, hysterectomy, and oophorectomy (removal of the ovaries) are surgical procedures that most transsexuals undergo. As the penis is a constant reminder to the male transsexual of his rejected male body, so are breasts and menstruation to the female.The female transsexual patient, perhaps considerably more than the male, feels quite strongly that something is wrong internally. The menses are regarded as loathsome and often are described as being exceedingly painful. Many patients will seek and perhaps obtain exploratory laparotomy and hysterectomy firmly convinced that testes and other male organs will be discovered. Since testosterone causes only a moderate reduction of a woman’s breasts, female transsexuals usually obtain mastectomies. Hysterectomies and removal of the ovaries constitute the second step in female-to-constructed-male transsexual surgery. * The vagina remains. Phallus construc­*The removal of ovaries was used to tam e deviant women during the nineteenth and early tw entieth century rash o f sexual surgery. This mode of female castration has now been superseded by hysterectom y. If one regards the fem ale-to-constructed-m ale as a potential deviant, as a potential lesbian and wom an-identified wom an, the com parison betw een these castrated wom en and female-to-con-structed-m ale transsexuals is significant.tion, when undertaken, begins in conjunction with a hysterectomy. It is technically possible to construct a penis surgically by rotating a tube flap of skin from the left lower quadrant of the abdomen and closing the vaginal orifice. A urinary conduit can be led through such a phallus, so that the constructed penis may be used for urination. However, because of complications, many surgeons have decided against constructing the phallus so it can be used to urinate. Instead, the female urethra is maintained in its existing position beneath the constructed penis. But the new penis lacks sensitivity, and can become erect only through the insertion of certain stiffening material that remains in the penis all the time, or can be put in and out through an opening in its skin. Many female-to-constructed-male transsexuals, however, stop after obtaining hormone therapy, mastectomy, and hysterectomy, feeling that they do not wish to undergo the multistaged procedures required for the construction of a phallus, which is often also accompanied by scrotal construction. Some transsexuals recognize that the phallus will serve little, if any, role in sexual activity, since the technique of creating an erect penis has not been developed.Some female transsexuals, however, do undergo the number of hospitalizations required for phallus construction. They are convinced that the rodlike stiffener, inserted into the skin of the constructed member, can put pressure on the original clitoris (which still remains) during intercourse, making an orgasm possible. Therefore, some transsexuals are willing to endure the multiple procedures that are necessary for this. One female-to-constructed-male transsexual underwent thirty-three plastic operations to obtain a satisfactory penis. 38 Furthermore, the “fear of discovery” becomes a strong pressure, pushing both male and female transsexuals to undergo every possible kind of surgery. All transsexuals express profound anxiety about being placed in an uncontrolled environment, through accident or illness, and thereby being “unmasked. ” 39 For the female-to-constructed-male transsexual, “ toilet trauma, ” as Zelda Suplee calls it, is a particular fear. Public lavatoryfacilities for men often require the kind of exposure that women do not meet, and this alone increases the female transsexual’s anxiety about phallus construction.THE LEGAL LANDSCAPEProblems for the transsexual, however, are not limited to the medical-surgical realm. For most transsexuals, there are legal difficulties that must also be resolved, and a corresponding legal journey that must be travelled. In fact the legal odyssey, for most transsexuals, begins long before the operation takes place.Legally, there are many constraints on the transsexual and on both the institution and the doctors performing the operation. In addition, there are several state statutes that have been invoked against preoperative transsexuals who have been caught in the act of cross-dressing. Many of these same statutes have been used against transvestites, and in some cases against homosexuals, in the past. Section 887, subdivision 7, of the New York State Code of Criminal Procedure is typical of some state female impersonation statutes that have been used in the past against transvestites and homosexuals, and are now being invoked against transsexuals. Although the preoperative transsexual is not having sexual relations at the time of arrest, nor attempting to solicit or defraud as a female, he is arrested on the grounds of masquerading as female. In such situations, the transsexual has often presented medical certification attesting to his transsexual status, and has still been arrested and convicted under this statute. Furthermore, doctors have been warned against issuing such certification on the grounds that such documents might be judged illegal and/or improper medical conduct by the local, unsympathetic medical association. In many states, there is no hesitation on the part of the police to arrest under a disorderly conduct statute 41 This is done despite the fact that the transsexual was in no way being disorderly at the time of arrest and does not perpetrate the usual acts (e. g., crowd-gathering, loud commotion,etc. ) that cause disorderly conduct arrests. Various “ catchall” statutes are also invoked. Under these statutes, persons can be taken into legal custody for acts that outrage public decency and for which there are no other specific and covering statutes. Thus catchall statutes make it very difficult to predict what kind of behavior is defined as criminal, and they leave much discretion to the arresting officer. 42 Under catchall statutes, transvestite, homosexual, and transsexual persons have been frequently arrested, and many have been jailed, convicted, and fined.Legal difficulties are not solved for the transsexual even after sex-conversion surgery has taken place. The postoperative transsexual, in many states, faces long legal battles in trying to change personal papers. Some states have been quick to grant such changes; others have been more gradual; and some have refused altogether.In many areas, transsexuals and their advocates have asked the courts to define sex, and to thereby set a precedent for other legal decisions on the matter. Johns Hopkins Hospital followed a fundamentally different procedure.The medical community there took the initiative on behalf of their clients to guide the city and state in setting an administrative precedent for birth certificate changes. In 1967, one of the Johns Hopkins Gender Identity Committee members spoke with an official of Baltimore’s Bureau of Vital Statistics. This official allowed that the name on a transsexual’s birth certificate could be amended and also that the sex could be changed to conform to the new legal name. A shortened birth certificate with only new information on it was then issued to the transsexual. The old certificate with emendation was kept in a sealed envelope on record and could be produced, if necessary, to insure continuity of legal identity, which might be needed for the purposes of proving past schooling, social security, and inheritance rights. Most of the transsexual’s everyday needs would be met by the short-form certificate carrying no evidence of sex reassignment. With respect to the surgery itself, there are several statutes that may be invoked against both transsexualsand the institution that performs the operation. Looming largest is the threat of legal mutilation, which is embodied in so-called mayhem statutes, still on the books in a majority of states. These statutes forbid the willful and permanent deprivation, crippling, and/or mutilation of a bodily organ. They could be used to prosecute the transsexual who undergoes sex-conversion surgery, the surgeons performing the operation, and the institution in which the operation is done. Surgeons have been warned by district attorneys’ offices throughout the country of impending prosecution under this law, when they have inquired about the legality of transsexual surgery. In contrast to the risk of criminal liability, a physician may also be exposed to liability in tort, if the individual’s consent to the operation should be declared invalid. (A case in Argentina ruled that a transsexual’s consent to sex-conversion surgery was unnatural, and therefore invalid, and the surgeon became liable in tort for assault. )In the United States, however, where no such legal decisions have been rendered concerning the operation itself, the institutions that are performing such operations have followed various legal courses. With a mayhem statute hovering over it, the U. C. L. A. Medical Center decided not to initiate such operations on their own but instead asked the law if it could find some legal precedent to guide them.One of the university’s legal advisors cautioned against what he termed a legally risky surgical venture. Thus the U. C. L. A. Gender Identity Clinic presently performs sex-conversion surgery on only those individuals who have definite and provable biological sexual anomalies. A second group of medical personnel at the University of Minnesota acted similarly to the U. C. L. A. team in asking the law for guidance in this area. However, the absence of a mayhem statute in the state of Minnesota was the key factor that encouraged its decision to proceed with transsexual operations. 47 Had they been faced with the presence of a mayhem statute, it is likely that the Minnesota group might have followed U. C. L. A. ’s course.Strikingly different from the preceding two cases is thatof the Johns Hopkins Gender Identity Clinic. This group, instead of asking the law for guidance, as we noted previously in the birth certificate situation, again set a precedent for the law to look to. When the case of G. L., a seventeen-year-old boy, arose and transsexual surgery was sought by the boy and his parents, the specialists involved, confident of their medical decision about sex-reassignment surgery for the boy, proceeded on the basis of their own medical judgment. The boy, the boy’s parents, his probation officer (the boy had been involved in repeated delinquencies supposedly linked to sexual dissatisfaction with his body), two specialists from the Hopkins Clinic, and a judge joined together to form a liaison among the petitioners, medicine, and the law in the event that sex conversion should be challenged in the future. Furthermore, the judge signed a court order for the surgery. This court order would set no legal precedent unless challenged by a higher court, but the very act of procuring a court order placed the whole procedure within the scope of the law.The judge himself attended several meetings of the Johns Hopkins Gender Identity Committee and said he would be available should his advice be needed. This, of course, is a highly unusual procedure. The University’s lawyer also worked closely with the team, discussing various legal issues with them and advising them on such aspects as consent and legal name changes. Thus confrontation between law and medicine was avoided so that no lawyer or judge would be put in the position of interpreting Hopkins’s policy. Acting on the basis of professional judgment, the Hopkins medical group defined the problem as a medical one and acted accordingly, getting the law to affirm its judgment. In assessing the legal position of the transsexual, various factors come into play. First of all, it can be demonstrated that statutes invoked against the preoperative transsexual who cross-dresses are plainly unjust, not applicable, or too widely construed to be legitimately enforced. Section 887, subdivision 7, of the New York State Code of Criminal Procedure is a case in point. This statute expressly forbidsfemale impersonation, but should only be invoked when impersonation is used to defraud or solicit. As Robert Sherwin has stated, there is no law that expressly forbids males to wear female clothing, per se. There are laws that forbid males from doing so for the purposes of defrauding when, for example, one tries to gain illegal entry or attempts to acquire money by such impersonation. 49 However, the statute has not been adhered to, and wide discretionary powers are given to arresting officers.Arresting officers in some states have used also a wide and broadly applied disorderly conduct statute or other catchall statutes to pull cross-dressers off the streets or out of public, and even private, places. Given the latitude of application here, such statutes should be revised or eliminated altogether. Impersonation statutes should be invoked precisely for the purposes they were intended, i. e., to stop fraud; disorderly conduct should include only obvious disorderly conduct. Transvestism cannot of itself be demonstrated to be disorderly conduct.At this point, the causes of transsexualism need to be examined. The medical and psychological literature has focused on two areas: (1) prenatal critical hormonal factors that supposedly set “the direction but not the extent of sex differences” ; and (2) individual and family influences that are claimed to condition transsexual development.Both theories warrant a close examination, yet, as I shall argue, both neglect the wider and more primary influence of sex-role stereotyping in a patriarchal society, and both ultimately conclude by blaming the mother.C H A P T E R IIAre TranssexualsBorn or Made—or Both?T h e causes of transsexualismhave been debated for years. Perhaps the earliest commentator was Herodotus. He explained the origin of what he referred to as “the Scythian illness” by resorting to divine causation. Venus, enraged with the plundering of her temple at Ascelos, changed the Scythian males and their posterity into women as her divine punishment for their misdeeds. Herodotus notwithstanding, most theories fall into two camps—biological and psychological. Biological theories have tended to focus on neuro-endocrine factors. In this chapter I will mainly be concerned with these biological aspects, especially as they are developed as part of an inter-actionist theory in the writings of John Money and his associates. Chapter III will be devoted to psychological theories of transsexualism, which highlight factors of imprinting, family conditioning, and general psychoanalytic hypotheses.In both chapters I will demonstrate that while biological and psychological investigations seek different causes, they both utilize the same theoretical model—i. e., both seek causes within the individual and/or interpersonal matrix.In such investigations, social, political, and cultural processes tend to be relegated to a subsidiary or nonexistent role, because the model focuses attention on individual or interpersonal gender differences and similarities rather than upon the gender-defined social system in which transsexual behaviors arise. For example, psychological theories measure a transsexual’s adjustment or nonadjustment to the cultural identity and role of masculinity or femininity.They seldom question the social norms of masculinity and femininity themselves.This chapter will be concerned mainly with the work of John Money and associates. There are many reasons I have chosen to do an extensive analysis of Money’s work. First of all, his theories on sex differences have gained wide acceptance, both in academic and lay circles. They have also been widely cited by feminist scholars. No other researcher in this area has developed any comparable body of research. Thus most discussions of sex differences refer to Money’s work as a kind of bible. Second, no one has done a comprehensive analysis and critique of Money’s work, especially as it relates to issues surrounding transsexualism. For example, Money’s much-publicized theory that core gender identity is fixed by the age of eighteen months forms one critical basis for the justification of transsexual surgery, and therefore deserves special attention. Finally, inherent in Money’s proclaimed scientific statements about sex differences are many normative and philosophical statements about the natures of women and men. Under the guise of science, he makes normative and prescriptive statements about who women and men are and who they ought to be. It is one task of this chapter to expose these assertions.Money’s theories about sex differences are based on the supposition that the nature-nurture debate is obsolete. Instead he proposes an interactionist theory of sex differences that claims to unite biological and environmental factors into a unique, sophisticated gestalt. At times hesounds like a biologizer and, at other times, like an environmental determinist. It is very difficult to get a precise grasp on exactly what Money is stating. Thus while it may seem that I am equivocating with the explanation and critique of Money’s theories, this is because Money himself consistently equivocates.In discussing the importance of biology, Money is no biologizer of the ancien regime in which, for example, hormonal determinists linked anatomy directly with destiny. (I am reminded here of theories about female behavior that were based on “raging hormonal imbalances”[Edgar Berman] or male bonding theories based on reduc-tionistic endocrinology and selective anthropology [Lionel Tiger]. ) Rather, what makes Money’s theories on sex differences so attractive to those who should know better is that he claims to unite biological and environmental factors into a unique, sophisticated whole.On the environmental side, Money’s statements about the effects of socialization or learning are just as deceiving.Possibly to avoid the charge of biologizer, Money emphasizes that the socialization side of the coin is more significant than the biological. In fact, it is so significant that“core” gender identity is fixed during the first eighteen months of life. Here the theme changes from “biology is destiny” to “socialization is destiny. ” Yet many of those who accept Money’s theories seem not to notice this switch, which takes on all the force of a new natural law.The seductiveness of Money’s work resides in the fact that he comes close to the truth in postulating that the interaction of biology and environment may explain certain facets of sex differences. But it is my contention that he has failed to show us that they do. Thus he tells us very little about the origins of transsexualism.THE NATURE-NURTURE DEBATE IS OBSOLETEIn my opinion, there are five main aspects to Money’s theory of sex differences:1. The distinction between nature and nurture, or innate traits versus acquired traits, is obsolete. Biology combined with socialization determines sex differences.2. A most critical period in the development of sex differences is the prenatal stage. At this point hormones activate the brain and set the direction but not the extent of sex differences.3. The development of gender identity can be compared to the development of native language.4. The “locking tight” of gender identity occurs by the age of eighteen months. After this, it is very difficult, if not impossible, to reverse psychosexual orientation.5. Social change will come about, not by doing away with cultural definitions of masculinity and femininity, but by bringing more flexibility to the stereotypes to meet present and future changes.Money dissociates himself from early theorists of biological determinism by accusing them of using simplistic methods. He purports to take a more solidly scientific approach using new information. (One way in which he has been able to escape the label of simplistic biologizing is by what I have termed his pseudo-interactionism or pseudo-organicism. )2 Compared to earlier theorists, Money appears to be a very astute and careful researcher of gender identity. For example, the earlier, more reductionistic theorists linked anatomy directly to destiny. Straightforward links between hormonal factors and supposed behavioral results were simplistically set forth. In Money, however, the connection between the two is indirect.There is a mediating structure, the human brain—more specifically, the hypothalamus—which when activiated by specific sex hormones sets up neural pathways for gender identity that postnatal socialization later develops.As early as 1963, Money was saying that the dichotomy between innate and acquired traits was conceptually outdated. 3 This assertion has continued to form the philosophical underpinning for all of his work on sex differences and is reiterated as the basis of Man & Woman, Boy& Girl.In the theory o f psychosexual differentiation, it is now outm oded to juxtapose nature versus nurture, the genetic versus the environmental, the innate versus the acquired, the biological versus the psychological, or the instinctive versus the learned. Modem genetic theory avoids these antiquated dichotomies, and postulates a genetic norm o f reaction which, for its proper expression, requires phyleti-cally prescribed environmental boundaries. If these boundaries are either too constricted, or too diffuse, then the environment is lethal, and the genetic code cannot express itself for the cells carrying it are nonviable. The interaction of biological and social factors is explained by using the concept of a program and by comparing that program to the development of native language.There are certain parts of the program that exert a determining influence, particularly in the prenatal period, and leave a permanent imprint. These are hormonal influences that act on the brain to set up supposed neural pathways to receive postnatal, social, gender identity signals. After birth, the biological program shifts to one of psychosexual conditioning, and gender identity now becomes largely a m atter of biographical history, especially social biography.Once written, the social biography program leaves its imprint, as did the biological. Money and Ehrhardt admit that of the two, the social factors are the most influential part of gender identity differentiation but that prenatal hormonal factors are necessary to set the direction, if not the extent, of sex differences. They “predispose. ”Such theories have an attraction because they seemingly reconcile opposing factors. They achieve instant reconciliation, so to speak. However, it is important to examine organic theories, especially those that claim to have a scientific base, to see if the connection is made by fiat rather than by demonstrable and credible evidence. I believe that there is a series of missing links in Money’s approach.For example, let us examine the biological “program. ”Money and Ehrhardt’s assertions about the importance of prenatal hormonal factors influencing behavior rest on statements such as the following.Testicular secretions, their presence or absence or their intrusion from exogenous sources, account not only for the shape of the external but also for certain patterns of organization in the brain, especially by inference in the hypothalamus, pathways that will subsequently influence certain aspects of sexual behavior. Thus they pass on the program, dividing it between two carriers, namely the genital morphology and that part of the central nervous system, peripheral and intracranial, which serves the genital morphology[Italics mine] . Put simply, if a person, for some reason, has more androgen prenatally, it will take less stimulus to orient that person toward strenuous physical activity (certain designated masculine activities) and more stimulus to evoke a response to helpless children (and other designated feminine activities). To prove this, Money draws on data from animal experimentation and from certain groups of females who were androgenized in utero.There is something missing, however. How do hormonal secretions account not only for physical genital formation but for “certain patterns of organization in the brain”which influence “certain aspects of sexual behavior”? The connection between hormonal determinants and subsequent brain patterns is never made clear. How does the central nervous system, insofar as “prenatal hormonal factors make it sexually dimorphic, ” pass on its program in the form of behavioral traits, which are “culturally classified as predominantly boyish or girlish”? 6 Money and Ehrhardt are cautious enough to say: “These traits do not automatically determine the dimorphism of gender identity, but they exert some influence on the ultimate pattern of gender identity. ” 7 This is precisely the question, however. How do they exert even “some influence, ” and what is the content of this specific influence?Money admits that the precise answer to this question is not yet known. “In human beings the pathways have not yet been anatomically identified. ”8 If this is Money and Ehrhardt’s ultimate conclusion, then it is reasonable to ask why they spent so many pages discussing the probability, at best, of especially the animal findings being extrapolated to human behavior. Money and Ehrhardtappear to be forcing the parallel between animal behavior and females androgenized in utero. It is just as credible that the so-called masculine behavior of the androgenized girls could be entirely due to postnatal socialization.In summary, the point is should any significance be claimed for biological factors in the development of gender identity? Just because Money and Ehrhardt proclaim that the nature-nurture debate is outmoded and that there is an organic interaction between biology and socialization should not dissuade us from asking for the specific evidence in a work that makes great pretensions to using scientific modes of inquiry. Is science, in John Money, reducible to hidden pseudometaphysical statements about the nature and behavior of men and women?Or as Ann Oakley has pointed out, why do these alleged prenatal hormonal factors that set the course for gender identity differentiation so exactly parallel the course that society sets for masculine and feminine gender identity and role? Is what is at stake in Money’s work not science, but a world view, ideology, or faith commitment of an ontological sort? It appears that Money has only negated the idea that it is either/or, but has not proven the reality that it is both/and.HORMONAL HAPPENINGS IN THE WOMBAccording to Money in the case of transsexualism possibly something goes wrong during the prenatal critical period.Specifically, Money and Ehrhardt list a number of prenatal abnormal determinants, not all of which necessarily influence the development of transsexualism.The phyletic program may be altered by idiosyncrasies o f personal history, such as the loss or gain o f a chromosome during cell division, a deficiency or excess o f maternal hormones, viral invasion, intrauterine traum a, nutritional deficiency or toxicity, and so forth.O ther idiosyncratic m odifications may be added by the biographical events o f b irth . Of all such “idiosyncratic modifications, ” however, Money and Ehrhardt devote themselves most explicitly to hor­monal factors. They are careful to assert, nevertheless, that these hormonal factors and how they relate to transsexualism are “imperfectly understood. ”There may well be an as yet undiscovered fetal metabolic or hormonal component which acts to induce a predisposition to ambiguity or incongruity of postnatal gender identity differentiation.There may be a special disposition in the organization of the brain toward the acquisition of roles and their dissociation in the manner o f multiple personality or fugue state. In either case, a prenatal disposition is probably insufficient in itself, and needs to be augmented by postnatal social history. Thus the authors are careful to appeal again to their inter-actionist theory of sex differences, being cautious about overstressing the hormonal.The Overriding Effects o f Androgen. According to Money, male and female hormones are not equally significant in affecting “the hypothalamic pathways that will subsequently influence certain aspects of sexual behavior. ”Rather, it is the presence or absence of androgen that is most determinative. Until about the sixth week after conception, the embryo does not begin to differentiate sexually. (Or, as some would phrase it, all human fetuses are female up to this point. ) Biological femaleness results from the absence of androgenic hormones. Money and Ehrhardt state it this way: “In the particular context of neonatal (or prenatal) hormonal effects, the antithesis of androgen is not estrogen, but nothing. ” 11 In Money’s opinion, androgen regulates both the development of external genitalia and certain forms of behavior and intelligence. As far as the external organs are concerned,“ feminine differentiation requires only the absence of androgen. It does not require the presence of a feminizing substance. ” Likewise the presence or absence of androgen affects behavior. Here again, “ the antithesis of androgen is not estrogen, but no gonadal hormone at all—in fact no substitute whatever. ” 13 The absence of androgen either at the prenatal critical period or at other critical periodsof development (whether absent normally as in the genetic female, or artificially through castration or antiandrogen treatment in the genetic male) results in a brain “organized” to produce so-called feminine behavior and response. Thus it is Money and Ehrhardt’s contention that there is a fetal organization of neural structures essentially of the hypothalamus, which makes parts of the brain essentially male or female. Portions of the fetal brain affect not only hormonal and reproductive functions but also behavior—especially lovemaking and coitus. However, other behavior patterns are affected as well. For example, Money and Ehrhardt cite so-called tomboy conduct. Their causal explanation of tomboyism is grounded in fetal hormonal activity.The most likely hypothesis to explain the various features of tomboyism in fetally masculinized genetic females is th at their tomboyism is a sequel to a masculinizing effect on the fetal brain.This masculinization may apply specifically to pathways, most probably in the limbic system or paleocortex, th at mediate dominance assertion (possibly in association with assertion of exploratory and territorial rights) and, therefore, manifests itself in competitive energy expenditure. Originally the authors also made a positive correlation, although tenuously, between increased fetal androgen and increased I. Q. Money and Ehrhardt stated that there is “some preliminary evidence to suggest that an abnormally elevated prenatal androgen level, whether in genetic males or females, enhances I. Q. ” 1S The authors claim that this finding of I. Q. elevation in females exposed to excessive androgen was not a finding that was looked for. It was a “serendipitous one” and one that also occurred in genetic males similarly exposed. *♦ E hrhardt has subsequently discredited the I. Q. findings herself.In conjunction w ith Susan Baker, she has stated th a t it is highly unlikely th a t increase in I. Q. is an effect of horm one treatm ent.R ather it is a co n stru ct of inadequately m atched controls. See Anke A. E h rh ard t and Susan W. Baker, “ Prenatal A ndrogen, In telligence, and Cognitive Sex D ifferences, ” in R. C. Friedm an, R. M. R ichart, and R. L. Vande Wiele, eds., Sex Differences inBehavior (New York: Wiley, 1974).In order to prove that androgen affects the kinds of behavior referred to above, Money and Brennan cite studies with two human control groups who were accidentally androgenized in utero. The first was done on a group of girls with the so-called adrenogenital syndrome.The second study researched another group of girls with the progestin-induced syndrome. (These syndromes are explained further in the following pages. ) Money and Brennan connect both syndromes with transsexualism.Basically, their words speak for themselves.Tomboyishness in the progestin-induced and the adrenogenital syndromes is a m atter chiefly of physical energy expenditure and outdoor athletic interests of the type customarily assigned to b o y s .. . . This description of tomboyishness in childhood applies fairly well to what the transsexual patients reported of themselves, except that they grew up to discover they were lesbian-oriented in their erotic disposition. One may, therefore, legitimately pose the question of whether a tendency to tomboyish energy expenditure is not a primary trait in incipient female transsexuals, and one that somehow facilitates the subsequent differentiation of a transsexual gender identity, provided various prerequisite postnatal conditions. . . are encountered. Always careful, however, never to stress the biological side of the coin alone, Money and Ehrhardt explain transsexual development further by reverting to their interactionist approach.These traits may interact with postnatal social influences that shape gender identity. Prenatally induced tomboyish traits, for example, may make it easy for a genetic female to have not simply a tom boyish version of a feminine gender identity, but, if postnatal circumstances so conspire, to differentiate a transsexual gender identity and want a sex reassignment. The same might happen in reverse for a genetic male. One may legitimately ask, however, how many female-to-constructed-male transsexuals have either the progestin-induced or the adrenogenital syndromes and how many“tomboys” become transsexuals. Anticipating these questions and others like them, Money and Brennan admitthat, after all is said and done, “The most economical conclusion to draw from all the foregoing is that female transsexualism is a disorder of psychosexual differentiation and is, regardless of its still unknown etiology, a psychologic manifestation. ” “Monkey See, Mammals Do. ” Much of Money’s theorizing concerning hormonal activity in utero, specifically with respect to androgen, is based on animal experimentation.Rats, hamsters, and monkeys, in particular, who were an-drogenizd prenatally or neonatally, were studied under mating conditions.Citing the so-called masculine behavior of the prenatally androgenized, hermaphroditic, female rhesus monkey, Money and Ehrhardt state that her activities are reminiscent of tomboyism in girls. Like male monkeys, she shows an increased amount of play initiation, rough-and-tumble activity, chasing behavior, and playful threats. It is important here to note that “ tomboyism” is never specifically defined by Money, but always described in this kind of behavior. Mounting play is increased compared to other female monkeys, who present hind-end stances of sexual invitation. Moreover, the patterns of mounting of such masculinized monkeys also take on a masculine stance. All of this is by way of demonstrating that the human clinical syndromes concerning the influence of prenatal hormones on gender behavior that are reviewed in Man & Woman, Boy & Girl, have their counterparts in experimental animal data. The authors caution, however, that these prenatal hormones only set “ the direction” which later interaction with the social environment completes. They also caution that in the final analysis, “little can be said regarding the various structures of the brain that supposedly are subject to prenatal hormonal organizing influences. ”A Two-Way Critique. On a scientific level, several commentators have made major criticisms of gender identity and behavior theories that rely on animal findings, with particular reference to Money’s work. Ann Oakley, for one,has stressed that animal research can only be applied hypothetically to humans. Particularly in the field of sexual behavior, she has noted that animals are subject to a much more direct control mechanism than humans. Humans impose an additional control of learning.Oakley cites Rose’s work, which reached the conclusion that although androgen may be significantly related to sexual behavior the social context of the monkeys themselves is of great importance. For example, female rhesus monkeys injected with androgen show an increase in the“male” practice of “mounting, ” but only if they are dominant members of their group to begin with before they are injected. If subordinate females are injected, the incidence of mounting behavior remains the same. Likewise, when dominant male monkeys who secrete testosterone in excess are placed in a social environment where their dominance is not recognized, they become inferior members of the group and their testosterone output lessens considerably. Thus it can be seen that the role of sex hormones in generating signals that are relayed to the brain and converted into sexual arousal is clearly outweighed by environmental factors. In the latter example of the male monkeys (to reverse the Freudian adage), it is destiny that determines anatomy, or at least determines hormone levels.The testosterone output itself varied enormously depending on how the male monkey perceived his environment and his place in it. Further research has shown how aggressive behavior in animals is significantly dependent on how it is reinforced. Mice and dogs can be trained to relative passivity by altering the type of reinforcement that aggressive behavior is usually activated by. But in the animal world, study of the way in which environmental factors may be able to affect behavior has been neglected. Elizabeth Adkins has pointed to a number of factors in the animal experiments that make human comparisons or extrapolations from animal data highly dubious. She reinforces the role of environment and its impact on rhesus monkeys. Researchers have found that there are discrepancies between those animals reared in the laboratory andthose reared in the wild. The latter are less aggressive, and thus Adkins suggests that some of the sex differences and early hormone effects may have been influenced by the artificial social and physical environment of the monkeys. Furthermore, the majority of the animal experiments use copulating behavior as an example of sex differences.None of the human experiments do. The primary effect of early exposure to androgen in the female rat is that the capacity to display lordosis (the receptive posture) is impaired. Yet there is no human behavior homologous to lordosis, and in fact human female sexual behavior is not particularly controlled by sex hormones at all. It is also difficult to sex-type animal behavior from one species to another, since there is marked species differentiation. Adkins cites Kleiman’s findings, which showed that in some mammals, males are more aggressive than females; in others, females are more aggressive. Thus it is very difficult to generalize anything about animal behavior, whether within a species, or cross species. The analogies to human behavior are all the more difficult to make.What do such findings ultimately indicate about the pertinence of animal behavior in assessing human behavior?Humans, to an even greater degree, impose additional controls on any hormonal experiments—that of sociocultural factors in general—and it is the human ability to learn and to rationalize, or even to be affected by sociocultural factors that are not necessarily learned, that make generalizations from other species difficult and of dubious value.The analogy becomes increasingly ridiculous when we add that the nonhuman female primate has no hymen, menopause, [or] artificial feeding bottle.. . . The males of these species are dominant, aggressive, and show no desire or ability to give the female pleasure.This is equally absurd in its application to human culture, enabling the patriarchal world to be supported in its very foundation, justifying the aggressive acts of the male, in the bedroom, by reference to the jungle, and providing a rationale for aggressive acts in the distinctly human world of social, economic, and political affairs. We might also add here that as it is absurd to extrapolate human data from animal activity in the jungle, it is as absurd to extrapolate such data from animals in cages.The only human contexts where the effects of outside androgen increase in females could be studied were the progestin-induced syndrome and the adrenogenital syndrome. Money and Ehrhardt studied both groups. In the first case, ten girls had been androgenized accidentally in utero as a result of the drug progestin, which their mothers took during pregnancy. In the adrenogenital syndrome, the adrenal cortex in the normal XX female fails to synthesize cortisone and, instead, releases an incomplete product that has the biological masculinizing properties of androgen. Money and Ehrhardt studied a group of fifteen girls with this syndrome whose androgen level was reduced gradually after birth. They ranged in age from four to sixteen years. In both groups (the progestin-induced and adrenogenital), each girl’s androgen excess levelled off post-natally. They developed normal-looking female genitalia and appearance, and they were raised as females. However, Money and Ehrhardt found, in contrast to a control group of females who had not been excessively androgenized in utero, that they showed so-called opposite sex behavior—e. g., tomboyism, rough-and-tumble play.Elizabeth Adkins has asked, however, if this is the only interpretation that can be made. Upon closer examination, she finds many problems with the method and design used by the experimenters. First of all, the adrenogenital girls had been treated with cortisone since infancy, which itself can have behavioral effects that would differentiate these girls from others. Adrenogenital girls who were not receiving cortisone were never tested. More importantly, parental treatment may have produced less sex-typed behavior, since such parents may have been more willing to tolerate “tomboyish” actions because they knew their girls were different. Most significant, Adkins states that what then was looked upon as deviant girlish behavior is now the norm. Finally, observers have pointed out that human hor­mone levels, as well as animal hormone levels, vary according to environmental circumstances. For example, many forms of stress have been correlated with a drop in testosterone. 26 “Moreover, hormone levels in a given individual vary according to environmental circumstances (a study of American soldiers in Vietnam, for example, showed a sharp drop in testosterone levels); we are apparently dealing with a fluctuating process, not a fixed state. ” Aside from the critical commentary that has already been directed at Money’s work on sex differences from a scientific level, there is a more philosophical critique that can be made at this point. Money and Ehrhardt’s statements about the “ overriding effects of androgen” have strong suggestions of Aristotelian/Thomistic biology. In Aristotle and Thomas, the male principle was seen to be the active power of generation and the female principle the passive power, or worse, the totally nonaffecting power (read nonpower or even nonbeing). According to Thomas Aquinas:Among perfect animals the active power of generation belongs to the male sex, and the passive power to the fe m a le.. . . As regards the individual nature, woman is defective and misbegotten, for the active force in the male seed tends to the production of a perfect likeness in the masculine sex; while the production o f woman comes from defect in the active force or from some material indisposition, or even from some external influence; such as th at of a south wind which is moist, as the Philosopher observes. Money and Erhardt say much the same thing in the language they choose to describe the power of androgens:“the antithesis of androgen is not estrogen, but nothing. ”In Money’s theories of sex differences, androgen is the activating principle—“ feminine differentiation requires only the absence of androgen. It does not require the presence of a feminizing substance. ” (Italics mine. ) However, it is not only estrogen, or other female hormones such as progesterone, that are said to be passively present.What remains obscured in Money and Ehrhardt’s work is the initial female development of all embryos.Money’s “ overriding effects of androgen” statementscan be thrown into bolder relief by contrasting his words with those of endocrinologist Estelle Ramey, who phrases the “androgen principle” in this way:For the little it is worth as commentary on Adam’s Rib, it is the female sex that is primal. The early embryo is female until the fifth or sixth week of fetal life. A testicular inductor substance must be generated at this point to suppress the growth o f ovaries. No ovarian inductor is required for female differentiation because all mammalian embryos o f either genetic sex have the innate capacity for femaleness. Eve and not Adam appears to have been the primeval human th at God had in mind. This wording projects quite a different picture than Money and Ehrhardt’s assertion about the insignificance of estrogen. Indeed Ramey presents the initial female momentum of sex differentiation as being so powerful that it must be “suppressed. ” Warren Gadpaille, M. D., states the same principle in this way:Nature’s prime disposition is to produce females; maleness only results from something added—androgen. In the absence of androgens, whether the fetus is of XX or XY genotype, differentiation will proceed as female (though in the genotype XY in mammalian species at least, ovaries will not differentiate). The converse is not true; the absence of ovaries, and thus of estrogenic and progestinic substances, does not interfere with female internal and external sex structure development though such individuals will naturally be infertile. Thus initial embryonic female differentiation is so powerful that even without the presence of female hormones, female internal and external sex structure will result whether in an XX or XY genotype. Furthermore, as Eileen van Tassell has pointed out, the male needs the X chromosome in order to survive. There is no YO chromosomal anomaly. The female, however, does not need a second X, and XO females have been bom and survived. Both Ramey and Gadpaille’s statements suggest that, in opposition to Money and Ehrhardt’s interpretations, it would be more correct to say that genetic XX-ness is theprimordially activating substance. As Robert Stoller has said: “The genital anatomic fact is that, embryologically speaking, the penis is a masculinized clitoris; the neuro-physiological fact is that the male brain is an androgenized female brain. ”Why is it then that Money and his associates have not pointed out that it is essentially a female anatomy and a female brain that sets the course of biological development that male hormones only turn in a different direction?If there is a biological basis or force for masculine and feminine behavior, as Money asserts, which sets “the direction” but not the extent of sexual behavior and psychosexual differentiation, then this biological force may be initially female. Or more importantly, why pick an arbitrary period of androgen onset, and speculate that this is the critical period when the equally critical period might be the “original” fetal female state?In the book Sexual Signatures, Money has taken note of what he and Patricia Tucker call the “ Eve base view. ”(It is significant that this interpretation appears in Money’s more popularized work on sex differences, and not in Man& Woman, Boy & Girl. )When it comes to male and female, the Bible tells of Adam as the base with something—a rib—taken away to make Eve. In the light of modern research you might take Eve as the base and think of something—male horm one—added to make Adam, or you could keep Adam as the base with something—again male hormone—decreased to make Eve. We have adopted the Eve base view, and will refer to the something that must be added for male differentiation as the Adam principle. It is certainly not evident throughout Man & Woman, Boy& Girl that Money and Ehrhardt have “adopted the Eve base view. ” Nor does Money follow through on the statement in view of his belief about the “ overriding effects of androgen. ”Money’s use of masculine, feminine, tomboy, sissy is revealing. The language of masculinization and feminization is applied equally to biologizing processes and psycho-social processes. The explanation of tomboyism stands out here very strikingly. For example, Money states: “The most likely hypothesis to explain the various features of tomboyism in fetally masculinized genetic females is that tomboyism is a sequel to a masculinizing effect on the fetal brain. ”In several places, Money talks about genetic males and females failing to develop normal masculine or feminine gender identities. Obviously, Money and his associates accept the stereotypes to some extent. To consistently term assertive and rough-and-tumble behavior on the part of girls tomboyish and to persist in naming certain behavioral qualities as masculine or feminine is to support patriarchal history’s assertion that such behavior and qualities are and should be sex-specific. Here the language of inadequate science becomes subtly transferred to the language of ethics.While it is true that many cultures define certain behaviors, personality characteristics, tasks, and activities as male or female, masculine or feminine (a point that Money and associates highlight), these same cultures define masculinity and femininity in vastly different ways, emphasizing various qualities, interests, and occupations as sex-linked. (Anthropologists such as Mead, Malinowski, and Devereux have written extensively on this subject. ) It appears that the language of masculinity and femininity varies so widely throughout the world that the only reason for maintaining it seems to be an implicit belief that societies must link some behaviors and qualities to biological sex in order to be orderly and functional. This, as will be developed later, is Money’s contention (within suitable boundaries of flexibility).GENDER IDENTITY DEVELOPMENT COMPARED TODEVELOPMENT OF NATIVE LANGUAGEA third main point in Money’s theory of sex differences is an analogy with language. Money and Tucker remark that it is no accident that the years of language develop­ment (the first few years after birth) are also the years of gender identity formation.You were bom wired for language, so to speak, but not programmed for any particular language.. . . The environmental trigger th at enabled you to start talking was the use o f language by those around you during th at critical language-learning period, the first few years after birth. It was the interaction between your prenatally programmed disposition for language and the postnatal, socially programmed language signals you heard th at made it possible. You couldn’t have become a talking person unless somebody talked a language to you. Furthermore, the language th at was talked to you then put its mark on the way you could think ever after. It becomes your native language and will always be your native language, even if you never use it afterward. In the same way, Money and Tucker talk about the development of gender identity. Supposedly, persons are bom with “ something that was ready to become your gender identity. You were wired but not programmed for gender in the same sense that you were wired but not programmed for language. ”The analogy between development of native language and formation of gender identity is flawed. First of all, Money confuses a general ability to speak any language, depending upon cultural factors, with a specific ability to differentiate according to one gender only, i. e., either the so-called masculine or feminine gender. According to Money, as we have seen, gender identity is predisposed by prenatal, rather specific, hormonal factors and later added to by postnatal environmental influences. It is quite a different thing to say that one is “wired” for language and that one is “ wired” for gender. While we are not“ wired” for any particular language, as Money readily admits, we are “hormonally wired” for a specific gender identity—within flexible limits of the stereotype (if all goes well).A more suitable analogy would be that we are “wired”to exercise a variety of behavioral qualities in the same way that we are “wired” to speak a variety of languages, both very dependent on postnatal learning and culturalfactors. If Money simply said that we are “wired” to develop some sexual identity, i. e., some awareness of ourselves as sexual beings, then there would be no argument with him. It is ironic that Money should choose the analogy of native language when, in other instances, he has remained so insensitive to his own “syntactic exploitation. ”THE “ LOCKING TIGHT” OF GENDER IDENTITYIf biology begins the program of gender identity, social factors set the direction of that behavior in an even more determined way. In Money’s work, the gender of assignment and rearing transcends all other determinants. He cites instances of children with identical genotypes, hormones, gonads, and other internal structures, some of whom were reared as girls and others as boys. In almost every instance the child came to regard her or himself as female or male, depending on the way in which she or he was reared. The gender of rearing remained, even in the face of contradictory pubertal changes. Most dramatic of all are cases in which even the external genitalia were obviously more similar to the opposite sex than the child was assigned to and in which she/he was reared. Even in these cases, gender identity remained unequivocably that of assignment and rearing.Money is very specific about the critical period for gender identity—that is, between the ages of twelve and eighteen months—asserting that gender identity is pretty well fixed by the age of eighteen months. In the case of hermaphrodites, “ It is ill-advised to impose a sex reassignment on a child in contradiction of a gender identity already well advanced in its differentiation—which means that the age ceiling for an imposed reassignment is, in the majority of cases, around eighteen months. ”38 This is so, because child-rearing in our culture is sexually distinctive, and from the day that an infant is picked up out of a crib, that child begins to get gender identity signals (by the way she/he is touched, spoken to, etc. ).The minute you were born, society took over. When the drama of your birth reached its climax, you were prom ptly greeted with the glad ritual cry, “I t’s a boy! ” or “I t’s a girl! ” depending on whether or not those in attendance observed a penis in your crotch.. . . The label “boy” or “ girl, ” however, has tremendous force as a self-fulfilling prophecy, for it throws the full weight of society to one side or the other as the newborn heads for the gender identity f o r k . . . . Parents react differently to the signal “son” or “ daughter” from the first m om ent. There are some exceptions, of course, to this age ceiling, but this is due to confused gender-rearing practices. For example, when parents are given conflicting diagnoses of their infant’s sex, perhaps by different physicians at different times, they may express their uncertainty in confused gender-rearing practices. But on the whole, in the“normal” (read culturally prescribed) process of gender identity and role development, the “locking tight” of this process occurs at an incredibly early age. Furthermore, according to Money, once more girls are defined by the absence of a penis, not by the presence of female genitalia.This corresponds to his theory of prenatal development, where it is the absence of androgen, not the presence of estrogen, that is responsible for female differentiation.This “locking tight” of gender identity almost takes on the tone of a new “natural-law” theory in Money.“When the gender identity gate closed behind you it locked tight. You knew in the very core of your consciousness that you were male or female. Nothing short of disaster could ever shake that conviction. . . ”40 Freudian “natural law” dictated that anatomy was destiny, and Erik Erikson, a more contemporary Freudian, polished this“simplism” into an inner- and outer-space analogy, where the “inner” sexual apparatus of the female and the “outer”sexual apparatus of the male were seen to be the prime determinants of feminine “inner”-directed and masculine“ outer’’-directed behavior. However, Money has reversed the classical “ anatomy is destiny” theory into a “ neonatural law” theory of social determinism. He continues:“Once a sex distinction has worked or been pressured intothe nuclear core of your gender schema, to dislodge it is to threaten you as an individual with destruction. The gate is as firmly locked there as it is on your chromosomes and gonads. ”41 Obviously, no one would deny that socialization is a very powerful factor, but to make it deterministic, as Money does, is to make it absolute and immutable. He and his associates have constructed a pseudometaphysics, which derives its “natural” value from societal processes instead of from classical “nature. ” In effect, they have created a new theory of the social “nature” of sex-role differences that is just as immutable as older biological natural law theories.Money’s dismissal of the importance of social influence after the stage of early childhood demonstrates that he has not looked seriously at authors who write about socialization. As Berger and Luckmann point out: “Everything that has been said so far on socialization implies the possibility that subjective reality can be transformed. To be in society already entails an ongoing process of modification of subjective reality. ” 42 Money’s response to this would probably be that while relative transformations are possible the“core” of one’s gender identity schema is “locked tight. ”However, as Berger and Luckmann state: “there are instances of transformation that appear total if compared with lesser modifications. ” 43 They refer to such transformation as “alterations, ” and assert that they “radically reassign reality accents. ”The “ radical reassignment of reality accents” of “core gender identity” has become a lived reality in the past and present history of feminism. However, Money does not allow this history or its consequences to affect his “core gender identity” theories and their immutability. If women had not been able to alter the nuclear “core” of our gender programming, we would not be doing many of the things that we are. One of the primary tenets of the women’s movement has been that so-called gender identity differences are not natural or immutable. And as such, they are amenable to change. However, as Time magazine reported:“ Despite his evidence of the importance of environment inmolding sex roles, Money holds out little hope to feminists that there can be significant breakdown of sex-role stereotypes in the current generation of adults. ”44 What Money does not see is that the hope of feminism is already being realized in feminists themselves, who are living contradictions of everything that Money is saying about the immutability of “ core gender identity. ”Obviously, the theory that “ core” gender identity is“ locked tight” by the age of eighteen months has utmost relevance for causation theories of transsexualism. It enables Money to suggest that transsexual gender identity is possibly fixed at a very early age.FLEXIBLE STEREOTYPESAlthough Money’s final position on gender identity appears to be ethically neutral, it has profound social and ethical consequences, especially with respect to the whole issue of transsexualism. In the last chapter of Sexual Signatures, Money and Tucker begin by stating that the stereotyped differences between the sexes will always remain.They censure both the right and the left for respectively wanting to keep the stereotypes rigidly circumscribed or wanting to abolish them altogether. (Feminists might justifiably wonder which leftist movement has ever wanted to abolish sex-role stereotypes altogether. ) Seemingly, they advocate the via media.Many o f the pioneers maintain th at the stereotyped differences between the sexes should be done away with, and many nonpioneers fear th at relaxing gender stereotypes will do away with all differences and homogenize the sexes. Both groups are tilting at windmills. As long as there is a human race, there almost certainly will be differences between the sexes in sexual behavior, work, and play. 4sWhat they stand for is flexibility. Individuals must “bring more flexibility into the cultural stereotypes so that those who are growing up today need not be handicapped byhaving obsolete sex distinctions driven into the core of their gender schemas by the pressure of stereotypes that are unnecessarily rigid. ”46 Nevertheless, the stereotypes themselves should remain. Abolishing them would violate Money’s canon that socialization is destiny.In Sexual Signatures, Money and Tucker assert: “The healthy society is one that tolerates experimentation with a variety of adaptive responses within its stereotypes. ”The major criticism I would make of this “ adaptive responses” or “flexibility” position, is that a “ flexible stereotype” is a contradiction in terms. Webster’s New Collegiate Dictionary defines stereotype as “to repeat without variation. ” A stereotype that admits a “variety of adaptive responses” within it is no longer a stereotype. A fixed pattern admits no flexibility or else it is no longer fixed. Furthermore, it should also be noted that on a historical level, it is within the nature of stereotypes to give the illusion of flexibility.Interestingly, Money and Tucker state: “People can no more be expected to decode behavior that has been locked into the core of their gender schemas than a Chinese woman whose feet were bound in childhood could be expected to walk naturally. ”48 It would seem that the authors do not realize that stereotypes do mutilate personal development, just as foot-binding mutilated Chinese women’s development. To advocate a flexibility within the range o f stereotypes, yet not do away with the stereotypes completely, is similar to giving a woman whose feet have been bound and mutilated crutches or a chair to be carried in, yet not the ability to completely and freely move about.The language of flexibility is deceiving. On the one hand, it gives Money’s biologism and social determinism the appearance of openness and variability. But, in fact, he makes a hidden and rather subtle ontological assumption that social change cannot affect the core of gender identity and is definitely limited to undefined parameters of “flexibility. ”However, the cannot changes to should not, the ontol-ogy changes to ethics. From the position that adult individuals cannot alter the nuclear core of their gender schemas, Money moves to the stance that “if society or your early environment drove that distinction into the core of your gender schema so that it has become an integral support for your gender identity, society has no right to demand that you drive it out again. ”49 Would Money assert that if “society” has driven racist attitudes into the “core” of one’s identity, it has no right to expect that one should drive them out?Money’s ethics thus boil down to prescribing the continuation of sexist roles, modified in some undefined and arbitrarily “flexible” manner. In fact, the sexist nature of his ethical prescriptions becomes evident in his advice about child-rearing practices.The ideal is for a child to have parents who consistently reciprocate one another in their dealings with that child. Then a five-year-old daughter is able to go through the stage o f rehearsing flirtatious coquetry with her father, while the m other appropriately gives reciprocal directives as to where the limits o f rivalry lie; conversely for boys. This is an incredible piece of sexist advice, advocating some of the worst aspects of sexual stereotypes. Why should a five-year-old girl be encouraged to rehearse “flirtatious coquetry” with her father while her mother stands on the sidelines permitting such behavior within suitable“limits of rivalry”? Once more, little girls are taught to identify with men and men’s ideals of them while, at the same time, learning to see other women as their rivals for male affection.In conclusion, what does this advocacy of stereotyping, albeit “ flexible, ” mean for transsexuals? If people not only“ cannot” but “ should n o t” change their core gender identity, and if “ society has no right” to demand that they do, then transsexualism becomes an adequate and morally right solution to so-called gender identity dissatisfaction and confusion. In this perspective, if one cannot adjust themind to the body, it becomes perfectly reasonable to adjust the body to the mind. Since core gender identity is fixed by age two, in Money’s schema, then the body and not the psyche must be changed.C H A P T E R I I I“M other’sFeminized Phallus ”or Father'sCastrated Femme?T h e t i t l e of this chapter ismeant to suggest the distance between the alleged dominant mothers blamed in the psychological literature for causing transsexualism, and the truly dominating medical/psychiatric fathers who create artificial women (femmes).The distance is great. “Blaming the mother, ” in the psychological literature, which proposes that transsexualism is the result of “too much mother and too little father, ” obscures the real cause of transsexualism—patriarchy and the legions of therapeutic fathers who create transsexuals according to their man-made designs and specifications.This chapter will consider major psychological theories about the causes of transsexualism and suggest a more fundamental cause. It is my contention that all of the causal theories that have been discussed so far accept patriarchal norms of masculinity and femininity. Many psychological theories, for example, measure the transsexuals’ conformity to, and deviation from, these stereotypes during their process of maturing, or they assess family interactions, such as “dominant mother and absent father, ”“mother-son symbiosis, ” only within the context of these same stereotypes. I believe that the First Cause, that which sets other causes of transsexualism in motion (such as family stereotypes and interactions), is a patriarchal society, which generates norms of masculinity and femininity. Uniquely restricted by patriarchy’s definitions of masculinity and femininity, the transsexual becomes body-bound by them and merely rejects one and gravitates toward the other. The sexual organs and the body of the opposite sex come to incarnate the essence of the desired gender identity and role, and thus it is not primarily the body that is desired, but what a female or male body means in this society.According to these psychological theories, if the individual fails to adjust to his native body and role, then she/he should be treated. If all forms of personal and family therapy fail to adjust the would-be transsexual’s mind to the would-be transsexual’s body, then the individual answer is to adjust the transsexual’s body to his mind. In this perspective, hormonal treatment and surgery become a humane and logical solution to the transsexual problem.Meanwhile, the social factors that continue to reinforce transsexualism go “untreated. ” And transsexual treatment and surgery becomes the ultimate “Individual Solution. ”To understand how sexual stereotypes are the First Cause of transsexualism, we should look at how transsexuals think and speak of themselves and how they“prove” they are “real” transsexuals by “passing” as masculine or feminine. In fact, they must prove they are real before they are accepted for treatment. Thus the role of the medical-psychiatric establishment in reinforcing sex-role stereotypes is significant, and one that affects the deepest dimensions of the transsexual issue.PSYCHOLOGY CONSTRUCTS THE CONSTRUCTED FEMALERobert Stoller, a psychoanalyst, has probably done the major work in developing psychological theories about thecauses of transsexualism in a study of nine cases of male-to-constructed-female transsexualism. 1 Here he develops his basic conditioning approach, which he refers to as“mother’s feminized phallus” or what can be more simply phrased as “blaming the m other. ” In summary, Stoller attributes male transsexualism to a classic mother-child relationship that occurs within the context of a disturbed marriage. In the clinical cases as he relates them, the mothers were generally unhappy women, who often in early life wanted to be males themselves, and who in their marriages were dominant and assertive. Indeed, Stoller claims that such mothers suffer from a marked case of classic Freudian penis envy. The child serves the mother as the phallus for which she has supposedly yearned. The child himself does not pass through the “normal” male formative stage of separation from the mother and consequent individuation.Masculinity is not developed in the transsexual boy, and there is no fear of castration (which Freud posited as necessary to developing masculinity). Transsexuals’ fathers were allegedly passive men who were consistently absent from their homes or, if present, were as good as absent.They exerted little influence on their sons and had practically no father-son rapport. Given this state of affairs, the mother turned to her son, for continuing fulfillment, concentrating totally on him and encouraging the boy to identify with her and with her body by constant physical contact (involving continuous holding and touching, carrying and cuddling).According to Stoller, given this extreme mother-son symbiosis, which sometimes lasted into prepubertal years, the boy began to feel that he was a woman despite the evidence of his senses that he was anatomically male. Having developed a core feminine gender identity in the early years of life, the boy cannot develop, later on, along culturally dictated masculine lines. Stoller sums up his evidence from the clinical case studies in this way: The similarities of the findings are probably beyond coincidence; it appears, as has been noted often before in other males with strong feminine identifications, th at the femininity of these males is theresult of too much mother and too little father. These data do not point to a genetic, hormonal, or other physiological element significantly contributing to the boy’s gender identity.. . . My thesis, to be better tested in the future, is that the degree of femininity that develops in a boy and the forms it takes will vary according to exactly (not approximately) what is done to him in earliest childhood. Stoller goes on to state the importance of searching for“detailed descriptions” of these mother-son relationships.He emphasizes that while there are obviously males who have had strong symbiotic relationships with their mothers in early childhood and who do not emerge as transsexuals, the quality of the symbiotic relationship was quite different in the nontranssexual cases. Here the mother probably did not have the same kind of physical relationship with her male child. And Stoller does relate, “in detail, ” in case study after case study, the physical interactions of mothers and sons—sons who were permitted to sleep with their mothers well into prepuberty, sons who had visual and tactile access to their mothers’ bodies up to a relatively late age, as well as mothers and sons who were continually in each other’s presence in other ways. The fathers of these boys were weak, passive, and distant, and fatherly influence was usually absent in all ways. Most of these marriages were held together in name only. Divorce was rare in transsexual families. However, although parents existed under the same roof, the marriages were sexless and generally emotionally empty.In his latest book, The Transsexual Experiment, Stoller also reveals a study of ten cases of female transsexuals.While there are differences between male and female transsexuals, Stoller again focuses on blaming the mother. The female infant, who lacks feminine graces and is not“cuddly, ” has a mother unable to show any emotional tone due to depression. Again the father is rather passive and has little or no emotional rapport with his wife and child. As a result, the girl is used by both parents as a father-substitute to alleviate the mother’s depression. Her acting out of masculine characteristics is encouraged byboth parents, and becomes self-perpetuating as a sense of masculine identity.“ Blaming the mother” appears in theories even beyond the psychological realm:Typically, the m other keeps this male infant to herself. She gratifies his wishes instantly whenever possible. She enjoys and encourages actions which keep the child close to her and discourages attem pts to move away. However, as the child grows, the m other may not be able to handle aggressive and active play and directs the male child to quieter activities and to quieter companions, possibly girls. Gradually the child learns th at feminine actions bring a positive response from the m other and other members of the family. These authors go on to state that such actions may even include cross-dressing as a female. They also discuss the absent father syndrome, either in fact or in effect.John Money also cannot avoid the charge of “blaming the mother” in his discussion of transsexualism. He finds that all available evidence on the subject points to the conclusion that transsexualism is directed by “undercover signals from society, usually represented in early postnatal life by the mother. ” While accepting major premises of Stoller’s theory of transsexualism in boys, Richard Green, a past associate of Stoller’s at U. C. L. A., and a former student of John Money’s, puts much less emphasis on certain psychoanalytic concepts, such as the symbolic meaning of the boy to his mother and her own supposed bisexuality.Green gives more weight to peer-group interaction. Thus his work, while certainly being primarily psychological, acknowledges socialization factors outside of the intrafamily sphere. “ Blaming the m other, ” however, is a part of Green’s theorizing. He agrees with Stoller that a mother’s response, physical contact, perceptions, and time given to her son often contribute to transsexual development. The father again is an absent figure and, as the son’s feminine proclivities develop, alienation between father and mother increases. The mother continues to encourage her son’s cross-dressing while the emotional distance between father and son widens.Green is also sympathetic to biological causes. “Currently the most provocative signpost is the linkage between prenatal male hormone levels and postnatal masculine activity. ”6 However, as we noted in examining Money’s work, biological and psychological theories go well together, and it is often difficult to decide where one leaves off and the other picks up.Green takes a more positive approach in the questions he poses at the end of Sexual Identity Conflict in Children and Adults. “What if the social consequences of evolving in an atypical lifestyle were radically modified? Would the motivation for sex-change surgery be as great for males if the society were fully tolerant of their deviant sexuality? ” 7 He continues: A question to be answered though, would be the degree to which the desire for genital change in an adult male is derived secondarily from social sanctions against homosexuality or femininity, or springs primarily from a female identity. If from the former, requests for surgery might be related to the extent to which the culture becomes more tolerant. These questions, however, when combined with his former psychological hypotheses, seem contradictory. Significantly, they are raised in question form and parenthetically, whereas “blaming the mother, ” peer interaction, and hormonal factors all seem to have the full force of facts.The syndrome of “blaming the mother” in each of these theories raises some fundamental critical responses. Most important, each of these theories of “blaming the mother”is indicative of a fundamental reversal. The biological and psychological theorists blame the mother for both female and male transsexualism. Neither asks who is actually transforming transsexual bodies into the desired sex and instructing them in the rudiments of cultural femininity and masculinity. The irony is that mothers are blamed, yet it is transsexual “father figures” (the fathers of the psychiatric and medical domains) who are performing the operations and coaching into roles. One way of perceiving this reversal is to view such “ fathers”as “male mothers”who see themselves redeeming the biological mothers’ defective handiwork, whether that defective process is regarded as biological (failing to give enough of the right hormone or giving too much of the wrong hormone in utero), or as psychological (failing to rear the child correctly). * The inherent irony here is that the mother is blamed when in fact it is the psychological and medical fathers who are the omnipresent agents of transsexualism.The agency of such medical and psychological fathers is much more certain and dominating than the doubtful and psychologized role of the supposed dominant mother.Without them, transsexualism would not be a reality. Are we to suppose that it is mainly the mother who is concerned with the stereotypical behavior of the child? All of these theorists who blame the mother for the transsexual behavior of their children do not even allude to studies indicating that fathers are usually more concerned with encouraging sex-typing than are mothers. These studies suggest that fathers play a very significant role in the gender identity development of their child, perhaps in the case of the transsexual even coercing the boy into masculine behavior which the child rejects because such behavior has been forced upon him.Three other theories should be noted concerning the causes of transsexualism. N. Lukianovicz, like Stoller, raises the whole issue of castration anxiety as one possible cause of transsexualism. But, in contrast to Stoller, he maintains that the transsexual does possess castration fear.The male transsexual attempts to overcome the anxiety*“ Male m o th erin g , ” discussed in C hapter I, is a very ancient and fam iliar them e in the history of patriarchal civilization in which men have attem p ted , in various ways, to supplant the role of w om en in m othering. There are religious male m others who give spiritual rebirth in baptism ; the Dr. Spocks and o th er child-rearing specialists who tell w om en the best means of bringing up their children; the male obstetricians who to o k over the function o f m idw ifery and“ deliver” the child into existence; and m ore recently the te ch n o cratic progenitors who are attem p tin g to bring hum an life into existence through genetic technology w ith little or no female instrum entality.of castration by creating an imaginary “phallic woman”and subsequently identifying with and becoming her. The fantasy of a “ phallic woman” is a substitute for phallic exhibition, which is inhibited by castration anxiety. Another psychoanalytic explanation gives weight to separation anxiety. Transsexuals develop this anxiety early in life, before “ object differentiation” occurs.To alleviate this anxiety, the child resorts to a fantasy o f symbiotic fusion with the mother. In this way, m other and child become one and the danger of separation is nullified. We believe this reparative fantasy to be the psychodynamic basis for transsexualism in the male, and the transsexual phenomena can be understood clinically as attem pts to ward off any threats to the psychic fusion with the m other. In this interpretation, the transsexual literally becomes the mother. To sustain this fantasy, he attempts to reverse his anatomical sex. Ovesey and Person cite clinical evidence to support this causal hypothesis and distinguish between a transsexual’s first experience of cross-dressing as opposed to a transvestite’s. The transvestite often experiences sexual excitement in cross-dressing. For the transsexual, however, the mother’s clothes “ are a symbolic representation of the pregenital mother. Wearing them, he re-establishes the early symbiotic relationship with her. It is no surprise, therefore, that a frequent adult transsexual fantasy is of mothering, particularly mothering a girl child. ”Finally, we consider the psychological hypothesis of Henry Guze, who speaks of “ experience deprivation” during critical periods of childhood development. Guze thinks that, as a rule, boys will psychologically develop in a feminine direction unless a male model is present in some way.“ Thus a boy child is superficially more like a girl child or a woman until he reaches pubescence. ” 13 (Note the parallel here to prenatal biological male differentiation, in the sense that all fetuses are originally female until androgen activates male morphological development. ) Guze seems to be saying that nature’s disposition is to orient genetic males in a female behavioral direction until male role model influence is added. Thus, as Guze reiterates, “I should like tohypothesize that during the periods when a boy child is least developed in the masculine direction, he needs both contact and identification with a male in a manner that is not exploitative. ”14 The same holds true for girl children, except that girls escape the severe gender problems, on the whole, that occur in the male.In examining the various theories of psychological causation, one factor becomes very evident. All of them measure the degree of conformity to culturally defined norms of masculinity and femininity. In most of these theories, male transsexuals who were feminized and failed to become masculine were assessed by prevailing norms of masculinity and femininity. The psychological literature obviously regards this as not only deviant behavior but as undesirable for “healthy” male development. A negative judgment is attached to so-called feminine qualities expressed by boys and men. The stereotypes, the cultural norms of masculinity and femininity themselves, are never criticized.If the stereotypes themselves are not confronted but are only frowned upon when acted out by persons of the“wrong” sex, then the origins of transsexualism will be individualized and psychologized. What will go unexamined is patriarchy’s norms of masculinity and femininity and how these norms, if allowed to contain persons within such rigid boundaries, may generate such a phenomenon as transsexualism.TRANSSEXUALISM AND SEX-ROLE STEREOTYPESIt is important to examine the web of patriarchally prescribed stereotypes that surround all facets of the transsexual issue: the way transsexuals speak about themselves and the reasons they give for wanting surgery; the accounts of family interaction; the gender identity clinic requirements that prescribe “passing” as masculine or feminine to “prove” transsexual status; psychological advice and treatment of adjudged child transsexuals; and testimony from acknowledged “experts” in the field, regarding the stereotypical behavior of transsexuals.How transsexuals think and speak of themselves is very revealing. In preparation for this writing, I personally interviewed a sampling of fifteen transsexuals. In the interviews, thirteen of which were with pre- and postoperative male-to-constructed-female transsexuals, I consistently asked why they wanted to be women. How, in other words, did they define themselves as female? Most of the transsexuals responded in terms of the classic feminine stereotype. Some wanted to be women because all their lives they had “ felt” they were women trapped in men’s bodies. One expressed this “feeling” in terms of “absolute knowledge” as opposed to mere desire. More specifically, many transsexuals said they viewed themselves as passive, nurturing, emotional, intuitive, and the like. Very often, many expressed a preference for female dress and make-up.Others saw their feminine identification in terms of feminine occupations: housework, secretarial, and stewardess work. Some expressed feminine identification in terms of marriage and motherhood—wanting to “ meet the right man, ” “have him take care of me, ” “ adopt kids, ” and“bring them up. ” One expressed very definite views on child-rearing that were quite ironic in this context: “ I would definitely teach my kids that boys should be boys and girls should be girls. ”These kinds of overt stereotyped statements have been reiterated by many of the more well-known transsexuals (e. g., Jan Morris, Christine Jorgensen) who have been interviewed on the talk shows and in other media. Allen Rays-don, in the process of undergoing hormonal treatment in preparation for surgery, states: “When I was a child, all I could think about was the [girls’] clothes and parties and things and that I didn’t like sports and fighting and things like that. ” He added that women are more emotional and sensitive; men are more cold and insensitive.Men play more active roles usually, he said, and called himself passive. 15 Paula, formerly Paul, Grossman has sketched a similar portrait of himself. Previously married and the father of three children, Grossman recently lost a test case in the New Jersey courts to postoperativelyretain his former public-school teaching status. According to a newspaper reporter:In many ways—and in the traditional sense of the word—Paula Grossman is extremely feminine. She is proud of her impressive bustline, a result of her monthly hormone shots. She has her hair done regularly at a beauty shop, and wears bright red lipstick and matching nail polish. (“ I only wear eye-shadow at night. ” ) She prefers dark sleeveless blouses with a single strand o f pearls worn with tailored skirts. Her favorite shoes are Mary Janes, size 13. Sexual objectification becomes a recurring theme also in the interviews and case studies. A male prisoner who requested a sex-change operation revealed his stereotype of femininity to be at this level: “I have this problem, like all women do. I flirt a lot. ” 17 For others, prostitution becomes related to their new feminine status. Many, in order to pay the medical costs, turn to this source of income. *“ Frequently, they cannot get jobs as women, or cannot keep them; the street becomes the breadwinner, and principal place of social contact. ” 18 Several transsexuals in my own survey were prostitutes both before as well as after their operations.It is significant that very little of the transsexual literature has highlighted the stereotyping problem as either causally or therapeutically important. Very little notice has been paid to the fact that most transsexuals conform more to the feminine role than even the most feminine of natural-born women. One of the few exceptions to this is Thomas Kando’s study, Sex Change: The Achievement o f Gender Identity among Feminized Transsexuals.THOMAS KANDO’S STUDY OF SEX CHANGEThomas Kando investigated seventeen postoperative male-to-constructed-female transsexuals who had received sur-♦R ecently a m ale-to-constructed-fem ale transsexual charged w ith p ro stitu tio n had “ h e r” case dismissed in New Orleans. It was found th a t “ sh e ” had been a m an and, in Louisiana, only a natural-born w om an can be convicted o f p ro stitu tio n . (Ms., January 1978, p. 2 1 . )gery at the University of Minnesota Gender Services. His methods included open-ended interviews, structured questionnaires formally submitted and conducted in the hospital offices, and participant observation of the Minneapolis transsexual subculture, which included visits to bars, stripjoints, and nightclubs, “ first to contact transsexuals known to circulate or to work there, later to fraternize and observe the milieu. ” 19 Kando also visited several transsexuals at home and thus became acquainted with their family contexts.In contrast to the psychological and biological theorists, Kando spotlights the social problem immediately. “ Unlike the feminists who argue that the social structure is unjust with respect to women and therefore needs reform, transsexuals decide to alter their own physical sex in order to legitimately conform to cultural expectations” (p. 5). He affirms that transsexuals aim primarily to achieve the desired sex roles and not merely the anatomy of the opposite sex. In answer to the question of what is the “ultimate criterion of being a woman, ” transsexuals emphasized mostly “ social-psychological” criteria. (Ten out of seventeen mentioned such things as “being attracted to men, ”“being loved and needed by the family, ” and “behaving like a woman. ” ) It is significant here that most of the transsexuals questioned did not see biological criteria, that is, the female organs themselves, as ultimate reasons for changing sex.In examining the attitudes of these seventeen transsexuals, Kando compared them with “normal” females and males. Using such a comparison, he found that transsexuals are more what the culture expects women to be than are those who were bom female. Kando measured this cultural conformity by using questionnaires that included a “ masculinity-femininity” scale. The transsexuals were questioned in several areas:1.Attitudes toward cultural definitions o f masculinity and femininity. Certain questions measured the transsexuals’ endorsement of society’s dominant sex and gender norms. Male, females, and transsexuals were asked to agreeor disagree with normative statements such as: “ Ultimately, a woman should submit to her husband’s decisions. ” Here, Kando found that transsexuals were more conservative in their support of traditional sex-role ascriptions than either the men or the women (pp. 22-24).2. Role strain. Transsexuals were asked about the conflict between the sex roles one is expected to play in society and the roles one is most willing and most able to play. Again, transsexuals experience very little role strain with respect to sex roles. In comparison, Kando noted that natural-born women experienced great role strain in relation to the cultural demands placed on them. Men experienced very little role strain. Thus although transsexuals acted out a feminine stereotype that was more feminine than most women, they were more like men in not experiencing much role strain.These are interesting observations when compared with female-to-constructed-male transsexuals. Although female-to-constructed-male transsexuals conformed to many aspects of the masculine stereotype (in childhood they had no girlish interests, were “tomboys, ” etc. ), a study of five female-to-constructed-male transsexuals revealed some significant data. Money and Brennan found that,“as compared to normal males, only two patients obtained an average rating for masculinity. The other three were rated less malelike in their responses than the normal male. ”20 Although this writer interviewed only two fe-male-to-constructed-male transsexuals, my assessment was that they were much less masculine than were the male-to-constructed-females feminine. Since roles have been male-created, and evidence points to the fact that men are relatively comfortable in their self-created masculine roles, then one would expect that male-to-con-structed-female transsexuals would experience little role strain.A person experiences role strain only if she or he has a self that is separate from the role. Put differently, role strain can be a healthy phenomenon. Using Peter Berger’s definition of alienation as “ the process whereby the dia-lectical relationship between the individual and his world is lost to consciousness, ”21 we might say that men and male-to-constructed-female transsexuals are most alienated.They become the role, and in so doing lose their individuality and self-definition. Berger’s use of the word alienation, of course, is different from that of some existentialists who regard alienation as a basic split with the norms and mores of a culture. However, Berger’s definition seems more adequate in understanding the deeper meaning of alienation—that is, “the individual ‘forgets’that this world was and continues to be coproduced by him. ”22 Women have not been so quick to “ forget” that society has been created by men, and it is noteworthy that female-to-constructed-male transsexuals have also had a difficult time “ forgetting, ” at least to some extent. A sampling of some of the statements of Kando’s interviewees bears out the strong role conformity of male-to-constructed-female transsexuals.Elizabeth: “I feel that everything should be distinctly masculine or feminine. My boy friend has to look like a real man. ”Elinor: “The ultimate criterion of being a woman is being a good wife, being able to make a man happy. ”Maryjo: “I feel that a man should make more than a woman! ” (pp. 24-26).This latter statement contradicted many of my own interviews where the “ equal pay for equal work” ethic was generally subscribed to, not for any feminist reasons but because of the economic straits in which many transsexuals found themselves. Two transsexuals in my survey, R. and S., were willing to join “women’s lib” only to this point. However, many of the transsexuals in Kando’s sample seemingly would not even go this far in deviating from traditional feminine norms. Jane, for example, didn’t want women to be in business at all. “Woman has no business being in business, unless there is something wrong with her.. . . Men should be the leaders”(P. 25).Kando makes the important point also that, for transsexuals, most feminine socialization is anticipatory. Little postoperative coaching into feminine mannerisms and etiquette is required. One transsexual in Kando’s study passed so effectively as a female that even “her” husband did not know. Not even the sex act betrayed “her” true identity (p. 41).An occupational breakdown of Kando’s sample revealed that among seventeen transsexuals interviewed, four proudly proclaimed being housewives and nothing but housewives. Of those who worked outside the home, most had stereotypical feminine jobs: secretaries (three), waitress (one), dancers (four), hairdressers or beauticians (two), actresses (two), university-affiliated research scientist (one).As John Money has admitted: “Most transsexuals embrace the stereotype of their identity, even a person as sophisticated as Jan Morris. ”24 Transsexuals “cling to the conventional stereotypes; they seek only the right to exchange one stereotype for the other. ” 25 Yet, as we have seen, Money does not follow through on this insight. He continues to encourage transsexual role behavior, which requires preoperative transsexuals to “pass” as feminine before they can be admitted for surgery.Kando has evolved a typology of transsexuals that breaks down into four categories: housewife type (overwhelming orientation to straight, middle-class values and living); show business type (includes strippers, dancers, prostitutes); aspiring housewife type; and career woman type. My own data, as well as that of others, supports this breakdown.The three factors most important to the transsexuals in Kando’s study were marriage, nonemployment, and“ passing. ” All male-to-constructed-female transsexuals shared middle-class ambitions as well as exhibitionistic tendencies. These findings confirmed my own interview data, particularly the factor of exhibitionism. Those male-to-constructed-female transsexuals I interviewed were only too happy to talk with me about all of the detailsof their transsexual odyssey, including a live demonstration of the results of surgery. This exhibitionism was in direct contrast to female-to-constructed-male transsexuals whom I contacted—who did not want to talk about their experiences, even in confidence (hence the inclusion of only two female-to-constructed-male transsexuals in my own interviewing).Most of the transsexuals perceived their sexual relationships (even preoperatively) as heterosexual. One transsexual, Sally, phrased this in rather direct language. “I hate homos! I never wanted sex with them. I had homosexual affairs in grade school and in high school, but only with normals. ” As Kando summarizes, “ transsexuals are reactionary, moving back toward the core-culture rather than away from it. They are the Uncle Toms of the sexual revolution. With these individuals, the dialectic of social change comes full circle and the position of greatest deviance becomes that of greatest conformity” (p. 145).Thus far, I have noted overt acting out of stereotyped behavior by transsexuals. Kando’s study, however, examines other not-so-commonly noted aspects of sex-role socialization and patriarchal values. For one thing, Kando noted transsexuals’ attitudes toward women and men.Sally, for one, expressed a dislike toward women that was not expressed toward men. “Women. . . are more fearful of us than men. They fear that we’ll be able to please a man better than they would, since we were men ourselves”(p. 41). Both male-to-constructed-females and female-to-constructed-male transsexuals strongly identify with men; this is one of the major similarities between both groups.A recent article on transsexualism in the Boston Phoenix quoted a female-to-constructed-male transsexual who, in speaking of “his” preoperative life as a woman said:“ I had no hostilities toward men. I liked men—99% of my friends were men. ”Some of the transsexuals that Kando interviewed felt also that women were more intolerant of them than men.Why women tend to be less tolerant of the transsexual phenomenon is an interesting question. It is my belief thatthis is because more women than men perceive the destructiveness that is inherent in sex-conversion procedures.Having experienced on an everyday existential level the destructive elements of sex-role stereotyping in a patriarchal society, many women perceive that transsexualism does nothing to alter this society but merely reinforces it.Robin Morgan, in her speech to the Lesbian Conference in Los Angeles in 1973, addressed herself to this issue in responding to transsexual intrusion into the conference.“If transvestite or transsexual males are oppressed, then let them band together and organize against that oppression, instead of leeching off women who have spent entire lives as women in women’s bodies. ”27 Such a critique, of course, proceeds from a feminist perspective. However, what is important to note here is that what many transsexuals are saying, in stating that women are less tolerant of them than men, is that many women who probably would not call themselves feminists have an instinctual understanding of the destructiveness of transsexualism.Another reason transsexuals identify strongly with men may be because it is men who have been helpful to transsexuals in their attempts to cross-sex. For the most part, these men were what Kando called “professional coaches. ”All of them—priests, counselors, psychiatrists, psychologists, M. D. s, surgeons—had played a professional role in the transsexual’s sex passage, “ not only when they sought out the operation but also at the earlier stages of their alienation” (p. 101).“ Blaming the mother” also functions to identify transsexuals with men. In noting that many of the transsexuals blamed others for what had happened to them, Kando states that the mother was by far the most frequent target.Many have worked out an etiology for their gender condition, often borrowing vulgarized psychoanalytic motives that stress faulty childhood socialization, particularly the alleged unresolved Oedipal relationship. The m other may then alternatively be described as rejecting or overly protective, as either too feminine or too masculine. The main point is th at she is given an im portant role in the sad series o f events th at lead to transsexualism. However, Kando also points out the contradiction between this “constructed etiology” of one’s transsexualism and the insistence that one has always been a “woman. ” This repetition of “sad tale” accounts only reveals that transsexuals do, in fact, consider themselves victims of faulty socialization and not healthy women who need nothing but corrective surgery. There is, however, one major shortcoming in Kando’s study. It is not clear that Kando recognizes the significance of his own findings. While he perceives that transsexuals incarnate role-defined behavior and subscribe to cultural stereotypes, he never makes clear that these same normative roles and stereotypes generate transsexualism to begin with.TRANSSEXUAL REARRANGEMENTS OF THE STEREOTYPES: JAN MORRIS AND OTHERSNot all transsexuals reveal their acceptance of stereotypical roles and behavior in the same obvious way as these examples. Some transsexuals, for example, deny identification with the stereotypes on a verbal level but their actions or subsequent contradictory statements betray them.Perhaps the most publicized version of this kind of contradictory evidence is the Jan Morris case. Morris denies the stereotypes, yet, on the other hand, lives them out.Morris also deviates from most transsexual accounts in that he found the masculine role exhilarating before he was transsexed. As a top correspondent for The London Times, Jan, then James, Morris accompanied the Mt. Everest climbing team and scooped the story. He describes that experience in a remarkable variation on the theme of“anatomy is destiny. ”There is no hardship to it, for it is not imposed upon him. He is the m aster.. . . It is this feeling o f unfluctuating control, I think, that women cannot share, and it springs of course not from the intellect or the personality, nor even so much from upbringing, b ut specifically from the body-----I look back to those moments of suprememale fitness as one remembers champagne or a morning swim.. . .I was brilliant with my knowledge of the event, brilliant with muscular tautness, brilliant with conceit, brilliant with awareness of the subterfuge, amounting very nearly to dishonesty, by which I hoped to have deceived my competitors and scooped the w o rld . . . . I never mind the swagger of young men. It is their right to swank, and I know the sensation. 30 (Italics mine. ) What such words basically illustrate is the contradiction between Morris’s claim that he was always a woman, and his quite overt revelling in his male body and masculinity.By the same token, if “ women cannot share” such feelings of “unfluctuating control, ” then how is it that Morris who claimed to have always been a woman—who had “no doubt about my gender since that moment of self-realization beneath the piano, ” while listening to his mother play Sibelius—could have experienced the sensations of“supreme male fitness, ” “muscular tautness, ” and the swank and swagger of young men?Henry Guze’s insight may be of some interest here. He notes that the male-to-constructed-female transsexual in some ways puts masculinity on a pedestal. In doing so, he responds as if he were unworthy of this esteemed role.Since he feels he does not really fit the cultured concept of a male, a concept he fears but also loves and admires, he must be a female. I would add to this that he must be a female in order to participate in what is basically a male, heterosexual culture, and that sex-conversion suigery is his only entrance into this world that he basically loves and admires but doesn’t totally fit into as a man. This also explains his repugnance against homosexuality, which would prohibit his fitting into the “ straight” world. Furthermore, in order to identify completely with this world, he must identify with everything that men have defined this world to be, among which is the gender identity and role behavior of a woman. Thus Rebecca West, in her review of Morris’s Conundrum, notes that the author sounds not like a woman, but like a man’s idea of a woman. And, of course, this is what is basic to the whole cultural stereo­type of femininity itself; that is, it is a male-imposed definition of femaleness. *After describing the heights to which masculinity can soar, almost in the very next paragraph, Dr. Jekyll (James) becomes Ms. Hyde (Jan). It is, of course, somewhat confusing to read in Conundrum that it was this very putting of one’s masculinity to the test that deepened Morris’s desire for sex transformation. With all the fervor used to espouse the masculine, he now espouses the feminine.“Her frailty is her strength, her inferiority is her privilege”(pp. 167-68). Thus in one surgical stroke, Morris accepts the woman-on-a-pedestal myth. “ She” extolls eternal womanhood in the same way “she” extolls “male swank and swagger. ” Now it seems only “ common sense” to want to be a woman rather than a man. Not only does“ she” like being a woman, but “she” likes all of the proclaimed “benefits” of womanhood. “ I like being a woman, but I mean a woman. I like having my suitcase carried.. . .I like gossiping with the lady upstairs.. . . And yes, I like to be liked by men. ” “ Her” first experience of “ being liked” by a man was in a London taxi cab where the driver “boldly” kissed her“ roughly and not at all disagreeably on the lips, ” after which he said, “ There’s a good girl, ” and “ patted her bottom . ” “ She” loved it because it gave “her” a first experience of what it was to be loved and “cherished” by a man as a woman.♦Zelda Suplee, in the same personal interview cited earlier, had an interesting insight, which applies in this context. In trying to explain to me why m ale-to-constructed-fem ale transsexuals talk to the p oint of exhibitionism a bout their transsexual odyssey, and female-to-con-structed-m ale transsexuals seldom grant interviews or w ant to talk about their sex changes, she noted the following. Male-to-con-structed-fem ale transsexuals “ go d ow n” on the social scale when they become women. They basically realize this and thus constantly talk a bout their new status and the journey involved. Such talk is em otional com pensation for the change downward. To carry this a bit further, constant extolling of the feminine stereotype is one more self-validating act th a t confirm s th a t transsexuals “ fit in ” to a male world th a t has constructed these stereotypes.I’m 4 7 . 1 think most women of my age, if they ’re honest, really accept the idea of helping men, and of being cherished by them.I’ve always had that feeling. If I could have my life over I suppose I would have been happiest being someone’s second-in-command.Lieutenant to a really great man—th a t’s my idea of happiness. This from the man who scaled Mt. Everest and basked in the glory, competition, and vigor of stereotyped masculinity. On the other hand, there is no real contradiction here, because if one finds one’s identity in stereotypical behavior, it is very logical to switch from one stereotype to the other.As a final apparent contradiction, Morris adds a note of disdain for those who would treat women as inferior.Here, Morris claims to be a “militant feminist. ”I have seen life from both sides, and I know what prejudice survives.I know th at by the very fact of my womanhood. . . I am treated in many petty situations as a second-class citizen—not because I lack brains, or experience, or character, but purely because I wear the body of a woman. Yet this feminist sentiment is rare in this book, for again, in the very next paragraph, Morris admits to frankly enjoying the compensations for being thought inferior—that is,“the small courtesies men now pay me, the standing up or the opening of doors, which really do give one a cherished or protected feeling” (p. 178). What Morris never seems to recognize is that the “second-class citizenship, ”the inferior position in which women are put by men, is the logical consequence of their acceptance of femininity as a stereotype and mode of relating.Another way of viewing Morris’s acceptance and seemingly contradictory extolling of both stereotypes is to say that Morris squeezed out of his male status all the vigor of young manhood. However, at the age of forty-seven—in the decline of his male vigor—he latched on to the status of a woman. Since women are often more vigorous when they are older and the cultural pressures have subsided, Morris captures “the best of both worlds, ” so to speak. Transsexualism thus allows him to fully exploit both stereotypes.Furthermore, what Morris and other transsexuals ex-hibit in their acceptance of both identity and role artifacts is not unique to transsexual males. This psychology of acceptance has been noted in other male contexts. For example, Susan Brownmiller in her ground-breaking work, Against Our Will: Men, Women, and Rape, cites rape in male prisons as a means of transforming tough and masculine men into what are called “ gal-boys. ”34 Brownmiller, in her section on male rape in prison, gives us one more example of how the change from one role to another is managed in an astonishingly brief time.Precisely what Morris and other transsexuals depict, in a most graphic way, is the easy replacement of one role by the other. Ernest Becker made the important observation that the sadistic and masochistic postures can be easily interchanged because they are “terms which describe one and the same thing: weakness and felt limitation in oneself; sharp duality of spirit and matter in people. ”35 Likewise, the stereotypes of masculinity and femininity are similarly related. Each can exist, in fact, only in relationship to the other. Neither has anything essentially to do with maleness or femaleness. Because the split is so artifactual and because one cannot exist without the other, it is not difficult to understand how essentially to do with maleness or femaleness. Because the split is so artifactual and because one cannot exist without the other, it is not difficult to understand how a person may easily flip from one to the other. This is precisely what the transsexual does. Instead of moving out of both roles, the transsexual, as Jan Morris expresses so well, substitutes one for the other, under the illusion that she/he is entering into a state that is radically different from the role she/he rejects.Another recent example of the apparent contradictions that Jan Morris represents is described in an article that appeared in the Gay Community News, 36 reporting on three male-to-constructed-female transsexuals—Carolyn, Heather, and Sandy. Most of the questions that were asked in this interview seemed devised to judge the degree of stereotypical identification of the three with dominantfeminine norms. The contradiction in Carolyn’s statements about sex-role stereotyping is fairly obvious. Carolyn identified “herself’ as a feminist. When asked what attributes “ she” would ascribe to a woman, “she” refused to comment on the grounds that it was sexist to limit certain characteristics to a certain sex. However, when pushed further on what is essential to being a woman,“ she” responded with a classic stereotyped answer: “ being willing to be sincere and loving and being able to j u s t. . . give a great d e a l. . . get it back, too. . . care for somebody. . . put together a nice home. ” A second transsexual, Sandy, rejected macho men but then admitted that “ she” desired to be dominated by men in bed. The third, Heather, also considered “herself” a feminist, disliked macho men, considered “ herself” aggressive and independent but on the other hand, was reduced to selling “ her” body to men.My own interview data confirms the same kind of contradictions. R., for example, said “ she” didn’t believe in part of the stereotypic ally feminine role, such as doing housework, wanting kids, staying around the house, but“ she” delighted in wearing profuse make-up and frilly feminine clothes. R. also made the very important point that one of the reasons transsexuals may seem to conform exaggeratedly to the stereotype is that they have to prove to the gender identity clinics that they can pass (i. e., live, work, dress, and be accepted) as women. This, of course, raises the significant issue of to what extent the medical and psychiatric professions contribute, perpetuate, and reinforce the stereotyping syndrome.GENDER IDENTITY CLINICS AND SEX-ROLE STEREOTYPINGThe role of the gender identity clinics and the medical-psychiatric establishment in general in reinforcing sex-role stereotypes is a significant one. Gender identity clinics have been instituted to counsel and to refer for surgery those candidates judged to be “ real” transsexuals. One of the criteria in evaluating “ true” transsexualism at Johns Hopkins, among other clinics, is an assessment ofthe patient’s current sociocultural role status and a consideration of the vocational and economic transformations she/he is making preoperatively.The transsexual cannot have accurate knowledge or feeling of the experience of living and being treated as a member o f the opposite sex until he spends sufficient time living in that ro le .. . . Present data indicate that the length of time spent by the patient in actual experience in the opposite sex role prior to surgery is o f critical importance in our determining the extent of possible future crises. While this requirement is made for supposedly practical and humanitarian reasons, it is important to point out that its social effect is to reinforce conformity to certain cultural norms of masculinity and femininity, since it evaluates everything from dress to body language and to positions in intercourse.At Johns Hopkins, candidates for surgery are required to live out opposite-sex roles for at least six months. Many times, however, a longer period is required, and the average length of time demanded by the clinics is two years. During this time, hormonal treatments usually begin.Harry Benjamin has written that in evaluating the“true” transsexualism of persons who came to him, “ Most important for my own satisfaction and consent to the operation was the belief that a reasonably successful‘woman’ could result. ”38 It is precisely here that doctors’views of the cultural stereotypes are revealed, and transsexual candidates are judged on the basis of what a man’s view of a “real woman” is. Concomitantly, of course, female transsexual candidates are also judged on the basis of what a man’s view of a man should be. But either way, men are perpetuating, judging, and reinforcing the cultural stereotypes. Consider, for example, this account: Marriage is the foremost ambition of a converted transsexual. This is easily understood when one realizes that it is the most complete affirmation of femininity. Prostitution sometimes becomes a tempting substitute for marriage. There is no greater confirmation of femininity than that of having normal heterosexual men again and again accept her as a woman and even pay her for sex services. The sexual objectification of such a perspective is obvious.Or consider the following view of womanhood: “ A true feminine identification, for instance, would result in warm and continued relationships with men, a sense of maternity, interest in caring for children and the capacity to work productively and continuously in female occupations. ”In an advice column to transsexuals that was published in Sexology Magazine, the following was specified: You have to learn how to behave like a woman, how to walk, how to use your hands, how to talk, how to apply make-up, and how to dress.. . . Finally, but highly im portant, how do you know you can make a living as a woman? Have you ever worked as a woman before? I assume that so far, you have only held a man’s job and have drawn a man’s salary. Now you have to learn something entirely new. What this “advice” conveys, aside from confirming the economic oppression of women in a patriarchal society, is uncritical acceptance of this situation—distinguishing a“ man’s job” and earnings from a woman’s, encouraging transsexuals to also accept this distinction, and indeed requiring that they do so before they are recommended for surgery. Moreover, this conformity on the part of the transsexual is often labeled by doctors, psychiatrists, and clinics as “high motivation. ”The Erickson Foundation has published several pamphlets about transsexualism that attempt to inform the public about the subject in a readable and nonacademic way. In one of these, “Counseling the Transsexual, ” five male therapists are interviewed. Dr. R. strongly emphasizes the importance of cross-dressing consistently, getting a job in the new gender role, and seeing how people react to the transsexual in his new gender role.These reactions, positive and negative, are part of his education: they reinforce convincing behavior and stimulate him to modify behavior th at elicits doubtful or negative responses from others.. . . Any conscientious doctor will require th at prior to surgery and while receiving horm one therapy the patient submerge himself in the chosen role for a considerable time—and I would recommendthe full two-year term—until he is absolutely at ease in it, personally and socially. In the same pamphlet, Dr. N. talks about the necessity to explore the gender stereotypes with transsexuals. What it really means to be a man or a woman should be talked about to assure that the transsexual’s conception is not idealized, exaggerated, or distorted in one way or another.Dr. N. indeed recognizes the more superficial aspects of of stereotypical behavior and attempts to dissuade his clients from such. For example, he would ask: Does femininity mean going to the supermarket drenched in perfume and wearing gauzy organdies and make-up an inch thick—now this sounds like a caricature, but very frequently this is the male transsexual’s honest conception of appropriate feminine attire. However, Dr. N’s criticism of the stereotype is merely“skin-deep. ” In the next paragraph, he maintains that“ being a woman” has to do more with “an inner quality, a way of feeling: something less obvious, more intangible. ”The web of stereotyping is woven also on the hospital ward following surgery. A nurse’s account of “The Transsexual Patient After Surgery” advises that nurses should serve as feminine role models for transsexuals and that indeed it may be the demeanor of nurses and their interaction with transsexual patients on the wards that is most important to the future of the postoperative transsexual.The nurse who is comfortable with her feminine role can be a nonthreatening female role model for her p a tie n t.. . . The nurse can offer the way she walks, talks, sits, and dresses as a resource for her patient. Here, of course, we have the ultimate form of sex-role oppression. The woman herself becomes the funnel through which men’s ideas of women are perpetuated and reinforced.What is most disconcerting is the treatment of what is termed childhood transsexualism. Here again, the roles of the doctor, psychiatrist, and gender identity clinics in so­cializing young children—this time to the prescribed role of their anatomical sex—id disturbing. The Gender Identity and Research Program at U. C. L. A. is working with a number of preadolescent boys who are termed “effeminate”and are judged to have many of the childhood patterns described by adult transsexuals. “ Young boys with normal male physical status who manifest feminine gender role behavior and verbalize a cross-gender identity are high risk for later adult sexual adjustment problems, e. g., transsexualism and homosexual conflicts. ”46 The aim of the program and treatment has been to work intensively with the boys and their families so that the boys may come to “voluntarily” accept themselves as masculine. An interim report47 divulged the following treatment measures: (1) Development of a relationship of trust and affection between the male therapist and the boy; (2) heightening parental concern about the problem so that parents begin to disapprove of feminine48 interests and no longer covertly encourage them; (3) Promotion of the father’s or a father-substitute’s involvement in the boy’s life; (4) sensitization of the parents to the interpersonal difficulties which underlie the tendency of the mother to be overly close with the son and for the father to emotionally divorce himself from family activities.The development of the therapist-boy relationship illustrates some of the worst aspects of masculine sex-role socialization. The authors describe a nine-year-old boy whose feminine propensities began to look like a case of boyhood transsexualism. After two years of treatment, the boy began to emulate his male therapist. The first sign of the boy’s conversion to masculinity was his narration of horror stories in which murder and physical aggression took place.Gradually the therapist began to point out to the boy his own fear of aggressiveness, and eventually he became more aggressive. At home, the boy acted this out by striking both his sister and his mother. “ The development was supported by the therapist and the m other’s fears of it were allayed. (If the therapist had not intervened strongly at this point, it is likely that the mother’s covert pressureagainst such behavior would have resulted in the boy again returning to a passive posture. )”Another case is related which involved sessions with the parents. This mainly consisted of coaching the mother into a more passive familial position and assisting the father to emerge as the dominant parent. Prior to therapy mother and son spent great amounts of time together. The father’s business commitments took him away from the family constantly and when he was home, his exhaustion precluded spending time with the boy. Moreover, the authors state that the father’s image was frequently undermined by his wife. The parents, with the help of therapy and a“high motivation” to change and help their son, gradually reversed roles. The father became increasingly active with his son. The mother “channeled her assertiveness” elsewhere.In both of these cases, each boy made a considerable shift in his gender-role orientation to a much more masculine posture. This shift was termed “appropriate gender behavior” by two doctors at Johns Hopkins.Involvement of the parents in the treatment program may be helpful, if one can get their approval and support of appropriate gender behavior by the child, and a continuous effort by the parent of the same sex toward bolstering the correct sex role of the dysfunction-ing child. A focus on the family and the father as dominant is by no means a new idea, of course, nor is it restricted to the field of psychology. The idea of the family as the locus of behavior and the father as instructor was legitimated in the philosophy of ancient Greece. Aristotle, for example, justified the family as a school of conduct and preparation for the larger world, particularly for the state.He saw the father as inspiring his children (and slaves) toward a life of virtue. Indeed, as Ernest Barker remarks,“There are times when Aristotle seems almost ready to think that the father may suffice for the moral instruction of his children. ” 51 In the family counseling sessions and practices of the gender identity clinics, we witness amodem variation on this Aristotelian theme as the transsexual counselors attempt to nip the transsexual condition in the bud. Having faulted the mother for her fostering of the syndrome in her child, transsexual family therapy focuses on the father as the redeemer of his son’s masculinity. Employing father substitutes (male therapists as role models) and encouraging the “real” father to assert his “rightful” fatherly and masculine role in the family, the transsexual experts motivate and educate the developing deviant boy to be culturally masculine.Both the U. C. L. A. and Johns Hopkins professionals defend the use of a male therapist. “By the nature of his authority, prestige, and capacity for providing approval and disapproval, he will be available to the boy as an appropriate object for identification. ” 52 The Johns Hopkins group merely asserted that, “treatment of such a child may be done best by a psychiatrist of the same sex, to serve as an appropriate gender model. ” What is never analyzed is “ appropriate” by whose standards? Such judgments are based on an invisible, yet culturally accepted, standard of sex roles. 53 The therapists/authors cited never once question the “ appropriateness”54 of behavior such as the physical abuse of one’s mother or sister. Indeed many men, as evidenced by the incidence of rape, sexual abuse, wife-beating, and violent crimes, do believe that the perpetuation of violence against women is “ appropriate” behavior. But perhaps, finally, there is a certain uneasiness about the ultimate appropriateness of such behavior:Lest it be misunderstood that we have ascribed an inherently higher value to masculine over feminine behavior, in closing, we will emphasize th at it is rather the deleterious effect on social interaction, with the considerable resultant distress emanating from a crossgender identity which motivates us. Thus, sympathy for the boys’ social unacceptance becomes the professed reason for the advocacy of certain therapeutic measures. This is reminiscent of the disapproval of interracial marriages on the ground that the children ofsuch a union would be socially unacceptable in a white society. More important, the authors do not choose to recognize that while social unacceptance may be given as a reason, the therapeutic context itself conveys to these boys that there is an “inherently higher value” to masculine behavior. Moreover, another “deleterious effect on social interaction” results—the encouragement and perpetration of male violence against women.In conclusion, while the authors admit that society’s attitudes toward cross-gender behavior may be wrong, they create a social-individual split and opt for an individualistic ethic.While privately, one might prefer to modify society’s attitudes toward crossgender behavior, in the consultation room with an unhappy youngster, one feels far more optimistic about modifying the behavior of that one child than the entire society. Thus the task of social change becomes relegated to a “private preference” and has no significant place in therapeutic situations. Changing society’s attitudes becomes secondary in the immediacy of the therapeutic moment.In the final analysis, it is imperative to note that what has been termed an individualist or personalist position does not foster genuine individualism The kind of individualism that transsexual therapy promotes is really an individualism that serves a role-defined society and thus it is more realistic to say that it is an ethic of social conformity. C H A P T E R I VSappho by Surgery:The Transsexually ConstructedLesbian-FeministT r a n s s e x u a l is m ismultifaceted. From all that has been said thus far, it is clear that it raises many of the most complex questions feminism is asking about the origins and manifestations of sexism and sex-role stereotyping.* While regarded by many as an obscure issue that affects a relatively minute proportion of the population, transsexualism poses very important feminist questions. Transsexually constructed lesbian-feminists show yet another face of patriarchy. As the male-to-constructed-female transsexual exhibits the attem pt to possess women in a bodily sense while acting out the images into which men have molded women, the male-to-constructed-female who claims to be a lesbian-feminist attempts to possess women at a deeper level, this time under the guise of challenging rather than conforming to the role and behavior of stereotyped femininity. As♦ For a long tim e, I have been very hesitant ab o u t devoting a ch ap ter o f this b ook to w hat I call th e “ transsexually constructed lesbian-fem inist. ” In the order this b ook was w ritten , it was actually the patriarchy is neither monolithic nor one-dimensional, neither is transsexualism.All men and male-defined realities are not blatantly macho or masculinist. Many indeed are gentle, nurturing, feeling, and sensitive, which, of course, have been the more positive qualities that are associated with stereotypical femininity. In the same way that the so-called androgynous man assumes for himself the role of femininity, the transsexually constructed lesbian-feminist assumes for himself the role and behavior of feminist.The androgynous man and the transsexually constructed lesbian-feminist deceive women in much the same way, for they lure women into believing that they are truly one of us—this time not only one in behavior but one in spirit and conviction.last chapter I wrote. The recent debate and divisiveness th a t the transsexually constructed lesbian-feminist has produced within fem inist circles has convinced me th at, while transsexually constru cted lesbian-feminists may be a small percentage of transsexuals, the issue needs an in-depth discussion am ong feminists.I write this chapter with the full realization th a t feminists look at the issue o f the transsexually constructed lesbian-feminist from the vantage p o in t o f a small com m unity in which transsexuals have been able to be very visible—n o t because there are th a t m any of them , b u t because they im m ediately have center stage. Thus focusing atten tio n on this particular aspect of the transsexual issue may only serve to inflate the issue and their presence all the more. It may also distract atten tio n from the more central questions th a t transsexualism raises and the power of the medical em pire th a t creates transsexualism to begin with.Because the oral and w ritten debate concerning the transsexually constructed lesbian-feminist seems to be increasing o u t of proportion to their actual num bers, I think th a t feminists ought to consider seriously the am ount o f energy and space we wish to give to this discussion. However, if any space should be devoted to this issue, it is in a book th a t purports to be a fem inist analysis of transsexualism.Furtherm ore, m ost o f the com m entary thus far has been lim ited to letters to the editor and editorial com m ents in fem inist papers, as well as a few scattered articles in various journals. Because o f lim ited space, these analyses are necessarily restricted. I would like, therefore, to provide an extensive and intensive analysis o f the issue and to address the deeply m ythic dimensions th a t the transsexually constructed lesbian-feminist represents.CONTRADICTIONS OR CONFIRMATIONS?It is not accidental that most male-to-constructed-female transsexuals who claim to be feminists also claim to be lesbian-feminists. In fact, I don’t know of any transsexually constructed feminists who do not also claim to be lesbians. It is this combination that is extremely important. Lesbian-feminists have spent a great deal of energy in attempting to communicate that the self-definition of lesbian, informed by feminism, is much more than just a sexual choice. It is a total perspective on life in a patriarchal society representing a primal commitment to women on all levels of existence and challenging the bulwark of a sexist society—that is, heterosexism. Thus it is not a mere sexual alternative to men, which is characterized simply by sexually relating to women instead of men, but a way of being in the world that challenges the male possession of women at perhaps its most intimate and sensitive level. In assuming the identity of lesbian-feminist, then, doesn’t the transsexual renounce patriarchal definitions of selfhood and choose to fight sexism on a most fundamental level?First of all, the transsexually constructed lesbian-femi-nist may have renounced femininity but not masculinity and masculinist behavior (despite deceptive appearances).If, as I have noted earlier, femininity and masculinity are different sides of the same coin, thus making it quite understandable how one could flip from one to the other, then it is important to understand that the transsexually constructed lesbian-feminist, while not exhibiting a feminine identity and role, still exhibits its obverse side—stereotypical masculinity. Thus the assumption that he has renounced patriarchal definitions of selfhood is dubious.Masculine behavior is notably obtrusive. It is significant that transsexually constructed lesbian-feminists have inserted themselves into the positions of importance and/or performance in the feminist community. The controversy in the summer of 1977 surrounding Sandy Stone, thetranssexual sound engineer for Olivia Records, an “ allwomen” recording company, illustrates this well. Stone is not only crucial to the Olivia enterprise but plays a very dominant role there. 1 The national reputation and visibility he achieved in the aftermath of the Olivia controversy is comparable, in feminist circles, to that attained by Renee Richards in the wake of the Tennis Week Open.This only serves to enhance his previously dominant role and to divide women, as men frequently do, when they make their presence necessary and vital to women. Having produced such divisiveness, one would think that if Stone’s commitment to and identification with women were genuinely woman-centered, he would have removed himself from Olivia and assumed some responsibility for the divisiveness. In Boston, a transsexual named Christy Barsky has worked himself into a similar dominant position, this time coaching a women’s softball team, coordinating a conference on women and violence, staffing a women’s center, and performing musically at various all-women places. Thus, like Stone, he exhibits a high degree of visibility and also divides women, in the name of lesbian-feminism.Pat Hynes has suggested that there is only an apparent similarity between a strong lesbian, woman-identified self and a transsexual who fashions himself in a lesbian-feminist image. 2 With the latter, his masculinity comes through, although it may not be recognized as such. Hynes especially points to the body language of transsexuals where she notes subtle but perceptible differences between, for example, the way lesbians interact with other women and the way transsexuals interact with women. One specific example of this is the way a transsexual walked into a women’s restaurant with his arms around two women, one on each side, with the possessive encompassing that is characteristically masculine.Mary Daly in explaining why this difference is perceptible points out that the transsexually constructed lesbian-feminist is able to deceptively act out the part of lesbian-feminist because he is a man with a man’s history; that is,he is free of many of the residues of self-hatred, self-depre-ciation, and self-contradiction that attend the history of women who are bom with female bodies—all of which is communicated both subtly and not so subtly in gestures, body language, and the like. 3 Thus it is precisely because the transsexually constructed lesbian-feminist is a man, and not a woman encumbered by the scars of patriarchy that are unique to a woman’s personal and social history that he can play our parts so convincingly and apparently better than we can play them ourselves. However, in the final analysis, he can only play the part, although the part may at times seem as, or more, plausible than the real woman (as is also the case with the male-to-constructed-female transsexual who appears more feminine than most feminine women).What is also typically masculine in the case of the transsexually constructed lesbian-feminist is the appropriation of women’s minds, convictions of feminism, and sexuality.One of the definitions of male, as related in Webster’s, is“designed for fitting into a corresponding hollow part. ”This, of course, means much more than the literal signification of heterosexual intercourse. It can be taken to mean that men have been very adept at penetrating all of women’s “hollow” spaces, at filling up the gaps, and of sliding into the interstices. Obviously, women who are in the process of moving out of patriarchal institutions, consciousness, and modes of living are very vulnerable and have gaps. I would imagine that it would be difficult, for example, for Olivia Records to find a female sound engineer and that such a person would be absolutely necessary to the survival of Olivia. But it would have been far more honest if Olivia had acknowledged the maleness of Sandy Stone and perhaps the necessity, at the time, to employ a man in this role. As one woman wrote of Sandy Stone and the Olivia controversy: “ I feel raped when Olivia passes off Sandy, a transsexual, as a real woman. After all his male privilege, is he going to cash in on lesbian feminist culture too? ”Rape, of course, is a masculinist violation of bodily in-tegrity. All transsexuals rape women’s bodies by reducing the real female form to an artifact, appropriating this body for themselves. However, the transsexually constructed lesbian-feminist violates women’s sexuality and spirit, as well. Rape, although it is usually done by force, can also be accomplished by deception. It is significant that in the case of the transsexually constructed lesbian-feminist, often he is able to gain entrance and a dominant position in women’s spaces because the women involved do not know he is a transsexual and he just does not happen to mention it.The question of deception must also be raised in the context of how transsexuals who claim to be lesbian-feminists obtained surgery in the first place. Since all transsexuals have to “pass” as feminine in order to qualify for surgery, so-called lesbian-feminist transsexuals either had to lie to the therapists and doctors, or they had a conversion experience after surgery. 5 I am highly dubious of such conversions, and the other alternative, deception, raises serious problems, of course.Deception reaches a tragic point for all concerned if transsexuals become lesbian-feminists because they regret what they have done and cannot back off from the effects of irreversible surgery (for example, castration). Thus they revert to masculinity (but not male body appearance) by becoming the man within the woman, and more, within the women’s community, getting back their maleness in a most insidious way by seducing the spirits and the sexuality of women who do not relate to men.Because transsexuals have lost their physical “members”does not mean that they have lost their ability to penetrate women—women’s mind, women’s space, women’s sexuality. Transsexuals merely cut off the most obvious means of invading women so that they seem noninvasive.However, as Mary Daly has remarked, in the case of the transsexually constructed lesbian-feminists their whole presence becomes a “ member” invading women’s presence and dividing us once more from each other. Furthermore, the deceptiveness of men without “mem-bers, ” that is, castrated men or eunuchs, has historical precedent. There is a long tradition of eunuchs who were used by rulers, heads of state, and magistrates as keepers o f women. Eunuchs were supervisors of the harem in Islam and wardens of women’s apartments in many royal households. In fact, the word eunuch, from the Greek eunouchos, literally means “ keeper of the bed. ” Eunuchs were men that other more powerful men used to keep their women in place. By fulfilling this role, eunuchs also succeeded in winning the confidence of the ruler and securing important and influential positions.Moreover, the word eunuch is also related to the word scheme. (Eunuchs schemed to obtain political power. ) In Mesopotamia, many eunuchs became royal officers and managers of palaces, and “ others emerge on the pages of history as important and often virile figures. ” 7 Some were famous warriors and statesmen, as well as scholars.One finds eunuchs associated with temples dedicated to the goddesses from at least 2000 B. C. until well into the Roman period. 8 In fact the earliest mention of eunuchs is in connection with the Minoan civilization of Crete, which was a transitional period from an earlier gynocen-tric society. It thus appears that eunuchs, to some extent, always attached themselves to women’s spaces and, most frequently, were used to supervise women’s freedom of movement and to harness women’s self-centeredness and self-government. “ It is stated that entree into every political circle was possible for eunuchs even if barred to other men. ” Will the acceptance of transsexually constructed lesbian-feminists who have lost only their outward appendages of physical masculinity lead to the containment and control of lesbian-feminists? Will every lesbian-feminist space become a harem? Like eunuchs, transsexuals have gained prominent and dominant access to feminist political circles “ barred to other men. ” 10 Just because transsexually constructed lesbian-feminists are not only castrated men, but have also acquired artifacts of a woman’s body and spirit, does not mean that they are un-men, and thatthey cannot be used as “ keepers” of woman-identified women when the “ real men, ” the “ rulers of patriarchy, ”decide that the women’s movement (used here as both noun and verb) should be controlled and contained. In this way, they too can rise in the Kingdoms of the Fathers.The political implications of historical eunuchism and its potential for female control should not be lost upon woman-identified women.MYTHIC DIMENSIONS OF TRANSSEXUALISMTranssexuals are living and acting out a very ancient myth, that of single parenthood by the father. This myth was prevalent in many religious traditions, including the Jewish, Greek, and Christian. Eve was bom of Adam; Dionysus and Athena were bom of Zeus; and Jesus was generated by God the Father in his godly birth. (Mary was a mere receptacle used to conform Jesus to earthly birth standards. ) When this myth is put into the context of transsexualism, the deeper dimensions of how transsexually constructed lesbian-feminists reinforce patriarchy can be perceived.Simone de Beauvoir has remarked that “if [woman] did not exist, men would have invented her. They did invent her. But she exists also apart from their inventiveness. ”Men, of course, invented the feminine, and in this sense it could be said that all women who conform to this invention are transsexuals, fashioned according to man’s image. Lesbian-feminists exist apart from man’s inventiveness, and the political and personal ideals of lesbian-femi-nism have constituted a complete rebellion against the man-made invention of woman, and a context in which women begin to create ourselves in our own image. Thus the transsexual who claims to be a lesbian-feminist seems to be the man who creates himself in woman’s image. This, however, is deceptive, for note that he is still created in man’s image since he is essentially a child of the Father (in this case, the medical fathers), renouncing his mothered birth.Mary Daly has written at length in her most recent work, Gyn/Ecology: The Metaethics o f Radical Feminism, about the myth of Dionysus. 12 She also cites various versions of the myth along with some scholarly commentaries on it. These can shed much light on the mythic implications of the transsexually constructed lesbian-feminist.First of all, Philip Slater points out the very interesting fact that, “ Instead of seeking distance from or mastery over the mother, the Dionysian position incorporates her. ”13 In the most popular version of the myth, Semele, the mother of Dionysus while pregnant with him, is struck by Zeus with a thunderbolt and is thus consumed. Hermes saves the six-month fetal Dionysus, sews him up in Zeus’s thigh, and after three more months, Zeus “births” him. Thus Zeus exterminates the woman and bears his own son, and we have single-parent fatherhood (read motherhood). Moreover, Jane Harrison has pointed out that “the word Dionysus means not ‘son of Zeus’ but rather Zeus-Young Man, i. e., Zeus in his young form. ” 14 Thus Dionysus is his own father (read mother) and births himself into existence.Whether we are talking about being bom of the father, or the self (son), which in the myth are one and the same person (as in the Christian trinity), we are still talking about male mothering. At this level of analysis, it might seem that what men really envy is women’s biological ability to procreate. Transsexuals illustrate one way in which men do this, by acquiring the artifacts of female biology. Even though they cannot give birth, they acquire the organs that are representative of this female power.However, it is the transsexually constructed lesbian-femi-nist who illustrates that much more is desired than female biology—that much more is at stake than literal womb envy. He shows that female biology, whether exercised in giving birth or simply by virtue of its existence, is representative of female creativity on a profound mythic level.Thus the creative power that is associated with female biology is not envied primarily because it is able to give birth physically but because it is multidimensional, bearing culture, harmony, and true inventiveness. The transsexually constructed lesbian-feminist feeds off woman’s true energy source, i. e., her woman-identified self. It is he who recognizes that if female spirit, mind, creativity, and sexuality exist anywhere in a powerful way, it is here, among lesbian-feminists. I am not saying that the lesbian-feminist is the only self- and woman-identified woman. What I mean to express is that lesbianism-femi-nism signals a total giving of women’s energy to women, and that it is this total woman-identified energy that the transsexual who claims to be a lesbian-feminist wants for himself. It is understandable that if men want to become women to obtain female creativity, then they will also want to assimilate those women who have withdrawn their energies from men at the most intimate and emotional levels.This, of course, is not the usual way in which lesbian living has been harnessed. Most often, lesbian existence is simply not acknowledged, as evidenced in the laws against homosexuality, which legislate against male homosexuals, but not lesbians. It has been simply assumed that all women relate to men, and that women need men to survive. Furthermore, the mere labeling of a woman as “lesbian” has been enough to keep lesbian living harnessed or, at best, in the closet. “ Lesbian is the word, the label, the condition that holds women in line. When a woman hears this word tossed her way, she knows that she. . . has crossed the terrible boundary of her sex role. ”16 (Italics mine. ) Whereas the lesbian-feminist crosses the boundary of her patriarchally imposed sex role, the transsexually constructed lesbian-feminist is a boundary violator. This violation is also profoundly mythic, for as Norman O. Brown writes of Dionysus, he as the “ mad god who breaks down boundaries. ” 17 Thus exhibiting qualities that are usually associated with femininity, he appeared to be the opposite of the masculine Apollo.While the super-masculine Apollo overtly oppresses/destroys with his contrived boundaries/hierarchies/rules/roles, the feminine Dionysus blurs the senses, seduces, confuses his victims—drugging theminto complicity, offering them his “ heart” as a love potion th at poisons. It is, however, the feminist Dionysus who appears in the transsexually constructed lesbian-feminist. But he “blurs the senses, seduces, and confuses” in much the same way as the feminine Dionysus. He not only violates the boundaries of women’s bodies but of our minds and spirits.What is more tragic, however, is that he is able to make women break down our boundaries of self-definition.Elizabeth Rose in a letter in response to my article in Chrysalis, “Transsexualism: The Ultimate Homage to Sex-Role Power, ” illustrates well this tendency of feminists to be seduced by Dionysian boundary violation.Raymond’s article encourages us to set our “ bottom line” (about whom we will allow the privilege of self-definition).I am upset that a magazine “of women’s culture”. . . is basically encouraging the elitist/separatist attitude th at self definition [is]. . . subject to the scrutiny and judgments of those who, in the name o f political purity, claim the power to define who is allowed entry into the feminist community. . . and, now, who is or is not female. Rose would encourage us to set no boundaries by employing the analogy of how boundaries have been used oppressively against lesbians in the past/present. “ There are so many painful parallels between how the world has treated strong women and lesbians and how Raymond and others categorize and discount transsexuals. ” 20 But the analogy is false. The boundaries that have been and are used against lesbians are the boundaries of the Fathers: The contrived Apollonian boundaries—such as the false divisions of“ fields” o f knowledge and the splits between “ m ind” and “ heart. ”But in this process we do not become swallowed up in male-centered (Dionysian) confusion. Hags find and define our own boundaries, our own definitions. Radical feminist living “ on the boundary”means this moving, Self-centering boundary definition. As we move we mark o u t our own territory. Rose and other women who have been confused/seduced by Dionysian transsexually constructed lesbian-feminist boundary violation would have us believe thatall boundaries are oppressive. Yet if feminists cannot agree on the boundaries of what constitutes femaleness, then what can we hope to agree on? The Dionysian “ Final Solution, ” as Daly points out, produces confusion in women—“inability to distinguish the female Self and her process from the male-made masquerade. ”22 It encourages the leveling of genuine boundaries of self-preservation and self-centering.THE SEDUCTION OF LESBIAN-FEMINISTSIt is not hard to understand why transsexuals want to become lesbian-feminists. They indeed have discovered where strong female energy exists and want to capture it. It is more difficult to understand why so many feminists are so ready to accept men—in this case, castrated men—into their most intimate circles. Certainly Dionysian confusion about the erasure of all boundaries is one reason that appeals to the liberal mind and masquerades as“sympathy for all oppressed groups. ” Women who believe this, however, fail to see that such liberalism is repressive, and that it can only favor and fortify the possession of women by men. These women also fail to recognize that accepting transsexuals into the feminist community is only another rather unique variation on the age-old theme of women nurturing men, providing them with a safe haven, and finally giving them our best energies.The question arises: are women who accept transsexuals as lesbian-feminists expressing gratitude on some level to those men who are finally willing to join women and pay for their male privilege with their balls? Gratitude is a quality exhibited by all oppressed groups when they think that some in the class of oppressors have finally relinquished their benefits to join them. But, of course, it is doubtful that transsexuals actually give up their male privilege. As one woman put it: “A man who decides to call himself a woman is not giving up his privilege. He is simply using it in a more insidious way. ”23 Furthermore, a man who decides to call himself a lesbian-feminist is getting a lot. TheI l ltranssexually constructed lesbian-feminist is the man who indeed gets to be “the man” in an exclusive women’s club to which he would have otherwise no access.Women who think that these men are giving up male privilege seem to be naive about the sophisticated ways in which it is possible for men to co-opt women’s energy, time, space, and sexuality. Transsexually constructed lesbian-feminists may be the first men to realize that “if you can’t fight them, join them. ” In a short story entitled “The Women’s Restaurant, ” by T. C. Boyle, which appeared recently in Penthouse, this point is well made.The story begins by setting the scene in and around Grace & Rubie’s Restaurant and is written from the point of view of the voyeuristic narrator. “It is a women’s restaurant. Men are not permitted.. . . What goes on there, precisely, no man knows. I am a man. I am burning to find out. ”24 The narrator then proceeds to caricature Grace and Rubie as butch and femme, as well as to relate his several attempts to gain entrance. After two unsuccessful endeavors, he goes to a department store, buys a pink polyester pantsuit, a bra, pantyhose, and cosmetics with which he makes himself up to pass as a woman. He gains entrance and is able to experience what he has been missing.Here I was, embosomed in the very nave, the very omphalos of furtive femininity—a prize patron of the women’s restaurant, a member, privy to its innermost secrets.. . . There they were—women—chewing, drinking, digesting, chatting, giggling, crossing, and uncrossing their legs. Shoes off, feet up. Smoking cigarettes, flashing silverware, tapping time to the music. Women among women. I bathed in their soft chatter, birdsong, the laughter like falling coils of hair. I lit a cigarette and grinned. No more fairybook-hero thoughts of rescuing Rubie—oh no, this was paradise. 2sHaving drunk six tequila sunrises and a carafe of dinner wine, the male intruder/narrator finds it necessary to relieve himself, but forgets to sit down when he urinates in the rest room, at which point he is discovered by Grace.The story ends with his savoring of the triumph of temporary infiltration and a plan for permanent invasion.I have penetrated the women’s restaurant, yes, but in actuality it was little more than a ra p e .. . . I am not satisfied. The obsession grows in me, pregnant, swelling, insatiable with the first taste of fulfillment. Before I am through, I will drink it to satiety. I have plans.. . . The next time I walk through those curtained doors at Grace& Rubie’s there will be no dissim ulation.. . . There are surgeons who can assure it. That this story appeared in Penthouse is no surprise. It is obvious that its editors thought it would be of interest to their readers, whether budding or closet transsexuals.In spite of the ludicrous details and caricatures, one can see that the narrator was primarily attracted to the woman-centeredness of the restaurant. “Women among women. . .this was paradise. ” Such an attitude is representative of the transsexually constructed lesbian-feminist who indeed gets his “ paradise, ” because there were surgeons who could“assure it. ” Ironically, the would-be transsexual narrator of the story says that the next time he walks through the doors, “there will be no dissimulation. ” Transsexualism, however, is dissimulation. As I have shown previously, to not acknowledge the fact that one is a transsexual in a women’s space is indeed deception. Finally, “ penetrating”the women’s restaurant was “little more than a rape. ”Little more than a rape, indeed! What “little more” is there to such an act, unless it is the total rape of our feminist identities, minds, and convictions? The transsexually constructed lesbian-feminist, having castrated himself, turns his whole body and behavior into a phallus that can rape in many ways, all the time. In this sense, he performs total rape, while also functioning totally against women’s will to lesbian-feminism.We have seen three reasons why lesbian-feminists are seduced into accepting transsexuals: liberalism, gratitude, and naivete. There is yet another reason—one that can be perhaps best described as the last remnants o f male identification. This is a complex phenomenon, which has various ingredients.On the one hand, there is fear of the label “man-hater. ”Are women who are so accepting of the transsexually con-structed lesbian-feminist trying to prove to themselves that a lesbian-feminist (she who has been called the ultimate man-hater) is really not a man-hater after all? As Adrienne Rich has pointed out, one way of avoiding that feared label, and of allowing one’s self to accept men, is to accept those men who have given up the supposed ultimate possession of manhood in a patriarchal society by selfcastration. On the other hand, there is a second component to this“ last remnant of male identification”—i. e., attraction to masculine presence. As Pat Hynes has suggested, there is an apparent similarity between a strong woman-identified self and a transsexual who fashions himself in a lesbian image. Because there is an apparent similarity, some les-bian-feminists may allow themselves to express the residues of their (buried) attraction to men or to masculine presence, while pretending to themselves that transsexually constructed lesbian-feminists are really women. This allows women to do two things: to express that attraction, yet also to decide themselves.SELF-DEFINITIONOne of the most constraining questions that transsexuals, and, in particular, transsexually constructed lesbian-femi-nists, pose is the question of self-definition—who is a woman, who is a lesbian-feminist? But, of course, they pose the question on their terms, and we are faced with answering it. Men have always made such questions of major concern, and this question, in true phallic fashion, is thrust upon us. How many women students writing on such a feeble feminist topic as “ Should Women Be Truck Drivers, Engineers, Steam Shovel Operators? ” and the like, have had their male professor scribble in the margins: “ But what are the real differences between men and women? ”Men, of course, have defined the supposed differences that have kept women out of such jobs and professions, and feminists have spent much energy demonstrating how these differences, if indeed they do exist, are primarilythe result of socialization. Yet there are differences, and some feminists have come to realize that those differences are important whether they spring from socialization, from biology, or from the total history of existing as a woman in a patriarchal society. The point is, however, that the origin of these differences is probably not the important question, and we shall perhaps never know the total answer to it. Yet we are forced back into trying to answer it again and again. *Transsexuals, and transsexually constructed lesbian-feminists, drag us back to answering such old questions by asking them in a new way. And thus feminists debate and divide because we keep focusing on patriarchal questions of who is a woman and who is a lesbian-feminist.It is important for us to realize that these may well be nonquestions and that the only answer we can give to them is that we know who we are. We know that we are women who are bom with female chromosomes and anatomy, and that whether or not we were socialized to be so-called normal women, patriarchy has treated and will treat us like women. Transsexuals have not had this same history.No man can have the history of being bom and located in this culture as a woman. He can have the history of wishing to be a woman and of acting like a woman, but this gender experience is that of a transsexual, not of a woman. Surgery may confer the artifacts of outward and inward female organs but it cannot confer the history of being bom a woman in this society.What of persons bom with ambiguous sex organs or chromosomal anomalies that place them in a biologically intersexual situation? It must be noted that practically all of them are altered shortly after birth to become anatomically male or female and are reared in accordance*A parallel is th e abortion issue, which can also be n oted in this cont e x t The key question, asked by m en for centuries, is “ w hen does life begin? ” This question is posed in m en ’s term s and on th eir turf, an d is essentially unanswerable. Women to rtu re themselves trying to answer it and th u s do n o t assert or even develop our own questio n s ab o u t abortion.with the societal gender identity and role that accompanies their bodies. Persons whose sexual ambiguity is discovered later are altered in the direction of what their gender rearing has been (masculine or feminine) up to that point. Thus those who are altered shortly after birth have the history of being practically bom as male or female and those who are altered later in life have their body surgically conformed to their history. When and if they do undergo surgical change, they do not become the opposite sex after a long history of functioning and being treated differently.Although popular literature on transsexualism implies that Nature has made mistakes with transsexuals, it is really society that has made the mistake by producing conditions that create the transsexual body/mind split.While intersexed people are bom with chromosomal or hormonal anomalies, which can be linked up with certain biological malfunctions, transsexualism is not of this order. The language of “Nature makes mistakes” only serves to confuse and distort the issue, taking the focus off the social system, which is actively oppressive. It succeeds in blaming an amorphous “ Nature” that is made to seem oppressive and is conveniently amenable to direct control/manipulation by the instruments of hormones and surgery.In speaking of the importance of history for self-definition, two questions must be asked. Should a person want to change his/her personal and social history and if so, how should one change that history in the most honest and integral way? In answer to the first question, anyone who has lived in a patriarchal society has to change personal and social history in order to be a self. History cannot be allowed to determine the boundaries, life, and location of the self. We should be change agents of our own history. Women who are feminists obviously wish to change parts of their history as women in this society; some men who are honestly dealing with feminist questions wish to change their history as men; and transsexuals wish to change their history of wanting to be women. Instressing the importance of female history for female self-definition, I am not advocating a static view of such history.What is more important, however, is how one changes personal history in the most honest and integral way, if one wants to break down sex-role oppression. Should nontranssexual men who wish to fight sexism take on the identity of women and/or lesbian-feminists while keeping their male anatomy intact? Why should castrated men take on these identities and self-definitions and be applauded for doing so? To what extent would concerned blacks accept whites who had undergone medicalized changes in skin color and, in the process, claimed that they had not only a black body but a black soul?Can a transsexual assume the self-definition of lesbian-feminist just because he wants to, or does this particular self-definition proceed from certain conditions endemic to female biology and history? Women take on the selfdefinition of feminist and/or lesbian because that definition truly proceeds from not only the chromosomal fact of being bom XX, but also from the whole history of what being bom with those chromosomes means in this society.Transsexuals would be more honest if they dealt with their specific form of gender agony that inclines them to want a transsexual operation. This gender agony proceeds from the chromosomal fact of being bom XY and wishing that one were bom XX, and from the particular life history that produced such distress. The place to deal with that problem, however, is not the women’s community. The place to confront and solve it is among transsexuals themselves.One should be able to make choices about who one wants to be. But should one be able to make any choice?Should a white person attempt to become black, for example? The question is a moral one, which asks basically about the rightness of the choice, not the possibility of it.Should persons be able to make choices that disguise certain facets of our existence from others who have a rightto know—choices that feed off others’ energies, and reinforce oppression?Jill Johnston has commented that, “many women are dedicated to working for the ‘reconstructed man. ’” 28 This usually means women gently or strongly prodding their significant men into androgynous behavior and action.Women who accept transsexually constructed lesbian-feminists say that these men are truly “reconstructed”in the most basic sense that women could hope for—i. e., they have paid with their balls to fight against sexism. Ultimately, however, the “reconstructed man” becomes the“ reconstructed woman” who obviously considers himself equal to and a peer of genetic women in terms of his“womanhood. ” One transsexual openly expressed that he felt male-to-constructed-female transsexuals surpassed genetic women.Genetic women cannot possess the very special courage, brilliance, sensitivity and compassion—and overview—th at derives from the transsexual experience. Free from the chains o f menstruation and child-bearing, transsexual women are obviously far superior to Gennys in many ways.Genetic women are becoming quite obsolete, which is obvious, and the future belongs to transsexual women. We know this, and perhaps some o f you suspect it. All you have left is your “ ability”to bear children, and in a world which will groan to feed 6 billion by the year 2000, th a t’s a negative asset. Ultimately, women must ask if transsexually constructed lesbian-feminists are our peers. Are they equal to us? Questions of equality often center on proportional equality* such as “equal pay for equal work, ” or “ equal rights to health care. ” I do not mean equal in this sense.Rather I use equality to mean: “like in quality, nature, or status” and “capable of meeting the requirements of a situation or a task. ” In these senses transsexuals are not equal to women and are not our peers. They are neither equal in “quality, nature of status” nor are they “capable of meeting the requirements of the situation” of women who have spent their whole lives as women.Jill Johnston has written of lesbian-feminism: “The essence of the new political definition is peer grouping.Women and men are not peers and many people seriously doubt whether we ever were or if we ever could be. ”Transsexuals are not our peers, by virtue of their history.It is perhaps our mistrust of the man as the biological aggressor which keeps bringing us back to the political necessity of power by peer grouping. Although we are still virtually powerless it is only by constantly adhering to this difficult principle of the power inherent in natural peers (men after all have demonstrated the success o f this principle very well) that women will eventually achieve an autonomous existence. The transsexual does not display the usual phallic aggression. Instead he violates women’s bodies by taking on the artifactual female organs for himself. The transsexually constructed lesbian-feminist becomes a psychological and social aggressor as well.Transsexually constructed lesbian-feminists challenge women’s preserves of autonomous existence. Their existence within the women’s community basically attests to the ethic that women should not live without men—or without the “reconstructed man. ” How feminists assess and meet this challenge will affect the future of our genuine movement, self-definition, and power of be-ing.In the final analysis, transsexually constructed lesbian-feminists are in the same tradition as the man-made, made-up “lesbians” of the Playboy centerfolds. Every so often, Playboy and similar magazines feature a “ Sappho Pictorial. ”32 Recently, male photographers have entered the book market by portraying pseudolesbians in all sorts of positions, clothing, and contexts that could only be fantasized by a male mind. 33 In short, the manner in which women are depicted in these photographs mimics the poses of men pawing women. Men produce “lesbian”love the way they want it to be and according to their own canons of what they think it should be.Transsexually constructed lesbian-feminists are in this tradition of pseudolesbian propaganda. Both the Playboypseudolesbian and the transsexual pseudolesbian spread the “correct” (read male-defined) image of the lesbian, which in turn filters into public consciousness through the mass media as truth. By thus mutilating the true selfdefinition of the lesbian, men mold her image/reality according to their own. As Lisa Buck has commented, transsexualism is truly “their word made flesh! ”Transsexually constructed lesbian-feminists attempt to function as image-makers of the lesbian-feminist—not only for the public-at-large, but also for the women’s community. Their masquerade of the lesbian filters into women’s consciousness through the feminist media as “the real thing. ” The ultimate tragedy of such a parody is that the reality and self-definition of lesbian-feminist becomes mutilated in women themselves. Lesbian-feminists who accept transsexually constructed lesbian-feminists as other selves are mutilating their own reality.The various “breeds” of women that medical science can create are endless. There are the women who are hormonally hooked on continuous doses of estrogen-replacement therapy. ERT supposedly will secure for them a new life of “eternal femininity. ”35 There are the hysterectomized women, purified of their “potentially lethal”organs for “prophylactic” purposes. 36 Finally, there is the “she-male”—the male-to-constructed-female transsexual. And the offshoot of this “breed” is the transsexually constructed lesbian-feminist.What all of these events point to is the particularly instrumental role that medicine has played in the control of deviant or potentially deviant women. “ The Transsexual Empire” is ultimately a medical empire, based on a patriarchal medical model. This medical model has provided a“sacred canopy” of legitimations for transsexual treatment and surgery. In the name of therapy, it has medicalized moral and social questions of sex-role oppression, thereby erasing their deepest meaning.C H A P T E R VTherapyas a Way o f Life:Medical Valuesversus Social ChangeT h e medical model is at theheart of the transsexual empire. It serves as the “new theology” for the therapeutic and medical priests. From time to time there are “in-house” debates about certain elements of the model, but on the whole, it functions at an established and consistent level of orthodoxy. (I use the term medical model to mean an ideology that stresses: freedom from physical or mental pain or disease; the location of physical or mental problems within the individual or interpersonal context; an approach to human conflicts from a diagnostic and disease perspective to be solved by specialized technical and professional experts. ) This approach has a profound influence on the study and treatment of transsexualism. For example, if one’s basic approach to the problem of transsexualism is from a psychological and medical basis, then many moral issues, as well as sociopolitical, economic, and environmental problems, are transformed into technical problems. This means also that critical awareness, choice, and responsi-bility are not perceived as “ curative” but are replaced by technical “cures. ”Ultimately, one must ask if the transsexual problem is really amenable to surgery and thus to a medical model.Is the biomedical imperative that has functioned in other areas, such as genetic technology and psychosurgery, reducible to presuppositions about the nature of women and men? If, as argued in Chapter III, transsexualism is of sociopolitical origins, can it be understood and treated by a medical model?THE MEDICAL MODEL AS THEORETICALAND ETHICAL CONSTRUCTSince the nineteenth century, especially, problems of alienation have been individualized. With the advent of Freudian psychoanalysis, which was later incorporated into medical psychiatry, “health” values began to take the place of ethical values of choice, freedom, and understanding.With the transform ation o f the religious perspective on man into the scientific, and in particular into the psychiatric, which became fully articulated during the nineteenth century, there occurred a radical shift in emphasis away from viewing man as a responsible agent acting in and on the world and toward viewing him as a a responsive organism being acted upon by biological and social“ forces. ” In this process, the imagery and vocabulary o f morality were replaced by biological fantasy and psychiatric m etaphor. The medical model has gradually yet consistently treated problems of social alienation in the therapy of closed rooms, and more recently in the small group counseling sessions of family clinics and community mental health centers. Ernest Becker has contended that initially,“ the psychoanalytic cure began its work by focusing on the individual; now, it is broadening out to the study and‘therapy’ of the family. ”2 I have noted in assessing the theories of Robert Stoller that much of his work involves not only individual, but family therapy, as well.By thus treating the problem of transsexualism, the medical-psychiatric professionals have consistently used a medical model as remedy. Failing in their attempts to counsel preoperative transsexuals to “ adjust” to the normative gender identity and role of their anatomical sex, transsexual clinics and therapists (after extensive evaluations, of course) succeed in “adjusting” transsexuals to the normative gender identity and role of their desired and opposite anatomical sex. Armed with the medical model, and operating on the basis of the narrow “health” values it generates, therapists speculate about the causes of transsexualism and make therapeutic diagnoses within the same framework that generated the problem to begin with (that is, within a role-defined society and its definitions of masculinity and femininity).The goal in this “triumph of the therapeutic” is supposedly good “health, ” but good “health” achieved at the expense of critical awareness and exploration of the oppressiveness of the roles themselves. This goal of good“health” is particularly ironic in light of the fact that the word health originally meant “whole.”3 As defined by the medical model, “health” values come to mean partial solutions, which go against total integrity of the body, the individual concerned, and society in general.The proponents of the medical model, who have extolled the professional goal of therapy, have given themselves the mandate to manipulate in the interests of reduced suffering for the transsexual. And in so doing, they have forced transsexuals back into a social system whose basic sexist norms and values remain unquestioned. Many persons express the urgency of their desire to be trans-sexed in terms of “normalizing” their self-perceived masculine or feminine psyche in a male or female body. The abhorrence of homosexuality, expressed by many transsexuals, and their unwillingness to be identified as such, indicate their desire to “normalize” their sexual relationships as heterosexual by acquiring the appropriate genitalia. Many express also their desire to be married, have (adopted) children, and function as part of a society wherethese roles and functions are both normal and normative.Thus the transsexual is generally no advocate of social criticism and change.The medical model itself promotes this so-called normalization and in so doing limits the quest for self-transcendence. The kinds of “health” values it generates do not encourage the transsexual to recognize that such“health” may be unhealthy in the long run. “ Health values are all of a piece again with our philosophy of adjustment, spurious individualism, and unashamed and thoughtless self-seeking. ”4 Such notions of “ health” make true individualism and autonomy unachievable, rendering the individual passive, acquiescent, and medically manipulatable.They deprive the individual of the possibility of transcendent activity and center him/her on false goods (gods). As Phillip Rieff has said,By this time men have gone too far beyond the old deception of good and evil to specialize at last, wittingly, in techniques that are to be called. . . . “ therapeutic, ” with nothing at stake beyond a manipulatable sense of well-being. sThe present counseling and treatment of transsexuals, based on the medical model I have described, give the transsexual no real moral options. Failing to analyze our society’s definitions of masculinity and femininity, such therapy offers little encouragement and advice to help the transsexual live beyond both these containers of person-hood.Consider the possibility of counseling that encouraged the transsexual to break both stereotypes. Here, the transsexual would be encouraged to become the agent of her or his own energies and to strive for more varied modes of being and becoming. In a very real sense, at this point, the transsexual would become a social critic. All of us are in some way constricted by sex-role socialization. One way of viewing transsexuals is that they are uniquely constricted by the rigidified definitions of masculinity and femininity. The general cultural constrictions, from which we all suffer, become body-laden with them. However, de­prived of an alternative framework in which to view the problem, the transsexual is unable to express the problem clearly. The gender identity clinics have a vested interest in suppressing criticism, and may collude with the transsexual to solve the problem in an ultimately uncritical way. Given a different mode of therapy where “consciousness-raising” is the primary modus operandi, the transsexual might not find it as necessary to resort to sex-conversion surgery. *A society that encourages identity and role conformity based on biological sex will naturally turn to sex-conversion surgery rather than accept what it sees as a threatened obliteration of these roles. Until the problems that psychiatry has claimed for itself are broadened into a general criticism of patriarchal society, transsexualism will not be understood as a medical manipulation of social and individual action and meanings. Meanwhile, the medical model and its empire continue to domesticate the revolutionary potential of transsexuals. The potential stance of the transsexual as outsider to the conventional roles of masculinity and femininity is short-circuited.Health values and goals hide the possibility from transsexuals themselves of being “history-bearing individuals”who, instead of conforming to sex roles, are in a unique position to turn their gender agony into an effective protest against the very social structures and roles that spawned the dilemma to begin with. Rieff has pointed out that therapies and, by extension, I would say the medical model in general, consist “ chiefly in participation mystiques severely limiting deviant initiatives. ”6 Individuals are trained through what Rieff calls “ ritual action” to express fixed wants. “ The limitation of possibilities [is] the very design of salvation. ” ♦There is no simple definition of “ counsciousness-raising, ” which will be discussed in the Appendix. Briefly, and in this context, it can be defined as a mode of counseling that places so-called personal problems within the larger arena of a patriarchal society. At the heart of such a process is the recognition that “ the personal is political. ”Thus be-ing is reduced to well-being (therapy), and ethical choices are reduced to health values.THE DE-ETHICIZING OF PROBLEMS AND BEHAVIOROne of the major effects of the medical model has been the de-ethicizing of problems and behavior. De-ethicization occurs when problems that have moral implications are defined as if they had none, or are redefined or reclassified, for example, as “therapeutic considerations, ” or“ health issues, ” or “ psychiatric management” problems.The “triumph of the therapeutic” has made transsexualism the “ territorial imperative” of the psychologist, psychiatrist, and/or mental-health worker.Thomas Szasz has noted that the conquest of human existence by the mental-health professions started with the identification and classification of so-called mental illnesses, and has culminated in our day with the claim that“ all of life is a ‘psychiatric problem’ for behavioral science to ‘solve. ’” 8 Szasz has attempted to show that persons, by seeking relief from the burden of what are actually moral responsibilities, mystify and “technicize” t h e i r“problems in living. ” In turn, this hunger for help and health is fed by a behavioral technology ready and willing to free such persons of their moral burdens. Indeed, Szasz contends that the “ mandate” of the contemporary psychiatrist is precisely “to obscure, ” and moreover “ to deny” the ethical dilemmas of life, and to transform these into medical and technical problems susceptible to their solutions. 9 In this same way, transsexualism has been categorized as a medical and technical problem that is only resolvable by medical and technical specialties.Mystification is at work throughout the transsexual odyssey. It operates in a variety of areas: in the claim that one is, for example, a man trapped in a woman’s body; in the obscuring of the social components of the problem; in the hidden political dimensions of therapy; in the various individualized explanations; and in the very languageof transsexualism itself. As demonstrated earlier, it is biologically impossible to change chromosomal sex, and thus the transsexual is not really transsexed. As Dr. Georges Burou, a French physician who specializes in male-to-constructed-female transsexualism phrases it: “ I don’t change men into women. I transform male genitals into genitals that have a female aspect. All the rest is in the patient’s mind. ” 10 Or as Jan Morris inadvertently stated:“ I wear the body of a woman. ” De-ethicization, of course, is defended in the name of scientific knowledge and neutrality. However, neutrality is a myth and the politics of diagnosis and therapy remain.So too do the philosophical-ethical dimensions of the psychological craft. Under the guise of science, psychological explanations often include value judgments. For example, when John Money and Patricia Tucker assert: “Once a sex distinction has worked or been pressured into the nuclear core of your gender schema, to dislodge it is to threaten you as an individual with destruction, ”12 they are using popularized pseudoscientific language where the “ oughts”have been deleted, yet where they permeate the sentence.Thus the reader translates: “Once a sex distinction has worked or been pressured into the nuclear core of your gender schema, one should not dislodge it, else the individual is threatened with destruction. ” One might also ask here, destruction by whom? by what? Once more, the agent is deleted.The process of the de-ethicization of behavior by psychology and psychiatry has particular relevance for discussions of transsexualism and the consequences which follow. By attributing transsexualism to biological or psychological causes, scientists, as stated previously, are conveying that there are only two choices: (1) adjustment to one’s body-role; or (2) surgery and counseling to transform one’s body and role. In effect, both of these choices are biomedical—choice number one adds up to biology-is-destiny, and choice number two states that, this failing, hormonal and possibly surgical treatment (contingent upon one’s “ passing, ” of course) are indicated. Either way,the transsexual cannot really make an ethical choice because there are no choices to make. The only “choices”represented are those that bio-medicine dictates in this culture. The wider range of choices and the discovery of meanings that would be available to one who could live beyond sex roles, but in one’s native body, are not made available. Such reductionism and restricted counseling fetishize the transsexual issue.THERAPEUTIC FETISHIZATIONIn discussing the various theories of transsexualism, I often noted that both biological and psychological theories reduced the issue of transsexualism to individual or interpersonal causes. Another way of viewing this, and thus understanding the reductionism more clearly, is to consider these theories as fetishizations of the social. Not only the theories, but the whole gamut of psychologizing, restrict the issue to a very superficial area.Ernest Becker, in The Structure o f Evil, discusses the function of fetishization. He views it as an attempt, in some manageable way, to come to grips with a portion of reality which is substituted for the whole. Fetishization, for example, is one explanation why law-enforcement officials in our society are so obsessed with issues of traffic violations, marijuana, and the like, but cannot cope with the much more serious problems of rape and murder. As Becker contends, the lesser problems, and the attention they receive, are social fetishizations of the problem of morality in modem times. 13 In the case of transsexualism, it would be an overwhelming burden to attack the problem of sex-role socialization on an individual, never mind social, level. Therefore, it is easier, applying a fetishized logic, to confront the problem within patriarchal identity and role limits, thereby making use of a ready-made system of knowledge and therapy that treats the problem individually on a post-hoc basis.Moreover, the fetish object is precisely the one thatpresents itself to our eyes in the most striking and compelling way. Obviously in the case of transsexualism, that which is most directly and immediately expressed (from the perspective of the transsexual, especially) is the feeling/knowledge that one is a woman “ trapped” in the body of a man. Subsequent behavior and dress reinforce this“ felt” identity and role. Evaluating whether or not a transsexual can “ pass successfully” in the role of his or her desired sex monopolizes the attention and energies of those professionals in the gender identity clinics who should be evaluating the culturally prescribed roles themselves. In this same context, the reality of transsexualism is explained by the supposed effectiveness of sex-conversion surgery as the ultimate cure. These are all examples of what Becker calls “ fetishizing the field, ” or “creating a locus of meaning in a very narrow sense, in order to be able to have some reality that calls upon one’s adaptive energies. ”Transsexuals and transsexual “ experts” focus on the genitalia of the opposite sex—the desired breasts and vagina, or the construction of an artificial phallus. These artifacts come to incarnate the essence of femaleness or maleness which the transsexual so urgently desires. The medical literature on transsexualism is filled with photographs, plates, and anatomical drawings of sexual organs that have been constructed “ onto” the postoperative transsexual, in such a way as to highlight the “natural look” that the knife has wrought. Interestingly, these photographs seldom show the whole person. With a zoom lens effect, they center upon the breasts or phallus. Thus the photographs themselves illustrate the fetishizing of transsexualism The medical-surgical solution begins to assert control in the narrow area of the chemical and surgical specialties. Attention becomes focused upon constructing the vagina, for example, in as aesthetic a way as possible.What Becker amplified in his discussion of fetishism, Seymour Halleck discusses under the heading of “the politics of symptoms. ” Halleck points out that treatmentwhich focuses on symptoms rather than on broad social or existential issues is very likely to be efficient. In the case of transsexualism, we see that 90 percent of transsexuals report satisfaction postoperatively. IS However, as Halleck explains, this kind of satisfaction is achieved at the expense of exploring the social meaning of the symptoms.By the instrumentality of hormones and surgery, the symptom is certainly removed but so is the indirect evidence provided by the symptom that something is amiss on a deeper level. Therefore, after medical intervention, transsexuals may have less power to cope with the forces of oppression than before they started treatment, since at this point, they fit into a role-defined world almost completely. Any critical awareness is thus diffused. Since the result of hormonal and surgical treatment is that the transsexual becomes an agreeable participant in a society which encourages sexism, primarily by sex-role oppression, then the moral and political implications of that treatment must be questioned. In this sense, transsexual surgery is a“social tranquilizer. ” For the sake of “health” and “wellbeing, ” the status quo of patriarchy is strengthened.THE POLITICS OF TRANSSEXUAL THERAPYValue freedom and political neutrality have long been advocated in psychiatry and the professions in general. But Seymour Halleck, in 1971, asserted what is by now a commonplace—that any kind of psychiatric or counseling intervention will have an impact upon the distribution of power in society. Psychiatric neutrality, in this perspective, is a fiction. Implicit in Halleck’s position, of course, is the assertion that the psychiatrist or counselor is a social engineer, because any counselor has some preconceived ideas of what is good for people, whether these be implicit or explicit. Such values are transmitted to the person seeking help. Whatever route the counselor goes, she/he will either encourage the person to accept or to change the existing distribution of power.As Halleck further points out, there is a strange tendency among counseling professionals to assume that any counseling intervention that is not explicitly political or that does not change the status quo is neutral. Whereas any professional activity that is explicitly change-oriented is designated as “political. ” Szasz formulates this same idea in a somewhat different way, emphasizing the social and ethical dimensions of a counselor’s therapeutic stance.Difficulties in human relations can be analyzed, interpreted, and given meaning only within specific social and ethical contexts. Accordingly, the psychiatrist’s socio-ethical orientations will influence his ideas on what is wrong with the patient, on what deserves comment or interpretation, in what directions change might be desirable, and so forth. In our society, political power is based on sex. Kate Millett stated this most effectively back in 1970 in her work aptly titled Sexual Politics. By politics, she does not mean the word in the narrow sense but is referring to“power-structured relationships, arrangements whereby one group of persons is controlled by another. ”17 The title, Sexual Politics, implies that the sex into which one is bom and all that goes with biological maleness or femaleness create a category with political implications.The personal is recognized as political, and personal interaction between women and men is thereby seen to be political.What goes largely unexamined, often even unacknowledged (yet is institutionalized nonetheless) in our social order, is the birthright priority whereby males rule females. Through this system a most ingenious form of “ interior colonization” has been achieved. It is one which tends to be sturdier than any form of segregation and more rigorous than class stratification, more uniform, certainly more enduring. However its present appearance may be, sexual dominion obtains nevertheless as perhaps the most pervasive ideology of our culture and provides its most fundamental concept of power. Whereas any therapy affects the distribution of power in society, the relationship between transsexualism and sex­ual politics is a unique one. The encouragement that is given to transsexuals in therapy to conform to society’s roles of masculinity and femininity supports the very bulwark of sexual politics—that is, sex-role socialization.Furthermore, such therapy is not only political but morally manipulative. Therapy not only affects the distribution of power, but also brings about the alteration of values. What we have here is a very sophisticated form of behavior control and modification, on both the individual and the social level.TRANSSEXUALISM AS BEHAVIOR CONTROLAND MODIFICATIONTranssexualism, as a proclaimed form of therapeutic surgery for nonphysical disorders, is located on a historical continuum of similar medical ventures, all of which legitim a te ^ ) bodily intervention for purposes of improving behavior. In the nineteenth century, clitoridectomy for girls and women, and to a lesser extent, circumcision for boys were accepted methods of treatment for masturbation and other so-called sexual disorders. 19 In the 1930s, Egas Moniz, a Portuguese physician, received the Nobel Prize for his “ ground-breaking work” on lobotomies.Moniz operated on state mental hospital inmates, using lobotomy for everything from depression to aggression.The new terminology for brain surgery of this nature today is psychosurgery, which its proponents have attempted to disassociate from the cruder procedures of Moniz and others by pointing to its more “ refined” surgical techniques. But call it lobotomy or psychosurgery, surgeons continue to intrude upon human brains on the basis of tenuous localization theories that supposedly pinpoint the area of the brain where the “undesirable”behavior can be found and excised. 20 Finally, transsexual surgery is justified on the basis of adjusting a person’s body to his/her mind.What each of these surgical ventures has in common isthat they derive their therapeutic legitimacy from a medical model which locates behavioral problems within certain affected organs. Surgery then alters, intrudes, removes and, in the case of transsexualism, adds organs. In each venture, a surgical fetishizing takes place, reducing the social components of the problem to the most tangible and manageable forms.Further, what each of these surgical ventures has in common is the modification and control of behavior.Clitoridectomies modify sexual behavior or fantasied sexual behavior; psychosurgery modifies the gamut of behavior from hyperactivity in preteen children to so-called manic depression in dissatisfied housewives; transsexual surgery modifies everything that comes under the heading of masculine and feminine in a patriarchal society—thus practically everything.In the case of transsexualism, behavior modification is both a prerequisite for and an effect of the surgery. Prior to the operation, gender identity clinics and professionals require that transsexuals alter their behavior to conform to the prescribed gender role the person desiring transsexual surgery wants. In this context, it can also be pointed out that sex-role conditioning itself is a form of behavior control (i. e., the control that a patriarchal society exercises over its members). Yet, with a good number of people, this form of social control has been unsuccessful.This has happened with the transsexual, who has not been adequately conditioned into the role/identity that accompanies his or her body. Instead of seeing this unsuccessful conditioning and gender dissatisfaction as a “signal of transcendence, ” however, the transsexual seeks out (with the help of the transsexual technicians) another mode of behavior modification, which is transsexual treatment and surgery. This latter form of behavior modification and control then reinforces, for the transsexual, in several hormonal and surgical strokes, the behavior that it took years of sex-role conditioning to impose upon persons who belong to the sex that the transsexual desires. Thus we have a multiplication of modes of behavior modification:1. Sex-role conditioning that accompanies a male or female body and, which, in the case of the transsexual, fails.2. Sex-role reconditioning which accompanies and is a prerequisite for the body that the transsexual seeks and which the transsexual technicians (psychological and surgical) encourage and reinforce.3. Transsexual treatment and surgery which solidify the presurgical conditioning.Reinforcement is a key word for behaviorists. One of the central claims of B. F. Skinner is that the immediacy of reinforcement is what shapes successive behavior in all “learning animals. ” Skinner differs from classical conditioning theorists (e. g., Pavlov) in saying that behavior is shaped by what follows it rather than by what precedes it. In the past, most psychologists of this persuasion had assumed that new attitudes were necessary to develop new behavior. Skinner turned this around and said that new attitudes follow or accompany changed behavior. In the case of the male-to-constructed-female transsexual, however, feminine behavior is shaped by the promise of what is to follow—that is, a changed body. Encouraged by the gender identity clinics to prove transsexual status by their ability to pass as feminine, transsexuals seek hormone treatments and ultimately sex-conversion surgery as positive reinforcement of further stereotypical behavior. Thus transsexual counseling and clinics sire very good examples of Skinner’s “operant conditioning” philosophy: the controller, using a series of carefully planned schedules of positive and/or negative reinforcements (shortening or lengthening the “passing” time) brings about desired responses (stereotypical behavior) from the transsexual.However, the most significant point in Skinner’s philosophy is that the controller will exert hardly any control, because the controlled will control themselves voluntarily.Coercion, in the traditional sense, will not have to be employed. Skinner creates a utopia where people “will” to live. (Somewhat contradictorily, however, freedom is a“mentalistic concept” in the Skinnerian schema. ) It is clear that voluntarism is a very deceptive construct in a behaviorist framework.In like manner, the concept of voluntarism is deceptively highlighted in the transsexual literature. Sex-conversion surgery is not forced upon transsexuals. The transsexual researchers and clinicians emphasize that persons who desire to change sex seek such treatment eagerly.Like the benevolent behaviorism in Skinner, transsexual surgery is presented as something thousands request, many of whom are turned away.To use another example: Many oppressed people use heroin to make life tolerable in intolerable conditions.Heroin usage is a highly effective yet dangerous treatment for dissatisfaction and despair. Recently, for example, black leaders have drawn attention to heroin as a pacifier of black people. As Jesse Jackson has phrased it: “We have come from the southern rope to the northern dope. ” In a strict sense, one cannot say that the drug is forced upon its users. Indeed they seek it eagerly. But in the long run, the willing use of the drug strengthens the position of the oppressors and the oppressed. The contentment and euphoria produced by the drug diffuses the militancy, or potential militancy, of the user. Thus heroin is a tool of behavior control and modification.Transsexual surgery, in much the same way, produces satisfaction and relief for the transsexual. In contrast to more overt, coercive forms of behavior control and modification, such as involuntary commitment in prisons or mental institutions, or “informed consent” obtained while in these same institutions, transsexualism appears to be blissfully and freely chosen. Yet just as commentators have asked how a truly “informed consent” can be obtained in a coercive context, such as a prison or mental institution, I would pose the question: how can transsexuals truly give“informed consent” and freely choose to convert to the opposite sex anatomy and role when the coercive power of sex-role socialization is filtered through all institutions ina patriarchal society? Not that such socialization is deterministic, but rather that it deeply conditions one’s choices as well as one’s motivation to choose. In a traditional sense, no one forced the transsexual to change sex. No one forced the transsexual to start hormone therapy. No one forced the transsexual into opposite-sex roles and behavior. But in a society where masculinity and femininity accompany a male or female body, the options are limited, if one does not have a context of support to transcend these roles. When the transsexual experts maintain that they use transsexual procedures only with people who ask for them, and who prove that they can “ pass, ” they obscure the social reality. Given patriarchy’s prescription that one must be either masculine or feminine, free choice is conditioned.What is significant here is that either way—by outright coercion or by employing an individual’s “voluntarism”against herself or himself—the coercive impact is the same.As Willard Gaylin has noted in a different context: “Its[society’s] coercive impact, incidentally, is just as great whether it was designed to produce the effect, or whether the effect was an accidental historic and developmental spin-off. ”We are at a point in the history of behavior control and modification where we must be very aware of its more subtle forms. Most people recognize the manipulation of human behavior and emotions at its most extreme—when that manipulation is organized, or when physical agents are used. Many people, however, would not perceive transsexual surgery as a form of behavior control and modification, even though physical instrumentation is used, because the concept of voluntarism has taken hold, and the coercion of a role-defined environment is not recognized as an influential factor. Furthermore: “It may be that the general population resists the idea of seeing emotional coercion in the same terms as physical coercion because it threatens basic beliefs about man’s autonomy, because one likes to think of himself as a logical individual underthe control of intellect rather than emotion. ”23 But, of course, social controllers have been well-known for convincing the individual that she/he is in control.Thus it is important, in the transsexual context, to examine the whole issue of control. Who is controlling whom? Presently, the controllers are the gender identity clinics and the transsexual experts who staff them. It is not far-fetched to conceive of a “gender identity business, ” as such institutions proliferate, functioning as centers of social control. We now have violence control centers, such as Vacaville, which, in the words of its main organizer, has been designed to focus on the “pathologically violent individual” and is aimed at “altering undesirable behavior. ”As the gender identity clinics expand and the tolerance for transsexual surgery grows, it is not inconceivable that such clinics could become sex-role control centers, for deviant, nonfeminine females and nonmasculine males, as well as for transsexuals. Such gender identity centers are already being used for the treatment of designated child transsexuals. The use of behavior modification and control is presently very widespread. It is fast becoming a tool of American law enforcement, and funding for it from state and government sources has been documented. 25 Furthermore, we can safely predict, on the basis of past and present CIA and FBI activities, that if gender identity facilities became government controlled, some gender modification activities would be reported while others would be repressed from public view; only those offering a therapeutic rationale would be revealed. Moreover, such controllers and centers for control (such as Johns Hopkins and U. C. L. A. ) would continue to have a very specific philosophy about what women and men should be, how they should act, and what functions they should perform in society. In fact, gender identity clinic research and treatment has already been funded by grants from the National Institute of Mental Health and other government-affiliated funding sources. All this is happening, and will continue to happen, of course, in the name of science and therapy,and with the denial that any social engineering is taking place. Here we have institutional sexism at its most functional capacity.A dystopian perspective, some will say, but such perspectives have a way of highlighting present and future reality by daring to predict what most persons do not, or choose not to, perceive. The point is that sex roles already do not have to be “ forced” upon people; most quickly give “ informed consent. ” But feminism has been fast chipping away at the institutions of sex-role conditioning in this society. Threatened commentators from a patriarchal perspective have been quick to call feminism “sexual suicide. ”26 Just as Drs. Vernon Mark, William Sweet, and Frank Ervin suggested in the Journal o f the American Medical Association that psychotechnology could be used for the repression of violence in the Detroit ghetto rebellion of 1967, 27 it is not inconceivable that Drs. X, Y, and Z could propose sexual technology for the repression of sex-role deviancy. It has been done before (e. g., clitori-dectomies) and it can be done again. It would all be part and parcel of present “voluntaristic” therapies for the repression of deviancy. Individuals undergo psychosurgery giving “informed consent” ; parents, on advice of school administrators and physicians, sign “ informed consent”papers to have Ritalin administered to their children in public-school centers; women “ consentingly” undergo unnecessary hysterectomies for prophylactic reasons such as the vague “ threat” of uterine cancer (imagine a prophylactic penectomy! ) The potential for the benevolent control of sex-role behavior is enormous. It is my contention that it has already begun in the gender identity clinics. But control here has entered with a whimper, not with a bang. And conformity is being enforced in the name of therapy, at the individual’s request, and with the effect of 90 percent“ satisfied customers. ” If behaviorist philosophers such as B. F. Skinner are right, and behaviorist technicians such as Jose Delgado remains active, then future social controllers can replace control-through-torture with control-through-pleasure. What is becoming possible with Delgado’s electronic brain stimulation (ESB) is also becoming possible with transsexual surgery. The following two observations are not all that different. From Delgado: Electrodes were implanted in her right temporal lobe and upon stimulation of a contact located in the superior part about thirty millimeters below the surface, the patient reported a pleasant tingling sensation in the left side of her body “ from my face down to the bottom of my legs. ” She started giggling and making funny comments, stating that she enjoyed the sensation “ very m uch. ”Repetition of these stimulations made the patient more communicative and flirtatious, and she ended by openly expressing her desire to marry the therapist.. . . The second patient expressed her fondness for the therapist (who was new to her), kissed his hands, and talked about her immense gratitude for what was being done for her. And in the case of transsexuals:Typical comments after the operation included feelings of deep satisfaction at having achieved, as they felt, a true female status, despite admission that they were in fact only castrated, feminized males. They reported an absence o f self-consciousness and a feeling of being at ease and of having ultimately achieved a happy state with more peace of mind. Increased feelings of femininity occurred along with the development of a sense o f identity with all women. They began to think o f themselves as women rather than as disabled males. The fear of detection and of being suspected disappeared despite the fact that several were not entirely credible as females.Several described a sense of release and a change of mental attitude; they felt that it was now impossible to prove that they were not women. Most expressed a level of satisfaction in their new castrated status far superior to anything they had experienced as men. Acceptance as women by other women and by the world at large was their ultimate satisfaction. The possession of a female vulva was of secondary importance to this. In both examples, we see expressions of sweet, intense, and protracted satisfaction or, as one commentator has called it, “total body orgasm. ” Humans have been known to withstand even the most intense torture. It is doubtful,however, that we could withstand the most intense pleasure. * As William Irwin Thompson has noted: If the momentary “total orgasm” experienced when a drug addict injects Methedrine is sufficient to alter the personality, then it is obvious th at a total body orgasm protracted over a period o f hours or days would be sufficient to alter a person’s perception o f time, his perception o f his own life history, and the self-image and character structure derived from these. From the point o f view o f the behavioral scientist, this would be pleasant work in what could be amiable surroundings. The transsexual counselors’ and technicians’ apparent purpose, of course, is neither to control nor to create massage parlors of pleasure, but to provide therapeutic relief for those persons who feel themselves burdened with“the wrong mind in the wrong body. ” However, the final irony, as Thompson has stated, is that “at the end of humanism, it is the human body that has become the battleground. ” 31 I would add further than the real final irony is that at the nemesis of patriarchal civilization, all the silicone breasts and artificial vaginas cannot put man back together again!TRANSSEXUALISM AS MEDICAL EXPERIMENTATIONTherapy has historically covered a multitude of medical sins. The welfare of the individual or the welfare of society♦A drienne Rich has suggested in contrast to this interpretation, th a t w hat really happens is th a t control works through the c o n tro ller’s pow er to cut o f f pleasure at any point, rather than through his pow er to confer pleasure. She also points o u t th a t there is a “ social situ a tio n o f pleasure” to which persons are conditioned. F or example, a w om an w ho is socialized to identify orgasmic pleasure with being handled and controlled by a m an will m ore easily be stim ulated to pleasure by electrode brain im plants than a w om an whose“ social situation o f pleasure” does n o t include such handling and control. W hat Rich is saying is th at, for such w om en, ESB would n o t be pleasurable in any sense they could identify as free hum an beings.has often provided a camouflage for the worst forms of experimentation. We have seen how therapy relates to behavior control and modification. What also becomes obvious is that therapeutic goals can mask experimentation.First of all, the nature of transsexual surgery is experimental on physical grounds alone. There is a substantial amount of evidence that transsexual hormone therapy and surgery cause cancer. 32 Transsexual treatment is far from established as a safe medical procedure and as such is still experimental. Secondly, transsexuals are “volunteering”for surgery that they hope will relieve their sex role“dis-ease” of gender dissatisfaction and dysphoria. But there is no evidence to prove that transsexual surgery“cures” what is basically a problem of transcendence. In other words, sex-conversion surgery cannot bestow upon the transsexual the sense of self that she/he lacks. Furthermore, there is evidence, at least in some postoperative cases, that transsexuals themselves have come to realize this, but too late. 33 Third, and most importantly, we have yet to see the total “ fall out” effect of transsexualism in enforcing the further institutionalization of sex roles.Until this is obvious, transsexual surgery is still experimental in terms of what effects it will have upon an already rigidly gender-defined society. And if it is true that the female-to-constructed-male transsexual is merely a token who provides the “ illusion of the inclusion” of women into the transsexual context, * then one hypothesis that is being tested in the transsexual “laboratories” is whether or not it is possible for men to diminish the number of women and/or to create a new “breed” of females.Again, I would emphasize that this is not a mere feminist flight of fantasy. Scientists have already stated their“scientific” interest in diminishing the numbers of women.Take, for example, the words of the well-known biologist John Postgate in his ringing defense of sex-selection technology. Postgate defends what he calls a “male child”pill by offering it as a proposed panacea for world popula-♦See C hapter I.tion problems. In words that, upon first reading, appear to be satire, we quickly come to realize that Postgate is deadly serious (deadly to women, that is).Imagine what would happen if a male child pill became freely available throughout the world through the World Health Organization.Even in developed countries there is surprising prejudice among ordinary people in favour of having male children; among most African, Asian, Central and South American peoples, this prejudice amounts to almost an obsession. Countless millions of people would leap at the opportunity to breed male: no compulsion or even propaganda would be needed to encourage its use, only evidence of success by exam ple.. . . I hope, incidentally, that it is obvious why I specified a “ man child” pill; one selecting for females would not work. As far as the leftover women would be concerned, Postgate has thought of everything.All sorts of taboos would be expected and it is probable that a form of purdah would become necessary. Women’s right to work, even to travel alone freely, would probably be forgotten transiently.Polyandry might well become accepted in some societies; some might treat their women as queen ants, others as rewards for the most outstanding (or most determined) m ales.. . . Whether the world would come to resemble a giant b oy’s public school or a huge male prison is difficult to predict. Finally, the social results and economic consequences of all this, Postgate predicts, would be “self-regulating. ”Some of the ethical issues that have been discussed in the biomedical literature on human experimentation take a different turn when applied to transsexuals. 36 One issue that recurs in the literature on human experimentation again and again is that of weighing the integrity of an individual experimentee’s rights against the benefits that may accrue to society. This issue has often been discussed in the context of an individual who risks her/his health in an experiment designed to acquire knowledge about a specific disease thereby benefiting society, but not necessarily directly benefiting the individual concerned. However, there is a reversal of these priorities in the transsexualsituation, which focuses on the alleged benefits that accrue to the individual. In this instance, it is the ill effects that accrue to society that must be questioned. Transsexual surgery is professedly done to promote the individual transsexual’s right of synchronizing body and mind. Yet what society “gains” is a role conformist person who reinforces sex roles.Pleasure and Pain: Medical Theodicies. A second issue that has been discussed in the wider medical context of human experimentation is whether medicine is obliged to alleviate all suffering, that is, whether it should make the world“disease-free. ” In the case of transsexualism, there are many ethical objections to alleviating individual gender suffering at the expense of reinforcing, qualitatively and quantitatively, sex-role conformity. Ivan Illich’s words are applicable: “Medical civilization teaches that suffering is unnecessary, because pain can be technically eliminated.. . . The subject is better understood when the social situation in which pain occurs is included in the explanation of pain. ”37 However, my main point has been to show that the social situation has not been “included in the explanation of pain. ” Instead transsexual technicians and therapists and, by extension, transsexuals, engage in smothering the intrinsic question mark that gender“dis-ease” produces about the society in which it arises.Medical theodicies, however, unlike many religious ones, are not passive but proclaimedly curative. One’s reward is not in the next life but in this life. The ethic is reversed; do not suffer now but seek ye another body! The activity of this medical theodicy involves several steps. First of all, the transsexual therapists relate the anomic experiences of the gender-dissatisfied individual to a condition“known” as transsexualism Once named and institutionalized in gender identity clinics, the “condition” of transsexualism explains why one would have the wrong mind in the wrong body. Secondly, like all theodicies, the medical theodicy is undergirded by an attitude of the surrender of self to the ordering power of the transsexual therapistsand technicians. The medical order confronts transsexuals with a meaningful reality that comprehends them and all their experiences. It bestows sense on all their experiences that once seemed so unfathomable. It enables someone like Jan Morris to order, in chronological fashion, the steps in his transsexual odyssey from the age of three when he first “realized he was a woman” as he sat under his mother’s piano listening to Sibelius, to his conquest of Mt. Everest and last fling with masculinity. As Peter Berger has noted:The individual who adequately internalizes these meanings at the same time transcends himself. His birth, the various stages o f his biography. . . may now be interpreted by him in a manner that transcends the unique place of these phenomena in his experience. More importantly, the denial and surrender of the self is facilitated by the transsexual order. “This is the attitude of masochism, that is, the attitude in which the individual reduces himself to an inert and thinglike object vis-a-vis his fellowmen.. . . In this attitude, pain itself, physical or mental, serves to ratify the denial of self to the point where it may actually be subjectively pleasurable. ”What has been scarcely noted in many commentaries on transsexualism is the immense amount of physical pain that the surgery entails. Generally, this fact is totally minimized. Most postoperative transsexuals interviewed seldom commented on the amount of physical pain connected with their surgery. Are we to suppose no pain is involved?Anyone who has the slightest degree of medical knowledge knows that penectomies, mastectomies, hysterectomies, vaginoplasties, mammoplasties, and the like cannot be painless for those who undergo them. There is also the pain of anxiety about possible consequences of surgery-such as cancer or faulty healing. It seems that the silence regarding physical pain, on the part of the transsexual, can be explained only by an attitude of masochism, where one of the key elements of the transsexual order is indeed the denial not only of self but of physical pain to the point“ where it may actually be subjectively pleasurable, ” or at least subjectively negligible. At least one medical teamhas recognized this, although in muted and partial form.Categorizing primary clinical types who request sex reassignment, they label one type as masochist (or sadomasochists The masochists find that sexual arousal is facilitated by the experience of pain prior to sexual activity: they look upon the surgical excision of the genitalia (albeit unconsciously) as a form of masochistic adventure with the surgeon. Ernest Becker has stated that masochism is another word for “poverty of behavior, ” as is sadism.The sado-masochist is someone who has trouble believing in the validity and sanctity of people’s insides—their spirit, personality, or self. These insides could be his own or others’; if they are his own he tends to be masochistic, if they are others’ he tends to be called a sad istTranssexuals, as masochists, have great difficulty in believing in the validity and sanctity of their own insides.They are attempting to gain a sense of self not only through the acquisition of a new body, but through the pain involved in this process. Physical pain is a constant reminder to transsexuals that they are finally coming alive.In the transsexual’s quest for what may be regarded as a deeper self, pain provides the illusion of profound change.Pain is necessary to confirm what is regarded by the transsexual as more than a superficial change. This, in one way, explains why transsexuals do not settle for cross-dressing.Transvestism, for them, is too superficial and does not provide the bite or the painful experience of true conversion. Transsexuals, in their experience of pain, feel they have thus reached the essence of female or male existence.There is also the element of sadism which is, of course, the other side of the masochistic coin.The esthetics of the sadist is thus partly due to the deficiencies of his own self: in order for reality to be convincing, in order for him to feel his maximum powers, he wants the world to be peopled withconcrete manipulatable objects, with objects that do not have any elusive insides. This is the reason th at he expends all his effort on manipulating the flesh: either he cannot deal with the insides of others or he will not recognize these insides as valid. The transsexual therapist—in adjusting the transsexual mind and behavior to the stereotype of the desired sex—and the medical specialists—in adjusting the transsexual body to the desired body-type of the opposite sex—are dealing with transsexuals as manipulatable objects and reducing them to the world of appearances. “ Here we can understand the inter-changeability of the sadistic and masochistic postures. These are terms which describe one and the same thing: weakness and felt limitation in oneself; sharp duality of spirit and matter in people. ” 43 The sadist, as well as the masochist, cannot relate to the infinite possibilities of the spirit and confines these spiritual possibilities to the world of matter. Thus the potentiality for infinite be-ing is reduced to static being, where it can be rendered safe and deprived of its power to transform the gender-defined self and the gender-defined society.It is in this way that religious theodicies have restricted not only the selfhood but the social protest capacity of their believers. In so doing, of course, they have also directly legitimated the institutional order in question. As Berger has noted, “the theodicy constitutes an essentially sado-masochistic collusion, on the level of meaning, between oppressors and victims. ”44 On both sides, the result is one of “world-maintenance, ” and in the transsexual context, the maintenance of the particular institutional order of patriarchal society.A not-so-incidental by-product of this particular medical theodicy is the enlargement of medical knowledge about manipulating organs of the body which specifically function to define biological sex. This, of course, works to the ultimate benefit of the sadistic side of the theodicy, enabling medical research and technology to acquire a specialized body of scientific knowledge on the manipulation of human sexuality that probably could not be acquired by any other accepted medical procedure. At least two re­searchers have admitted this, although the admissions, of course, are mixed with therapeutic qualifications. Richard Green has stated:To a considerable degree, the medical profession itself is responsible for the limited extent of knowledge which currently exists about transsexualism and sex reassignment. While the current availability o f gonadal hormones and the refinement o f surgical techniques have made it possible to partly realize the fantasies and aspirations of the transsexual and have brought about an increasing demand for sex reassignment, medicine, by closing the door to these patients for study and treatment, has cast away a population from whom considerable information about gender identity and human sexuality could have been obtained. Particularly in the United States, until very recently, sex reassignment has been nearly unobtainable. Thus transsexuals sought treatm ent elsewhere. Consequently, neither preoperative screening nor postoperative evaluations were made. Rejection of the transsexual’s request, rather than preventing him from obtaining surgery, resulted in the highly motivated, affluent patient still being able to obtain his reassignment, but, in the process, being virtual y lost to scientific study. 45 (Italics mine. ) In a similar manner, Milton Edgerton has stated: The current availability of reputable physician teams who offer sincere efforts to understand and treat the transsexual patient may represent the greatest progress that medicine has made over the past decade in dealing with human gender disorders.. . . Certainly it of ers doctors an unrivaled opportunity to study and understand the dynamics of gender as it relates to human function and selfimagery. Plastic surgeons are beginning to realize that it is more im portant to correct the patient’s “ sense o f deform ity” or self-image than to correct his external or objective deform ity. 46 (Italics mine. )Thus transsexualism is made to appear as an “acceptable”medical venture in which scientific opportunism is admitted but only as linked to therapeutic and humanitarian goals.A third issue to consider is just how informed consent can be attained, especially in the face of so many unknown hazards about the experiment. First of all, a truly informed consent would highlight, for the transsexual, thewhole issue of sex roles and gender definitions themselves.It would reveal to him how moving from one stereotype to its opposite does not even minimally alter the social basis of sex-role conformity in this culture and how the transsexual, in undertaking surgery, is reinforcing this conformity. These are what might be called the social hazards of the transsexual experiment. My survey of the literature and first-hand interviews with transsexuals and transsexual clinicians thus far have revealed that these social hazards, or even their possibility, are not explored.Furthermore, it has generally been recognized that the withholding or distortion of any relevant knowledge that bears upon the experiment constitutes a violation of informed consent. It is questionable whether even the physical hazards of transsexual treatment and surgery are explained to the would-be transsexual.Finally, the issue of informed consent enters again in the context of the ethics of experimentation. Discussions on medical experimentation have focused on the question of whether a truly informed consent can ever be obtained from a “captive population. ”47 As I have shown, transsexuals are just such a captive population within a patriarchal society. Otto Guttentag has written: It is generally agreed in our culture, experimental subjects must be volunteers. What is m eant by the word is, first, th at the experimental subjects who agree to volunteer are judged by society as free in the psychological sense, as experiencing themselves ultimately as centers of autonomy, whatever the contingencies; and second, that they are free in the sociological sense, that is, not dependent upon the experimenter to satisfy their spiritual or physical needs. 48 (Italics m ine. )First of all, how are would-be transsexuals free “in the psychological sense”? How can they be ultimately “centers of autonomy” if their motivation to choose differently is held captive by a patriarchal society, so that even what they finally do choose (i. e., transsexual surgery) binds them even more firmly to th at society? Secondly, how are transsexuals free in the “ sociological sense” when in-deed they do depend upon the experimenters to “satisfy”their “spiritual needs” (the conviction and fulfillment of, for example, finally becoming a woman) and “physical needs” (e. g., acquiring the hormones and body of a woman)?Learning from the Nazi Experience. Much of the literature on medical experimentation has focused on the various captive populations of prisoners and mental patients, but the most notorious example of unethical medical experimentation on a captive population is the Nazi concentration camps. The example of the Nazi camps has often been cited in ethical arguments that attem pt to sensationalize and disparage opposing views. Furthermore, ethicists especially have used these experiments to throw sand in people’s eyes about such issues as abortion and euthanasia, and to create ethical arguments based on a kind of domino theory. In mentioning the Nazi experiments, it is not my purpose to directly compare transsexual surgery to what went on in the camps but rather to demonstrate that much of what did go on there can be of value in surveying the ethics of transsexualism.The specter of unethical medical experimentation loomed large after the publicity that was given to the Nazi concentration camps during World War Two. In fact, one of the first comprehensive codes of medical ethics, specifically dealing with the ethics of experimentation, emerged from the Nuremberg trials in the wake of the famous “ Doctors Trial” or, as it is sometimes called, the “ Trial of the Twenty-Three. ”49 The Nazi medical experiments read like a series of horror stories. The experiments were quite varied. High-aititude tests were done on prisoners to observe the point at which they stopped breathing. Inmates of the camps were subjected to freezing experiments to observe the changes that take place in a person during this kind of slow death, and also to determine the point of no return. Experiments in bone-grafting and injections with lethal viruses were commonplace. Themuch-publicized sterilization experiments were carried out on a massive scale at several camps, primarily by radiation and surgical means, for the purpose of seeing how many sterilizations could be performed in the least amount of time and most “economically” (thus anaesthesia was not used). However, the point of all this background is not merely to recite a list of atrocities, but to highlight several points that apply to the situation of transsexualism.As Thomas Szasz has noted: “ The activities of the Nazi physicians. . . were, unfortunately, not the aberrations of a holy healing profession imposed upon it by the terrors of a totalitarian regime, but, on the contrary, were the characteristic, albeit exaggerated, expressions of the medical profession’s traditional functions as instruments of social control. ” 50 Historically, many physicians aided the Inquisition, actively supported the military efforts of all nations, and today serve as an “extralegal police force” to control deviance, especially in the realm of psychiatry, which wields vast political powers. Today especially, it is no longer the alliance of church and state that should be feared, that is, theocracy, but rather the alliance between medicine and the state, that is, pharmacracy. 51 It is medicine that presently functions as the new secular religion, with the continuous aid of sustained government support.Not so incidentally, some transsexual research has been funded by federal grants.The Nazi doctors undertook many of their experiments in the name of science but for the purpose of supposedly gaining racial knowledge (e. g., how did skull measurements differ between Aryans and non-Aryans? ). The doctors who treat transsexuals undertake many of their experiments in the name of therapy but for purposes of gaining sexual knowledge (e. g., is it possible to construct a functional vagina in a male body? ). What we are witnessing in the transsexual context is a science at the service of a patriarchal ideology of sex-role conformity in the same way that breeding for blond hair and blue eyes became a so-called science at the service of Nordic racial conformity.This leads into the second point to be learned from the Nazi experience—the questionableness of detached scientific fixation and so-called objective knowledge. It must be remembered that such fixation and “objectivity”led to one of the most profound inhumanities that the world has ever witnessed. It is this kind of fixation, accompanied by a cult of objective truth, which helps to explain why the Nazi doctors did what they did. “ A profound inhumanity had long been presaged. This is the alchemy of the modem age, the transmogrification of subject into object, of man into a thing against which the destructive urge may wreak its fury without havoc. ” 52 One must remember that many of the Nazi physicians whose experiments were the most brutal refused to recognize in the end that they had done wrong. Dr. Karl Brandt, for example, during his trial at Nuremberg, offered his living body for medical experiments like those he had conducted. 53 Before Brandt met his death at the side of the gallows, he made a final speech, which included these words: “It is no shame to stand on this scaffold. I served my Fatherland as others before me. ” It is this kind of scientific fixation, among other things, that impels doctors to pursue transsexual surgery when there are so many more pressing concerns: when our maternal morbidity and infant mortality statistics are outrageously high; when there are still no adequate or foolproof means of birth control; and when breast cancer ranks as one of the greatest killers of women. In other words, transsexual surgery is unnecessary surgery, performed in part because of the “objective” knowledge that it offers to researchers and technicians on a subject that is not knowable from other sources; it diverts time, attention, energy, and research money away from other medical areas that are more pressing and need attention; it provides a “marketplace, ” so to speak, for the surgical talents of doctors; and it fattens doctors’ wallets. Transsexual surgery is not cheap. Prices range from $3000 to $12, 000. As stated previously, it is significant also that both govern-ment and private medical insurance plans cover the cost of surgery in some cases. This has always been a financial incentive for doctors in performing surgery.Unnecessary surgery is spiraling, especially during the last quarter of a century. A House of Representatives subcommittee reported in July of 1975: “If the scalpels of American surgeons remain as active as they are today, nearly half the women in the country will undergo hysterectomies by the time they’re 70, and one of every three men will have hernia surgery. ” 55 The same committee reported that at least one third of these operations was unnecessary and concluded that money was a basic factor in their performance. “The business of surgery has boomed in the last decade to become a $25 billion pursuit involving more than 18 million operations a year. ” s6 It is not inconceivable that transsexual surgery (and various modifications of it), although it is being done on a minimal level presently, could also skyrocket to high numbers, and that the medical labeling of a condition “known” as transsexualism will increase the number of people with exceptional medical consumer status.The third point to be learned from the Nazi experiments concerns the information that accrued to medical science because of them. This is not a factor to which most commentators refer. William Shirer, author of The Rise and Fall o f the Third Reich, claims that, “in the use of concentration camp inmates and prisoners of war as human guinea pigs, very little, if any, benefit to science was achieved. ” 57 However, there is other evidence that explicitly states that certain medical experiments that went on in the camps were later taken up and used by science, although the origins of such research were generally hidden from publication. Guttentag remarks that“ contrary to general belief, some of the experiments that those men performed were scientifically valuable and are quoted in Western literature. ” 58 One example of this is the low temperature and freezing experiments.While a medical procedure or experiment should notbe determined by its origin, nevertheless its origin is instructive. Applying this to the transsexual context, it is significant that the first physician on record to perform sex-conversion surgery was a German by the name of F. Z.Abraham, who reported the first case in 1931. Furthermore, Benjamin relates that the Institute of Sexual Science in Berlin did much work on transvestism (and probably transsexualism before it was named such) under the leadership of Dr. Magnus Hirschfeld. Benjamin states that it had a “famous and rich museum, clinic, and lecture hall. ”In 1933, he says, it was destroyed by the Nazis because,“ The Institute’s confidential files were said to have contained too many data on prominent Nazis, former patients of Hirschfeld, to allow the constant threat of discovery to persist. ” 59 Benjamin visited Hirschfeld and his Institute many times during the 1920s.We also know that at least one transsexual operation was done in the camps. Joseph Wechsberg in his editing of The Murderers Among Us: The Simon Wiesenthal Memoirs recounts Wiesenthal’s recollection of a victim of the camp’s experimental surgery.I met another boy whom the scientists of Auschwitz, after several operations, had successfully turned into a woman. He was then thirteen years old. After the war, a complicated operation was performed on him in a West German clinic. The doctors restored the man’s physical masculinity, bu t they couldn’t give back his emotional equilibrium. By this comparison, I do not mean to exploit the very real difference between a conditioned “voluntary” medical procedure performed on adult transsexuals and the deliberate sadism performed on unwilling bodies and minds in the camps. However, it is important to understand that some transsexual research and technology may well have been initiated and developed in the camps and that, in the past, as well as now, surgery was not performed for the present professed goal of therapy, but to accumulate medical knowledge.At this point, it is the task of this book to suggestdifferent, and what I regard as more adequate, answers to the questions that transsexualism raises. In Chapter VI, I place transsexualism in a more philosophical context by discussing an ethic of integrity. It is my hope that this discussion will not be regarded as abstract, or as distracting, but that it will form the basis for viewing the deeper and more mythic aspects of the transsexual phenomenon.C H A P T E R VITowardthe Developmento f an Ethico f IntegrityT h o s e who advocate transsexualism emphasize certain values. Primarily, the transsexual empire promotes integration. In this chapter, I propose an ethic of integrity. There is a crucial distinction between integration and integrity.Briefly, integration means putting together a combination of parts in order to achieve completeness or wholeness. In contrast, the word integrity means an original wholeness from which no part can be taken away. It is my contention that, in a deep philosophical sense, transsexual therapy and treatment have encouraged integration solutions rather than helping individuals to realize an integrity of be-ing.In its emphasis on integration, much of the recent psychological, medical, and medical-ethical literature on transsexualism, and the solutions they propose, resemble theories of androgyny. In many ways, contemporary transsexual treatment is a modem version of medieval, androgy- nous alchemy where stereotypical femininity is integrated with a male genotype to produce a transsexually constructed woman. As alchemy treated the qualitative as quantitative in its attempts to isolate vital forces of the universe within its laboratories of matter, transsexual treatment does the same by reducing the quest for the vital forces of selfhood to the artifacts of hormones and surgical appendages. Transsexualism is comparable to the theme of androgyny that represents biological hermaphroditism, because ultimately the transsexual becomes a surgically constructed androgyne, and thus a synthetic hybrid. Furthermore, the transsexual also becomes a sex-stereotyped hermaphrodite, often unwittingly displaying his former masculine gestures, behavior, and style while attempting to conform to his new feminine role.The first drafts of this chapter were entitled “An Ethic of Androgyny. ” But as I examined the androgynous tradition and its uses in recent literature, problems of etymology, history, and philosophy arose that were not evident at first glance. These necessitated the choice of a different ethical vision, which I have called integrity. The word integrity means an original unity from which no part can be taken away—thus an original wholeness of person-hood not divided by sex-role definitions. Androgyny, in contrast, connotes integration—putting together the parts of masculinity and femininity in order to complete that which is supposedly incomplete. This gives a clue to the reality of the transsexual process, which can be viewed as adding the desired body and role parts to the “native-born” self, while discarding other parts, yet never going beyond the parts themselves to a more intrinsic unity of personhood. Thus, what I call an ethic of integrity is an attem pt to discuss an original unity before the Fall of sex-role stereotyping. Until those contemplating transsexual surgery come to realize that such a step does nothing to promote this integrity on both a personal and social level, they will continue to settle for many of the false and partial modes of androgynous integration.THE ANDROGYNOUS TRADITIONThe androgynous tradition in theology and philosophy represents many varied but also many similar themes. * First of all, and most often, androgyny symbolizes primal per-sonhood or original humanity, in its bisexual or asexual condition. Maleness and femaleness were perceived as divisions resulting from the Fall and not originally intended to be part of primordial personhood. Thus, for example, Adam in the Garden of Eden is represented as originally combining and/or transcending maleness and femaleness.Such androgynous notions are present in the rabbinic commentaries on Genesis, in the Gnostics, in the Jewish Cabala, and in John Scotus Erigena. In this same context, androgyny became a salvation or reunification theme, bringing divided personhood, maleness and femaleness, back into its original and divinely intended unity of either biological bisexuality (i. e., biological hermaphroditism where maleness and femaleness are incorporated) or asex-uality (i. e., beyond biological combinations of maleness and femaleness). In some descriptions, this original unified condition approximates an angelic state of personhood beyond biological sex differences and limitations.In this sense, androgyny represents a partial recognition of an integrity that goes beyond male and female bodies.Many writers see Jesus as the unique bearer of androgynous humanity. This conception of Jesus, implicit in some of the Gnostic literature, is developed by Erigena in his portrayal of the Resurrected Jesus, and reaches its apex in Jacob Boehme. Other writers see the very nature of God as an androgynous unity, sometimes referred to as the Divine Androgyne, and sometimes portrayed as both male♦ F or an extensive and specific delineation o f th e androgynous traditio n in theology and philosophy, from its prepatriarchal origins, through Plato, th e Midrashim, th e Gnostics, and others, u p through nineteenth-century French philosophy and social th eo ry , see: Janice G. R aym ond, “ Transsexualism: An Etiological and Ethical Analysis”(U npublished P h. D. dissertation, Boston College, 1977). and female in its manifestations. This conception of God is most evident in the Cabala and in Jacob Boehme.However, there is very often an undercurrent of male mothering in connection with androgyny. Although the primal Adam is written about as androgynous or hermaphroditic, one is still left with the impression that the original human was more male than female. This undercurrent is conveyed in the language of the Cabala: “ [Eve] existed in Adam, in potentiality from the first. ” The language here is most important, for if anything, biologically speaking, it was Adam who was contained in Eve from the beginning. Other statements imply that it was Eve (woman) who separated from man, giving the impression that the female part of the original androgyne was more fragmented and less perfect than the male, so that even though the primal person was supposedly androgynous, this creature was composed of one distinctly more perfect part and one distinctly less perfect part. Thus the male portion of androgyny remains steady and constant, while the female is the wayward, unsteady half. In the Gnostics, moreover, the female must make herself male before a salvific androgyny can be reached.As a result of this original division of the sexes, androgyny came to symbolize also completeness by reunification in love and sexual expression. In most authors, heterosexual love was seen to be an androgynous theme, uniting that which was originally separated (female and male) in the life and act of love. This heterosexual love was perceived as the bringing together of external complements.But in other authors, especially Plato, homosexual love also functioned as a form of androgyny needing no female half to complete itself, but finding the “ female” within the self through loving another who was like the self.Further, the theme of androgyny is often meant to symbolize the overcoming of all dichotomies. Here, the integration of female and male represents the overcoming of other dualisms, such as spirit and matter. However, this explanation of androgyny implies that male-female sym­bols are only representative of larger issues. Such an explanation still begs the question and does not adequately explain why these particular sexual symbols were chosen, and why female-male is seen as the archetypal dualism in which other dualisms participate. It fails to look at the concrete and specific symbol of the division between female and male.Androgyny is often used to imply misogyny; that is, its attainment requires the denigration of women. Misogyny takes many forms. In the Gnostics, the female must first make herself male before becoming androgynous, but no comparable process was necessary for the man. The male, it seems, had a direct route to androgyny but the female, by virtue of her inferior starting point of femaleness, had to pass through the supposed higher level of maleness before she could reach the highest level—androgyny. In Plato, androgyny is mixed with misogyny to support male homosexuality which is regarded as the superior form of love.Intimacy can only occur between two equals—that is, between two men. Plato implies that an equal relationship is not possible between a woman and a man. John Scotus Erigena, who uses androgyny as a reunification theme, also maintains that, in the Fall, mind (man) was led astray by sentience or corporeality (woman). Therefore the man must rule woman, since soul must rule sense, as it will do in the restored life. Nikolai Berdyaev mingles androgyny and misogyny by reducing woman to procreation and uplifting man to creation, neither of which, he says, is complete without the other.Androgyny often refers to the incorporation of the so-called feminine principle (sometimes called the female principle) within the male or within the dominant male ethos. This conception of androgyny is evident in Greek drama, especially in such plays as Lysistrata and Oedipus, and also in Comte and the SaintrSimonians. It should be emphasized that this is not comparable to the Gnostic injunctions which state that a woman must make herself male. Where men are exhorted to incorporate the feminine or female principle, it is clear that they do not have to make themselves female (as the females in the Gnostic literature were exhorted to do), but rather they can assimilate the female principle and thus get the best of both worlds while still remaining male. In no writing on androgyny is the male exhorted to make himself female before he can become androgynous.Lastly, in the nineteenth century, androgyny becomes a theme of social reform. Where it had previously been applied to individual conceptions of personhood, it now becomes a way of talking about an ideal society. Beginning with Auguste Comte and up to the Saint-Simonians, androgyny comes to symbolize human progress, universal unity, and the removal of social oppression, especially that of female and class oppression.The androgyne is a myth and like all myths is constantly reinterpreted, depending on different preoccupations and experiences. But a primary, common element in all of the various usages of androgyny is the notion of integration as completion.INTEGRATION VERSUS INTERGITYThe word androgyny is formed from integrating the Greek aner and gyne (with the male classically coming first). This gives the impression that if one puts the archetypal masculine and feminine together, one will somehow arrive at an adequate whole—but a whole that is formed from two inadequate halves. The question thus becomes, how can two inadequate halves form an adequate whole? As Mary Daly has phrased it, androgyny connotes “scotch-taping John Wayne and Brigitte Bardot together. ”1 Further evidence of this pseudo-organicism can be noted when perusing dictionary definitions of androgyny, where there is reference to plant or human hybrids.The latter, throughout the androgynous tradition, becomes synonymous with physical hermaphroditism.Nor would the term gynandry be adequate. Although the female root of the word comes first, the primary image is still one of the sexual sphinx.In appearance, the words androgyne and androgen are quite similar. In fact, androgyny is sometimes spelled an-drogeny. Thus to speak of androgynizing humanity comes dangerously close to androgenizing or “male-izing” humanity. This, of course, was one mode of androgyny that was expressed in the Gnostic tradition. However, an andro-genous or male-ized humanity is no mere myth, nor is it simply a clever play on words, in light of some of the statements in John Money’s work on sex differences.In Man & Woman, Boy & Girl, “ fetally androgenized females” develop not only physically male characteristics (perhaps an enlarged clitoris or excessive body hair) but also supposedly have the propensity to develop psycho-socially conditioned, masculine behavior.On a mytho-metaphorical level, the Gnostics exhorted women to attain the androgynous state of unified humanity by first making themselves male. “ For every woman who makes herself male will enter the Kingdom of Heaven. ”2 No comparable process of making one’s self female is necessary for men to attain androgynous actualization and salvation. Once more, now in the scientific literature on sex differences, androgenizing—or making one’s self male—becomes normative for androgyny.The split-level hybrid or integration model of androgyny prevails currently. The basic notion of androgyny in Carolyn Heilbrun’s Toward a Recognition o f Androgyny is, as the book jacket acknowledges, “the realization of man in woman and woman in man. ” Heilbrun is in good company here. Unfortunately even the brilliant Virginia Woolf had a similar notion of androgyny in A Room o f One's Own. She wrote:And I went on amateurishly to sketch a plan o f the soul so th at in each o f us two powers preside, one male one female; and in the man’s brain, the man predominates over the woman and in the woman’s brain the woman predominates over the man. The normal and comfortable state o f being is when the two live in harmony to ­ gether, spiritually cooperating. If one is a man, still the woman part o f the brain must have effect; and a woman also must have intercourse with the man in her. Coleridge perhaps meant this when he said that a great mind is androgynous.. . . It is when this fusion takes place that the mind is fully fertilized and uses all its faculties. Likewise Betty Roszak has a hybrid or integration model of androgyny. In an essay entitled “The Human Continuum, ” which takes great pains to stress that if we even“think of ourselves as ‘a woman’ or ‘a man’ we are already participating in a fantasy of language, ” Roszak concludes:“Perhaps with the overcoming of women’s oppression, the woman in man will be allowed to emerge. ”Obviously, Heilbrun, Woolf, and Roszak are each attempting to go beyond stereotyped definitions of masculinity and femininity. Yet it also ought to be obvious that if this is the desired goal, then writers cannot use the language of oppression nor incorporate oppressive definitions of the self to talk about a nonoppressive ideal of the same self. For in reality, the language and imagery of androgyny is the language of dominance and servitude combined. One would not put master and slave language or imagery together to define a free person. Therefore, any serious effort to describe an androgynous ideal must take issue with Heilbrun’s assertion that “so wedded are we to the conventional definitions of ‘masculine’ and ‘feminine’that it is impossible to write about androgyny without using these terms in their accepted, received sense. ” Heilbrun fails to perceive here the eminent co-optability of this kind of language.The co-optive potential of androgyny lies in its ability to integrate, assimilate, or absorb almost anything, particularly any sexual issue. Androgyny is not only a word that lends itself to co-optation. The vision it attempts to describe is equally susceptible to co-optation.The most blatant example of this kind of co-optation appeared in a Ramparts article in December 1973. Here, androgyny was identified with what was called “The Third Sex. ” This “new androgyny” was supposedly released by technological culture. This freeing, together with “thedeep exploration of our psyches by acid and meditation, ”gave persons permission to explore “our true androgynous natures, the anima and the animus, both of which we all possess. ” Men are coming to realize their feminine side and women are “ excavating their masculine identities. ”6 As models for the “new androgyny, ” James Nolan, the author, gives us “pansexual rock images” of David Bowie, Janis Joplin, Mick Jagger, and Bette Midler. “David and Mick and Janis and Bette: consider the possibilities. ” A fuller notion of “The Third Sex” emerges, “fertilized” by Women’s and Gay Liberation, “both of which began with strains of either man-hating or woman-hating, ”according to the author.It seemed for awhile th at Women’s Liberation, for all the deep-seated misanthropy it generated, was becoming with a lot o f pushy verbalizing and hard-edged power struggling, a caricature o f the very masculine traits which the women despised. Gay Liberation, with its indigenous misogyny, had taken to playing house in the superficial deco-parlor on narcissism and taste, a realm traditionally ruled over by the very women the gay mentality found so ludicrous. But perhaps these two militant liberation movements were just awkward and adolescent phases we al had to pass through, pimply and self-conscious and blatantly extreme, to arrive at a more whole type o f sexual identity: a way o f seeing how the other half (of ourselves) lives. Here we have the ultimate co-optation of the Women’s Movement—an “adolescent stage” that we have already passed through. Androgyny becomes the great leap forward, a synonym for an easily accessible human liberation that turns out to be sexual liberation—a state of being that men can enter as easily as women through the “cheap grace” of the “ wider” countercultural revolution. What androgyny comes to mean here, in fact, is sexual revolution, phrased in the language of “The Third Sex. ”Sex (fucking), not power, becomes the false foundation of liberation.Given the difficulties with the word and its eminent susceptibility to being co-opted, is it worth even trying to talk about whatever was intended by the word andro­ gyny. The questions were and are still real, but the term androgyny obscured the reality. In fact, my intention is not to integrate the feminine and the masculine but to transcend them.The word integrity more adequately conveys possibilities of transcendence. First of all, it is a word/vision that avoids the pitfalls of the integration model of androgyny.There are various and subtle meanings of the word integrity that render it more adequate to express a meaningful vision of what many of us previously wanted androgyny to convey.In comparison to integration, which is defined in the Oxford English Dictionary as “the making up or composition of a whole by adding together or combining the separate parts or elements” and in comparison to integrate, which means “ to complete or perfect (what is imperfect) by the addition of the necessary parts, ” integrity is described in the following way: “The condition of having no part or element taken away or wanting; undivided or unbroken state. . . something undivided; an integral whole.. . . The condition of not being marred or violated; unimpaired or uncorrupted condition; original perfect state; soundness. ” Integration gives a certain validity to the parts themselves and to the process of putting those parts together. In contrast, integrity reverses this connotation and validates an original unity from which no part may be taken. Integrity gives us a warrant for laying claim to a wholeness that is rightfully ours to begin with and that centuries of patriarchal socialization to sex roles and stereotyping have eroded.Thus an intuition of integrity, in this sense, is characteristic of the texture of be-ing (becoming) and prior to cultural definitions of masculinity and femininity. It is an original state that does not reside in a static historical past.Rather, integrity is the constant unfolding of a personal and social process that has the potentiality of generating for all of us a future vision of becoming, beyond a gender-defined society.This original state of be-ing, this condition of integrity,may indeed have been what the androgynous myths of the primal person were pointing toward. That is, proponents of androgyny may have dislocated what was really revelatory about the androgynous vision by speaking about it on a biological or hermaphroditic level. The real mytho-historical memory may have been that of an original psychosocial integrity where men were not masculine, nor women feminine, and where these definitions and prescribed norms of personhood did not exist.The real Fall may not have been the division into biological sexes but the separation into oppressive sex roles and stereotypes. Such a separation has cleft humanity into two static states of being. What the myths of the Fall from androgynous humanity into maleness and femaleness may more fully tell us about is humanity’s initial loss of the intuition of integrity in which human development has been channeled into a two-track system of masculinity and femininity. Thus “ salvation” is not achieved by the union of the two but by transcending masculinity and femininity. Until those contemplating it come to realize that transsexualism will dislocate the basic sense of unity within themselves, which I have called the intuition of integrity, they will continue to settle for false and partial modes of androgyny.ANDROGYNY, INTEGRITY, AND TRANSSEXUALISMMany of the false and partial modes of androgyny give us clues to why transsexualism is a stunted attem pt in the quest for integrity. First of all, it could be said that the transsexual, like the biological androgyne, is a physical hybrid. Of course transsexuals do everything possible to disguise the hybrid nature of their bodies.Constant electrolysis is used to remove the telltale remains of male beard stubble and localized hair residues.Cosmetic surgery is continuously sought to promote the aesthetic appearance of the post-operative body.In spite of all these measures, however, the chromo- somes remain that of one’s native-born sex, and their effects constantly remind transsexuals, in various unexpected physical ways, that they are really not the desired opposite sex but rather surgically constructed androgynes.Instead of developing genuine integrity, the transsexual becomes a synthetic product. Synthetic parts, such as chemical hormones and surgical artifacts of false vaginas and breasts, produce a synthetic whole. Furthermore, the fact that transsexuals are synthetic products is one clue to their future demise. There have been some cases of cancer reported in the literature; much dissatisfaction with artificial breasts that slip, artificial vaginas that contract, and artificial penises that don’t function sexually; and some reports of suicide, attempted suicide, and despondency after surgery has taken place. 9 This is not to say that whatever is natural is necessarily good, but rather that it is the harmony or integrity of the whole that is good.As hormonally and surgically constructed androgynes, transsexuals are radically at odds with their internal environment or “ bio-ecosystem” Initially, Rachel Carson demonstrated that chemical pesticides were disastrous to the planet. Barry Commoner followed by showing how so-called technological “ advances” have debilitated our ecosystems, because everything is related to everything else. In a similar manner, evidence is beginning to prove that hormone treatment and surgery are destructive intrusions of the total “ bio-ecosystems” of transsexuals.That is, one cannot expect to alter sexual organs without in some way negatively altering the rest of the body. Such debilitation may be the body’s defense and retaliation for the disruptive hormonal and surgical changes.As well as being surgical hermaphrodites, transsexuals are also sex-stereotyped hermaphrodites, in such things as gestures, behavior, and style. Many articles on transsexuals have testified that, while assuming the gender identity and role of the opposite sex, transsexuals have not entirely left their native-born gender identity and role behind. The example of Paul(a) Grossman, discussed in Chapter III, is acase in point. Earlier we noticed the same androgynous mix in Jan Morris’s case. And this is precisely what it is—androgynous. Transsexuals often betray this socially constructed hermaphroditism.Insofar as the androgynous ideal was based upon an opposition of supposed opposites, so too is transsexualism.Just as the androgynous tradition accepted the opposition of masculinity and femininity, positing them as dualisms in order to reconcile them in the androgynous ideal, so too does transsexualism accept these basic dualisms in order, however, to reject one and gravitate toward the other.With androgyny and with transsexualism, the categories of masculinity and femininity are accepted on their own ground, either to be united in an androgynous motif or, in the case of transsexuals, to be divided so that one can be accepted and the other rejected. Both androgynous and transsexual advocates fail to understand that the basic point is not to accept the dualisms for the sake of reunification or, in the transsexual’s case, for the sake of conversion, but to go beyond and transcend both.This is a central point, and this is precisely where integrity must serve as an ethic rather than androgynous integration. One cannot take two false or inadequate halves and put them together, or reject one in order to accept the other. Rather one must transcend the dualisms to begin with, by not accepting them as adequate descriptions of reality.It is precisely in this realm that the transsexual unwittingly settles for androgyny instead of integrity. He latches on to what is perceived as the “ other half” of humanity, for example, femininity, and credits it with an adequacy and integrity of its own, without asking deeper questions.Instead of realizing that femininity has only an artificial and socially constructed status, he accepts it as an adequate definition of personal and social integrity.A genuine integrity would not support an integration of this sort, based upon the acceptance of false dualisms and a false opposition of opposites. It would not “help” transsexuals to integrate their gender suffering into a “meaning­ ful” conformity where deeper questions of social and personal reality are not confronted. Instead it would genuinely help the transsexual to interpret pain and deviance, thus bringing about more genuine changes. For example, counseling based on an ethic of integrity would supply the language needed to understand transsexualism within the social context of sex-role stereotyping and conformity. In other words, it would meet the problem on its deeper ground, that is, the social, and not dislocate it to another level, that is, the medical-technical level. It would not replace gender suffering with an artificially prolonged and synthetic maintenance of the problem so that the transsexual becomes an uncritical and dependent spectator of his deeply decaying self. 10 Thus interpretation is a key element of an ethic of integrity, especially in the counseling situation.The therapeutic ethic that presently governs transsexual counseling and surgery does not genuinely promote either personal or social integrity. An intrinsic element of personal integrity is autonomy. As Ivan Illich has pointed out, anyone who “becomes dependent on the management of his intimacy. . . renounces his autonomy, and his health must decline. ” 11 Transsexual surgery promotes the ethic that the problem of transsexualism cannot be confronted on an autonomous level but needs the intervention of the medical and surgical, as well as psychological, specialities.Nor is social integrity enhanced by transsexual surgery.An ethic that promotes sex-role conformity is hardly contributing to the integrity of the social system. Transsexual surgery turns into an antisocial activity that promotes the worst aspects of a patriarchal society by encouraging adaptation to its sex roles. Gender identity clinics can be perceived as future centers of “ sex-role control, ” where the potential social planners might well encourage, facilitate, and maintain sex-role conformity for nontranssexuals.Another perspective that the androgynous tradition offers on the phenomenon of transsexualism is its built-in misogyny. In many of the writings on androgyny, the female half of the hybrid was regarded as inferior. Thusfemales who were striving for androgyny were first exhorted to make themselves male. However, in transsexualism, we might say that the misogyny theme is apparently inverted into a kind of philogyny (love of woman), this time by the male making himself female. But what really happens is that the biological female is no longer even necessary. Thus misogynism is escalated.TRANSSEXUALISM AND TRANSCENDENCEThe transsexual odyssey can be viewed as a quest for transcendence, an effort to go beyond the limits of the self (symbolized by the acquisition of a new body). But from the perspective of transcendence, transsexualism’s greatest weakness is its deflection of the “ courage to be, ” and its short-circuiting of existential risk, creativity, world-building, and social healing—all of which are elements of genuine transcendence. Transsexualism achieves this deflection and short-circuiting by drawing up body boundaries to the ever-present and future quest for fuller and more authentic becoming.There is no doubt that selfhood presupposes embodiment and that our bodies cannot be ignored in any authentic development of selfhood. However, even many persons who have been wracked with severe physical pain or deformed by natural or imposed crippling agents have been able to transcend these conditions. Our bodies are truly ourselves, but are preconditionally intrinsic to our being persons. As Mary Daly has pointed out, the spirit can always contain the body but the body cannot always contain the spirit. She notes that a radical feminist analysis will see the problem to be one of overcoming the containment of spirit by body. 12 In contrast to the transsexual who embodies transcendence, I suggest that we “enspirit. ”Daly explains this word further:The process of the Self enspiriting the Self is Dis-possession. The enspiriting Self is not anti-matter, bu t pro-matter, freeing m atter from its restricting/restricted role of vessel/container, unfreezing m atter so th at it can flow with spirit, fly with spirit.  This is to say that who we are should not be defined by exclusive reference to our bodies. Our existence transcends, in important ways, the limitations imposed upon us by our bodies.Transsexuals, however, move totally in the realm of the body while thinking that they are transcending the body.To use Daly’s terminology, they are “possessed” by their bodies and cannot confront and transcend that possession.Transsexuals are thus saying that who they are is irrevocably determined by what body they are bom with and by what body they surgically convert to. This is only a partial truth. We are, of course, our bodies, but we are not dominated by them We might say that the body is part of the creative ground of existence, but we are not bound by that structure in the full creative sense. Our spirit is bound to our bodies, as its creative ground, but surpasses it through freedom and choice. The body is present in all our choices, but as total persons, we have the freedom to be other than what culturally accompanies a male or female body. Instead, however, transsexuals become enfettered by both the unwanted body they reject and the desired body they take on, in the sense that the former dictates that it is not possible to live without the latter.Transsexualism is thus an inadequate “myth of transcendence. ” Herbert Richardson has written of three myths of transcendence: separation and return, conflict and vindication, integrity and transformation. 15 Transsexualism could be said to be representative of the first two myths, both of which Richardson perceives as inadequate. The first is the myth of separation and return.Transsexualism is a cyclic event—an ever-recurring exitus and reditus. The transsexual leaves masculinity only to return to femininity, which are different sides of the same coin and which ultimately reduce him to the same poverty of behavior. This sameness is attested to by the facile interchangeability o f roles.Furthermore, in embarking on the surgical journey, the transsexual will very often return for more and more sur-gery of a “ corrective” or “cosmetic” variety. The tendency toward polysurgery, on the transsexual’s part, and its willing dispensation by the transsexual technicians, is one more example of the exitus-reditus myth of transsexual“transcendence. ” In a very real sense, the first act of surgery is permission to return for more and more transcendence by surgery. The transsexual, therefore, seeks the illusion of transcendence at the hands of the surgeon.Instead of becoming a more genuine self and overcoming cyclic existence, the transsexual short-circuits transcendence by taking false leaps and by endowing his or her selfhood with artificial reality. The falseness of this lies not in the desire for a different selfhood, nor in the uncertainty of the quest, but rather in the fact that transcendent be-ing (what Richardson would call integrity and transformation) is sought where only cyclic and static being (separation and return) can be found. Thus transsexuals are thrown back against those same societal norms and stereotypes that caused the problem to begin with.The second myth of transcendence is that of conflict and vindication. On an individual level, the transsexual must struggle with a continuing opposition to his “native-born” body. On a social level, the transsexual becomes a living opponent of a gender-free society by virtue of his uncritical acceptance of and comfortable conformity to the stereotypes of masculinity and femininity. Further conflict may result if transsexuals come to realize that their surgery is a Band-Aid approach to their individual gender suffering. Meyer and Hoopes have admitted: In a thousand subtle ways, the reassignee has the bitter experience th at he is not—and never will be—a real girl but is, at best, a convincing simulated female. Such an adjustment cannot compensate for the tragedy of having lost all chance to be male and of having, in the final analysis, no way to be really female. The third myth of transcendence, that of integrity and transformation, has been talked about in this work as an ethic of integrity. Richardson maintains: The kind of transcendence correlated with the myth of integrity and transform ation is that of self-transcendence, expanded consciousness, spiritual rebirth, and divinization.. . . In our integrity, we can experience transcendence as our own potentiality to become more, as the demand for self-transformation. In the transsexual’s mere process of integration, he can become no more than what the society has determined as masculine or feminine. Becoming a surgically constructed masculine or feminine person does not free one’s spiritual energies for larger ventures of becoming, but circumscribes these vitalities within stereotypes and role boundaries. The transsexual has indeed set up a false ultimate concern, taking a short-cut to a perceived but illusory transcendence of the instant salvation variety. For the transsexual, the surgery is a false signal of transcendence—false because the role and identity it conveys cannot point beyond itself and the society’s limits. Except in some narrowly achievable sense, transcendence and integrity cannot be won by elevating individual well-being over individual and societal be-ing and becoming.INTEGRITY AND THE INTUITION OF BE-INGVarious philosophers, most notably Jacques Maritain, have written about the intuition of being. Integrity, at its depth, is an intuition of the power of be-ing.The notion of being was originally developed within a society enclosed by a static world view, lacking any sense of process or change. Being was unchanging, and there was literally “nothing new under the sun. ” Static being is precisely what is achieved by the transsexual. In changing sex, and in being assimilated into the opposite sex roles, the transsexual settles for the static state of masculinity or femininity that a patriarchal culture has attached to a male or female body, and short-circuits the diversity of genuine be-ing and transcendence. In so doing, sex-conversion surgery measures the transsexual’s transcendence by an unchanging state of masculine or feminine well-being that does not point beyond itself. Transsexual supporters appeal to standards of wellbeing, when they justify transsexualism. They attest to its efficacy in the life process of those individuals afflicted, pointing out that most transsexuals are happier and function better after surgery. I maintain, however, that the efficacy they attest to is one-sided and does not measure total integrity. In order to assess the total integrity of the transsexual situation, the following questions must be asked and answered:1. Is individual gender satisfaction achieved at the price of individual role conformity and the enforcement of role stereotypes on a social level—thus at the price of encouraging a sexist society whose continued existence depends upon the perpetuation of those roles and stereotypes?2. Does transsexual treatment and surgery repress the transsexual’s capacity for social protest and restrict her or his potential as a social critic in the sexist society that caused the problem to begin with?3. Is the well-being that the transsexual achieves through surgery dependent upon an integration of false opposites?4. In connection with the former question, is transsexual well-being confined to the body that one is either bom in or out of? Therefore, does it restrict the infinite possibilities of be-ing that cannot be contained by either the“ native-born” or surgically constructed body?5. Are transsexuals radically at odds with their “bioecosystems, ” and are there enough deleterious effects of treatment and surgery (for example, breast cancer) reported in the medical literature to question transsexual well-being on a biological level alone?6. Could transsexual surgery really be called artificially prolonged maintenance? Transsexual existence initially depends upon the questionable notions of passing, synthetic hormone injections, surgery which often becomes polysurgery, and lifelong sustenance from exogenous sources. Thus the transsexual becomes dependent almost totally for his or her well-being on the medical profession. Autonomy is at a minimum, and dependence is at a maximum7. Is transsexual surgery a male-defined, male-perpetuated, and male-legitimated mode of happiness? (The female-to-constructed-male transsexual, as I have argued, is in a most definite sense the disguise that obscures the patriarchal character of the transsexual empire. ) Can one view the transsexual “ solution” as the beginning of a world where men not only dominate women but become women and try to surpass the biological woman and her creative capacities on all levels?All this is to say that the supposed satisfaction of the transsexual is a narrow mode of well-being, and a partial and short-circuited glimpse of be-ing. Integrity or true be-ing leads to the unfolding of process, and movement beyond the false opposition of opposites. Instead of restricting individuals to a static state of being or to partial modes of be-ing, integrity leads to, and resides in, transcendent Be-ing.Dynamic and true be-ing ultimately poses the question of Be-ing Itself—or what some have called the Source or Power of Be-ing. As Mary Daly has shown, the experience of be-ing is a theological experience (in the best sense of the word theological), because it is experienced as force, power, ground, and source of Be-ing. While expanding the self into more self-realization, an intuition of Be-ing is also experienced as transcending the self. This experience is something that the static and anthropomorphic symbols for God could never capture. Such symbols may have conveyed personality and personalism, but they failed to convey the fact that transcendence is Be-ing. Be-ing is hardly an abstraction but eminently personal when it is recognized that the force or power of one’s be-ing is within, while paradoxically still without, attainable yet unattainable. As Daly has further pointed out, there is an indwelling of the goal as yet unattained, but unfolding itself—“ the final cause that is movement is in our imaginative-cerebral-emotional-active-creative be-ing. ” Thus it is that the realization of integrity comes back to the intuition of Be-ing, for such an ethic can only be ultimately grounded in this intuition. The quest for integrity is a major part of the intuition of Be-ing, for it pushes one beyond limits of selfhood into an ever-expanding process.When this intuition occurs, one suddenly realizes that a given entity exists and exercises its highest activity of be-ing in its own way, which is total. Furthermore, although Maritain and others spoke about this intuition of being as an intellectual experience, it is clear that it is associated with profound emotion. It may, in some cases, have the appearance of mystical grace. 20 Maritain explains that this intuition would be most likely to occur in a person who feels profoundly, who has a good sense apparatus, and who can enter into the depth of her/his existence by her/his sensitivity. Such a person will be one who is vividly alive, who suffers existential conflicts. While transsexuals suffer poignant existential conflicts, they do not enter into the depths of their own experience by getting beyond the role-bound and body-bound crisis.The pain of unnecessary surgery is mistaken for being vibrantly alive. As stated earlier, physical pain is a constant reminder to transsexuals that they are finally coming alive. The quest for integrity, transcendence, or the true, deep, becoming self—for Be-ing—is short-circuited, with pain providing the illusion of life.One final word about the intuition of Be-ing. At times, Maritain’s conception of the intuition of being is too individualized and thus loses its social impact, minimizing the issue of political power. In contrast, the intuition of integrity of which I have written takes political power very seriously, and has a definite social source and emphasis. It is aimed at destroying the power of patriarchal society, which has spawned the sex roles that have engendered the loss of the power of be-ing for all who have been afflicted by these roles. Moreover, it proceeds from a feminist, social, consciousness of be-ing. I stress this social origin, because, as Tillich has pointed out, being is partly known from nonbeing. “The question of being is produced by the‘shock of non being. ’”22 Women have recognized this basic nonbeing, stunting, alienation, and loss of power, because women have felt most heavily the weight of sex-role oppression. Perhaps it will be possible for transsexuals, with their unique victimization by these same roles, to move from false and static being to the total Be-ing of integrity through a rejection of both roles.“ REPRESSIVE TOLERANCE” AND SENSITIVITYIt is my deepest hope that this book will not be viewed as an unsympathetic treatment of the anguish and existential plight of the transsexual. What I have tried to present is a different vision of where to focus sympathy and sensitivity.Focused sensitivity should ask the why behind transsexual suffering and propose ways of dealing with such pain that confront the total situation, thus effecting change on the deepest levels involved. To focus sensitivity is to not allow it to become short-sighted or short-circuited. To encourage would-be transsexuals to hand over their bodies to the transsexual empire hardly seems to be an adequate or genuinely sensitive response to the questions that transsexualism raises. Those who advocate medi-calized transsexualism as the answer to a desperate emergency situation of profound sex-role agony only serve, in my opinion, to prolong the emergency. They seem sensitive only to Band-Aid solutions that ultimately help to make more medicalized victims and to enhance the power of the medical empire. This kind of sensitivity is the outgrowth of “the triumph of the therapeutic” and can only mire its believers and transsexuals in the immediacy of “ the personal solution” in which therapy becomes a way of life.Any woman who has experienced the agony of sex-role oppression in a patriarchal society is hardly insensitive to the suffering that transsexuals experience. Like transsexuals, many women have felt hatred of their bodies and itsfunctions, and have found themselves in a psychically disjointed state because they could not accept their role.Through feminism, however, many women have come to understand this physical and psychic fragmentation in political/social terms—i. e., as the product of a patriarchal society that has imposed images and definitions of female existence. Thus feminists have become social critics and have organized, as feminists, around issues of sexism and sex-role oppressioaIsn’t it possible for persons who desire sex-conversion surgery, and who have also experienced sex-role oppression and dissatisfaction with their bodies, to band together around their own unique form of gender agony—especially those who claim to have a deep commitment to feminism?Many will say that this is too much to ask of transsexuals.Yet it is no more than women have asked of ourselves—those who have taken feminism seriously and have tried to live unfettered by gender in a gender-defined society.This book will, no doubt, be dismissed by many transsexuals and transsexual advocates as intolerant. Tolerance, however, can easily become repressive, as Marcuse has pointed out. It is often a variation on the “ poverty of liberalism, ” functioning as sympathy for the oppressed.I strongly believe that one of the tasks of those who would be truly open and sensitive to transsexualism is to take stands that are informed, honest, and sensitive to all the issues involved. Obviously, those who take a critical position will be subjected to accusations of dogmatism and intolerance, when in fact those who are unwilling to take a stand are exercising the dogmatism o f openness at any cost. This time, the cost of openness is the solidification of the medical empire and the multiplying of medical victims.Those who advocate tolerance of medicalized transsexualism are expressing a false sympathy which, in both the immediate and ultimate context, can only facilitate and fortify the possession of women by men. Such sympathetic tolerance will only strengthen a society in which sex roles are the norm, and where deep existential choices become subject to medicalization. When tolerance serves mainly to protect the fabric by which a sexist society is held together, then it neutralizes values. It is important to help break the concreteness of oppression by showing its theoretical inconsistencies and by stretching minds to think about solutions that only appear to be sensitive and sympathetic.Tolerance also fosters a laissez-faire attitude to problems—“different strokes for different folks. ” Social control flourishes under this ideological umbrella, whether it is called “ free choices, ” “ radical solutions, ” and/or “liberating boundaries. ” Furthermore, tolerance is essentially a passive position. Marcuse, in his essay “ Repressive Tolerance, ” has written: The political locus o f tolerance has changed: while it is more or less quietly and constitutionally withdrawn from the opposition, it is made compulsory behavior with respect to established policies.Tolerance is turned from an active into a passive state, from practice to non-practice.. . . It is the people who tolerate the government, which, in turn tolerates opposition within the framework determined by the constituted authorities. Many feminists are opposed to transsexualism. Yet that opposition, having moved outside the limits of tolerance set up by the medical authorities, will often be decried as intolerant. What is happening here is a fundamental reversal. “ Tolerance toward that which is radically evil now appears as good because it serves the cohesion of the whole on the road to affluence or more affluence. ”24 It is not only tolerance in the service of medical affluence that we witness in the transsexual situation, but tolerance in the service of medical control—specifically the control of women.It is a critical time for woman-identified women. Medi-calized transsexualism represents only one more aspect of patriarchal hegemony. The best response women can make to this is to see clearly just what is at stake for us with respect to transsexualism and to assert our own power of naming who we are.A P P E N D I XSuggestionsforChangeI h a v e argued that the issueof transsexualism is an ethical issue that has profound political and moral ramifications; transsexualism itself is a deeply moral question rather than a medical-technical answer. I contend that the problem of transsexualism would best be served by morally mandating it out of existence.Does a moral mandate, however, necessitate that transsexualism be legally mandated out of existence? What is the relationship between law and morality, in the realm of transsexualism? While there are many who feel that morality must be built into law, I believe that the elimination of transsexualism is not best achieved by legislation prohibiting transsexual treatment and surgery but rather by legislation that limits it—and by other legislation that lessens the support given to sex-role stereotyping, which generated the problem to begin with.THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN LAW AND MORALITYMany see a very definite connection between social morality and its preservation in law. 1 They would argue that if there were a broad social consensus about the immorality of transsexual surgery, then the law should incarnate that social morality. Others, of course, would argue that to ground issues of law in the social conscience is not always protective of individual rights and may, in fact, be destructive of those rights. They would say that the law can only legislate against individual rights when they can be shown to be directly harmful to another’s rights.I do not wish to argue either of these positions. Rather, I would contend that the more that can be left out of the law, the better. The prevention of transsexual surgery, and the social conditions that generate it, are not achieved by legislation forbidding surgery. In the case of transsexual surgery, the good to be achieved, that is, the integrity of the individual and of the society, does not seem best served by making transsexual surgery illegal. Rather it is more important to regulate, by legal measures, the sexist, social conditions that generate transsexual surgery, and also legally to limit the medical-institutional complex that translates these sexist conditions into the realm of transsexualism. Thus I am advocating a limiting legislative presence, along with First Cause legislation, which, instead of directing legal action to the consequences of a gender-defined society (in this case, to transsexualism), directs action to the social forces and medical institutions that produce the transsexual empire.Legislation dealing with First Causes would concern itself with the network of sex-role stereotyping that produces the schizoid state of a “ female mind in a male body. ” The education of children is one case in point here. Images of sex roles continue to be reinforced, at public expense, in school textbooks. The message is that such roles are assigned to male and female bodies in our society. Another example of First Cause legislation is the legal mandatingof programs and funds for the promotion of nonsexist physical education in schools receiving federal money.This has been initiated, to a certain extent, with Title IXlegislation, but still has not been implemented extensively.Building up women’s bodies in the active way to which men have been accustomed would also build a body image and role that is quite different from the objectified, weak, and passive image that women and men now have of women. This would help to eliminate the bodily stereotype to which the transsexual wishes to convert.These, of course, are but a few examples of First Cause legislation where it would be possible for the law to step in at the beginning of a destructive sexist process that leads ultimately to consequences such as transsexualism Although this is not the place to delve into a lengthy listing of all the social contexts in which the law might possibly intervene to prevent the sexist supports of the transsexual phenomenon, it is my contention that it is at the beginning and not at the end of the transsexual process that legislation is imperative.Along with First Cause legislation to stop the “procreation” of transsexualism, limiting legislation is also necessary to inhibit the massive medical-technical complex of institutions that promote and perform more treatment and more surgery. Such institutions have a built-in growth power and thus legal limits should be placed on their ability to multiply. I would favor restricting the number of hospitals and centers where transsexual surgery could be performed.CONSCIOUSNESS-RAISING COUNSELINGNonsexist counseling is another direction for change that should be explored. The kind of counseling to “ pass”successfully as masculine or feminine that now reigns in gender identity clinics only reinforces the problem of transsexualism. It does nothing to develop critical awareness, it makes transsexuals passive spectators of their own decline, it manages transsexuals’ intimacy, and ultimatelyit makes them dependent upon the medical-technical solution. Such counseling destroys integrity and the potential of transsexuals to deal with their problem in an autonomous, genuinely personal, and responsibly social way. The transsexual becomes a kind of acolyte to his doctor and psychiatrist, and learns to depend upon these professionals for maintenance. The baptism of “passing” behavior that is conferred upon the transsexual, plus the administration of exogenous hormones, along with constant requests for corrective polysurgery, turn him into a lifelong patient. Ivan Illich has called this cultural iatrogenesis.Cultural iatrogenesis. . . consists in the paralysis of healthy responses to suffering, impairment, and death. It occurs when people accept health management designed on the engineering model, when they conspire in an attem pt to produce, as if it were a commodity, something called “ better health. ” This inevitably results in the managed maintenance of life on high levels of sub-lethal illness. What I advocate, instead of a counseling that issues in a medicalization of the transsexual’s suffering, is a counseling based on “consciousness-raising. ” In the early stages of the current feminist movement, consciousness-raising groups were very common. These groups were composed of women who talked together about their problems and directions as women in a patriarchal society. Gradually, these groups came to the insight that “the personal is political, ” thus providing the first reconciliation between what had always been labeled the “personal” and the “political” dimensions of life. Women, who had felt for years that the dissatisfaction they had experienced as women was a personal problem, came to realize in concert with other women that these problems were not peculiar to them as individuals but were common to women as a caste.Until feminism focused attention on the debilitating social-political framework of sexism, most women had categorized their dissatisfaction as “merely personal. ” From these consciousness-raising groups came much of the initial political action of the women’s movement.Five elements or processes appear repeatedly, underdifferent names, in literature about consciousness-raising groups.1. Self-revelation. This involves each individual talking about her attitudes and life.2. Sharing. Experiences and attitudes revealed often weave a tapestry of similarity so that the commonality of personal experiences becomes obvious, and its political character is revealed.3. Analysis. Recognition of the reasons and causes for the commonality of such personal experiences with an extensive analysis of the social-political, economic, and moral forces that support such experiences.4. Abstracting. Theorizing about concrete experiences and about social forces and sources, while drawing on the insights of others for perspective.5. Action. Concretizing analysis into appropriate tasks, goals, projects, and the like. Would it be possible for these elements of consciousness-raising to be transplanted into a one-to-one counseling situation where they could be used to explore the social origins of the transsexual problem and the consequences of the medical-technical solution? Counseling of this nature would raise the kinds of questions that I advocated previously, such as: is individual gender suffering relieved at the price of role conformity and the perpetuation of role stereotypes on a social level? In “changing sex, ” does the transsexual encourage a sexist society whose continued existence depends upon the perpetuation of these roles and stereotypes? Does transsexual treatment repress the transsexual’s capacity for social protest and criticism?Does it act as a social tranquilizer? These and similar questions are seldom raised in transsexual therapy at present.However, aside from this one-to-one form of counseling, the model of consciousness-raising emphasizes the group process itself. As women have analyzed their own problems as women in consciousness-raising groups, it is extremely important that transsexuals, as persons wishing to change sex, take their particular manifestation of genderoppression into their own hands. Transsexuals are not women. They are deviant males, and their particular manifestation of gender deviancy needs its own unique context of peer support.Peer support has been one of the crucial aspects of consciousness-raising in feminist groups. Given the support of other women, it became possible for many to break the bonds of so-called “core” gender identity. In the same way, peer support could be extremely insightful for transsexuals. It could help surface the deeper issues that lie behind the problem of why one finds one’s self with, for example, a “ female mind in a male body. ” It could then assist in exploring whether indeed this is the proper label for the transsexual’s unique form of sex-role oppression.Such counseling and group interaction would be far more honest than the present forms of therapy that promote passing. I am not so naive as to think that they will make transsexualism disappear overnight, but they would at least pose the existence of a real alternative to be explored and tried. Given peer encouragement to transcend cultural definitions of both masculinity and femininity, without changing one’s body, persons considering transsexualism might not find it as necessary to resort to sex-conversion surgery.DEMYSTIFYING AND DISMANTLING THEMEDICAL-TECHNICAL HEGEMONYPeople concerned about sex-role oppression must work to take the transsexual problem out of the hands of the transsexual professionals and the gender identity clinics. One way of doing this is through the legal measures suggested previously; another way is through public education.Up to this point, the transsexual and the transsexual professionals have been the sources of information for the general public. The mere existence of the postoperative transsexual, moreover, and the mere availability of trans­sexual counseling and surgery, permit people to restrict their thinking about sex-role dissatisfaction to these medical/surgical boundaries. In addition, the transsexual professional becomes a force in the community at large, defining his constituency, and generating a clientele of persons with this unique medical consumer status.One way in which education about transsexualism has reached the general public is through the m edia Articles on transsexualism, especially in the aftermath of public exposure of famous transsexual personages such as Jan Morris or Renee Richards, appear in the weekly news magazines. Several times a year, transsexuals and transsexual professionals appear on various television talk shows. Thus the transsexual empire has become “ media-ized. ”However, I would suggest that different perspectives on the issue of transsexualism need to receive more attention and publicity. We have seen enough of those transsexuals and professionals in the media who are in favor of transsexual surgery as the solution to so-called gender dissatisfaction and dysphoria. We need to hear more from those men and women who, at one time, thought they might be transsexuals but decided differently—persons who successfully overcame their gender identity crises without resorting to the medical-technical solution. We need to hear more also from professionals such as endocrinologist Charles Ihlenfeld who, after helping one hundred or more persons to “ change their sex, ” left the field. Ihlenfeld decided that “ we are trying to treat superficially something that is much deeper. ”4 And finally we need to hear more from persons, such as feminists and homosexual men, who have experienced sex-role oppression but ultimately did not become transsexuals.In the final analysis, however, it is important to remember that transsexualism is merely one of the most obvious forms of gender dissatisfaction and sex-role playing in a patriarchal society. It is one of the most obvious because, in the transsexual situation, we have the stereotypes on stage, so to speak, for all to see and examine in an alienbody. What can be overlooked, however, is that these same stereotypes, behaviors, and gender dissatisfactions are lived out every day in “ native” bodies. The issues that transsexualism can highlight should by no means be confined to the transsexual context. Rather they should be confronted in the “ normal” society that spawned the problem of transsexualism to begin with.N O T E S1994 INTRODUCTION, PAGES xiii-xliv1. The Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions News, Press Release, August 13, 1979, p. 2.2. Jane E. Brody, “Benefits of Transsexual Surgery Disputed as Leading Hospital Halts the Procedure, ” The New York Times, October 2, 1979, p. C l.3. John Money in John Money and Gertrude J. Williams, Traumatic Abuse and Neglect of Children at Home (Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins University Press, 1980), p. 412.4. Money, p. 412.5. It is curious th at several physicians who initially performed transsexual surgery or worked on the medical teams are now engaged in human in vitro fertilization research and procedures.6. Editorial on “Transsexualism, ” The Lancet 338 (Sept. 7, 1991): 604. The Lancet editorial cites several mortality and morbidity studies, especially relating to the intake of hormones in transsexual patients.7. Karin Winegar, “The Ultimate Passage, ” Minnesota, March/April, 1992, p. 24.8. Conversation with P at Hynes, August 9, 1993.9. Thomas Szasz, “Male and Female Created He Them, ” The New York Times Book Review (Review of Janice G. Raymond, The Transsexual Empire), June 10, 1979, pp. 11 and 39.10. Brian Tully, Accounting for Transsexualism and Transhomosexuality (London: Whiting & Birch Ltd., 1992), see especially pp. 214-33; the University of Minnesota’s Program in Human Sexuality requires th at persons seeking sex reassignment, prior to surgery, “live a minimum of one year in the role of the opposite sex. ”See Winegar, p. 24.11. Formal Comments of the American Society of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgeons filed with the FDA on July 1, 1982, and quoted in Felicity Barringer, “Many Surgeons Reassure Their Patients on Im plants, ” The New York Times, January 29, 1992, C12.12. L. Gooren, “The Endocrinology of Transsexualism: a Review and Commentary, ” Psychoendocrinology 15 (1990): 3-14.13. Alice Echols, “The New Feminism of Yin and Yang, ” in Ann Snitow, et al. (eds. ), Desire: the Politics of Sexuality (London: Virago, 1984), p. 66.14. Annie Woodhouse, Fantastic Women: Sex, Gender and Transvestism (New Brunswick: Rutgers University Press, 1989), p.81.15. Somer Brodribb, “ReproTech: Script for a New Generation, ”Broadside 10, no. 5 (1989): 11.16. Sandy Stone, “The Empire Strikes Back: A Posttranssexual Manifesto, ” in Julia Epstein and Kristina Straub, Body Guards: the Cultural Politics of Gender Ambiguity (New York: Routledge, 1991), p. 296.17. Somer Brodribb, Nothing Matters: A Feminist Critique of Postmodernism (North Melbourne, Victoria, Australia: Spinifex Press, 1992; also published by New York University Press, 1993), pp. xvi, xviii.18. Stone, p. 299.19. Stone, pp. 283, 300.20. Judith Shapiro, “Transsexualism: Reflections on the Persistence of Gender and the Mutability of Sex, ” in Epstein and Straub, Body Guards, p. 253.21. Shapiro, p. 262.22. Shapiro, p. 262.23. Shapiro, p. 255.24. Shapiro, p. 259.25. Steve Greenberg, “The Next Wave, ” The Advocate 633, July 13, 1993, pp. 51-52.26. Greenberg, p. 52.27. Greenberg, p. 52.28. Greenberg, p. 52.29. While I realize th at much of the traditional literature distinguishes among drag queens, cross dressers, and transvestism , and that there are some significant differences among these groups, what they all have in common is th at they wear women’s clothes.NotesFurther, they wear the kind of hyperfeminine women’s clothes that many women would never wear. Thus, I use these term s interchangeably for purposes of this Introduction.30. David A. Keeps, “How RuPaul Ups the Ante for Drag, ” The New York Times, July 11, 1993, p. H23.31. Keeps, p. H23.32. Kathy Miriam, “From Rage to All the Rage: Lesbian-Feminism, Sadomasochism and the Politics of Memory, ” in Irene Reti, ed., Unleashing Feminism: a Collection of Radical Feminist Writings (Santa Cruz, CA: Herbooks, 1993), pp. 51-52, n116.33. Leslie Feinberg, Stone Butch Blues (Ithaca, New York: Firebrand Books, 1993), pp. 158-59. See text for further page references.34. Leslie Bennetts, “k. d. lang Cuts It Close, ” Vanity Fair, August, 1993, p. 98.35. Bennetts, p. 97.36. Bennetts, p. 144.37. Bennetts, pp. 94-95.38. Bennetts, p. 99.39. Bennetts, p. 144.40. Miriam, pp. 66-67.INTRODUCTION, PAGES 1-1. Harry Benjamin, The Transsexual Phenomenon (New York: Julian Press, 1966), p. 26.2. D. H. Russell, “The Sex-Conversion Controversy, ” The New England Journal of Medicine, 279 (September 1968): 535.3. Milton T. Edgerton, Norman J. Knorr, and James R. Callison,“The Surgical Treatment of Transsexual Patients, ” Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, 45 (January 1970): 38.4. Ibid., p. 42.5. The various definitions of sex can be found in John Money,“ Sex Reassignment as Related to Hermaphroditism and Transsexualism, ” in Richard Green and John Money, eds., Transsexualism and Sex Reassignment (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1969), pp. 91-93.6. Robert Stoller, Sex and Gender (New York: Science House, 1968), pp. viii, ix.7. Ira Pauly, “ Adult Manifestations of Female Transsexualism, ”in Green and Money, Transsexualism, p. 44.8. John Money and Anke A. Ehrhardt, Man & Woman, Boy &Girl (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1972), p. 4.9. Quoted in Time, January 21, 1974, p. 64.10. Jon K. Meyer and John E. Hoopes, “The Gender DysphoriaSyndromes, ” Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, 54 (October 1974): 447.11. Idem.12. See Daniel Callahan, Abortion: Law, Choice & Morality (New York: Macmillan, 1970).13. See R. A. Stebbins, “The Unstructured Research Interview as Incipient Interpersonal Relationship, ” Social and Sociological Research, 56 (January 1972): 164-79.The goal of such unstructured techniques as explained by R. A.Stebbins is to provide some sort of conscious data for research purposes. Dean and Whyte have listed the kinds of subjective data that are elicited in such interviews as: (a) current emotional states; (b) opinions on a subject; (c) attitudes toward some object; (d) values or the underlying principles that organize opinions, attitudes, and subsequent behavior; (e) hypothetical reactions to certain circumstances; (f) actual reactions in specified situations. In interviewing both pre- and postoperative transsexuals, I was most interested in obtaining information with respect to (d) values or the underlying principles that organize opinions, attitudes, and subsequent behavior, especially as it influenced the transsexual’s background of sex-role conditioning and his/her subsequent desire to be transsexed.The various questions I asked transsexuals should help to make the preceding categories more specific. Aside from the commonly asked questions about family, class, educational, religious, and geographical background, I asked each transsexual the following questions: (a) Were they satisfied with the surgery? Did they ever look back and wish they had done differently? Is their gender dissatisfaction relieved? (b) What is their opinion about feminism?What do they think about homosexuality? (c) What clothes do they like to wear? What jobs interest them? (d) Why did they want to become women (or men)? What do they expect from life? What did they feel lacking before surgery? Would they like to see what are called masculine and feminine qualities and characteristics disappear? How do they relate to women and men? (e) I asked transsexuals to react to the hypothetical situation o f a role free society in which people were able to be themselves. Would they then feel it necessary to change sex? I also asked the transsexuals I interviewed how they would react to a hypothetical meeting with a feminist who told them that they were reinforcing sex-role stereotypes by changing sex. (f) In some cases, where I felt I could express my own opinion, I adm itted I was the feminist who felt much ambiguity about the rightness of transsexualism because it reinforced sex-role stereotypes.

  Hard to pin down exactly when I peaked, it was more of a build up and then being sent over. I stayed out of the discussion because I was neutral about it, so I thought. I started seeing the mantra "Trans Women are Women" and a new definition for us all "Cisgender" and that is okay they say because it has roots in Latin, what that has to do with the English language today, which derived a lot of words from Latin, god knows. Oh and the definition of "Woman" is outdated and needs to be updated to include feelings otherwise you're a bioessentialist, bigot and a transphobe!Also reasons you are a bigot and a transphobe:Believing in two Genders/SexesKnowing that differences between male and females exist.Stating that we are a sexually dimorphic species to cries of BUT INTERSEX!!! (Genetic conditions I imagine everyone here is aware)Stating that gender is built on sexist stereotypesStating that women should be entitled to Single-Sex spaces and that how someone "identifies" themselves does not make that the case to other individuals and it should be respected.Stating that biological males should not be allowed to compete in female sports categories due to the natural advantages of being male bodied.I'm a Liberal and usually find myself debating right wing individuals but since the end of last year I have been finding myself debating with transgender activists, I always thought debating RW individuals could get nasty, but to my surprise that is nothing to what you will get from trans activists.Naturally the homophobic nature and the way it impacts women overwhelmingly is a grave concern. Lesbians are frequently called genital fetishists, terfs and transphobic for their homosexual attraction because it does not include trans women, the activists are trying to override our sexual orientation and act as though gender is the source, to not acknowledge that gender supersedes sex tends to lead to receiving abuse.This is coercive behaviour and it is coming from a community that claims to be the most vulnerable, the tactics often employed are manipulative,  based on distortions and outright lies. I do not believe the solution is to bury our heads in the sand and pretend this requires some minor reworking.I guess I would say the main thing is seeing so many people go around and say that they're a man now, while still wearing makeup and stereotypically feminine clothes, or vice versa - put on a dress once in awhile and you're suddenly a woman. I know it doesn't change their biology or give them the experiences of a biological woman, but at least people who undergo surgery and hormones are seemingly making an effort to be taken seriously. Or some creepy old man can join female/WLW groups, post a pic of himself wearing a wig and lipstick, and get praised by everyone. Also all the wasted time in college classes and feminist group meetings having to go around the room and announce one's pronouns. Which apparently change at will for some people. Or seeing men say stupid shit about how their "female penis" is superior to a cis woman's body.This is gonna be a stream of consciousness so please excuse the weird organization.Peak libfem (which led to my actual first peak trans) was my feminist media class this past fall semester. I was super excited beforehand because I thought it would be fun and enlightening because I had never actually studied anything that was titled feminism before (spoiler: I had but didn't recognize it bc it wasn't so grossly libfem and/or preachy). The instructor and TA were both women but the TA gave "they/them" pronouns and went by a single letter for their "name" (let's call her "A"). The instructor just gave us her name and no pronouns. I obviously referred to her as "she" but my classmates were all "oh no, (instructor) didn't say her pronouns, should we ask her??" So I was talking to my friend group about this class near the beginning of the semester and one of my friends had the same exact TA for a different feminist class before. This friend told me how the TA didn't like her because when someone asked where "A" (the TA) was, she replied "A  i-s  t-h-e-r-e" (she spelled it out while pointing) and apparently "A" overheard.Demographics of the class (out of ~90 students): about 5-10 were male, about 10 people were not white (including me), about 5 were older than the average college student (one was a second wave feminist in her youth!). So this created the perfect recipe for the Concerned Non-Critical Thinking Libfem to flourish.Digging through my suppressed memories of this class, I can say with relative certainty that it was mostly focused on blackness and/or queerness, which is not necessarily bad, but just... eh. The readings were very libfemmy and had things like this that weren't corrected or discussed but Laura Mulvey was deemed controversial (likely bc it doesn't adhere to trans ideology).Side note about the image: I can't speak for all women of color but as a black immigrant who's family has kept its culture in America, it is very patriarchal which is not simply due to colonialism! The patriarchy from colonialism is more apparent of FOBs (stands for "fresh off the boat") who try so hard to fit in and are extremely sexist to women from their same culture. I feel like the excerpt (which comes from Karen Hollinger's Feminist Film Studies) is a total cop-out to the sexism that women of color face from men in their culture and instead is removing the blame from those men and onto this far-away figure. I have no doubt that there is some patriarchial attitudes that arose from colonialism but that certainly doesn't explain everything and does a disservice to the women who suffer under that system by apologizing for their abusers.Back to the class. It just had ridiculous readings like the above and was full of libfems pretending to understand all of these wildly different viewpoints. I spoke up once in disagreement to a reading in a small group and all the other members basically couldn't compute what I was saying. From then on, I just zoned out because no one in this class could actually think for themselves.Bonus points:We watched Bound by the Wachkowski Brothers and read an interesting piece that described how an actual lesbian was brought on to consult for the sex scenes so that they wouldn't be completely for the male gaze (it worked for both straight males and lesbians). Someone claimed in a discussion post that because the Wachkowski "sisters" were now trans lesbians that their depiction of lesbians in Bound wasn't necessarily for straight men .We watched an episode of Flavor of Love and Pumkin (a white woman) is in an argument with New York (a black woman). New York says that Pumkin is poor and is on the show because she needs the money for a facelift. Pumkin called New York an ugly transvestite who tucks her dick behind her balls. Cue the horrified gasp of breath from practically everyone in class  Not because they acknowledged that black women aren't seen as feminine enough but because transvestite was used as an insult.A group did their final project on how its unfair that "cis" people played trans characters and got awarded for it . According to them, it isn't fair because it takes away roles for trans actors (whoa, wouldn't it make them dysphoric if they have to play as their actual sex???) and pushes the view that trans people are just crossdressers .TLDR: I took a feminist media class in the hopes to learn more about feminism. I got class of mostly white women who were libfems that weren't critical thinkers and drank the kool-aid on trans ideology. As a result, I became extremely critical of most ideas, especially liberal feminism which caused me to peak trans. So, yay! I guess?read an interesting piece that described how an actual lesbian was brought on to consult for the sex scenes so that they wouldn't be completely for the male gaze (it worked for both straight males and lesbians).The "lesbian" who offered sex-scene consulting for Bound is also the professional dominatrix under whose guidance one of the Wachowski brothers (I forget which one) came to identify as trans. And she's the ex-wife of FtM porn star Buck Angel.Damn, did not know this. Thank you for the info!Hey there. This is a secondary Reddit account, my main is linked too much to my IRL to be able to express how I feel, unfortunately. I am struggling with a few things. One, I am very close to someone with a "famous" transchild, which has become increasingly difficult to be able to deal with. I absolutely love my friend and their family, but I struggle with what is happening and has happened and seemingly "supporting" this stuff by not speaking up. Two..as a lesbian woman reentering the dating scene..what the actual fuck? I can't even go on actual lesbians on Reddit, because it seems everyone on there has a penis. Where are the ACTUAL lesbians?! How do I even begin to sort the dating world to find an actual female?! Anyways, everything I think and feel has already pretty much been covered in this sub, I've been lurking and upvoting for a year now and finally decided to join to both support and seek support from like-minded sisters.r/truelesbians is where the legit, non-penis-having, FEMALE SEX lesbians hang out.It is creepy to hear about your friend and their child. I dont know how people do that to their kids.Ok, I know I've commented here before but just read 'Leading British surgeon calls for transgender women to have life-changing womb transplants so they can have their own children with IVF', it's from the Daily Fail which while not exactly the top tier of all british journalism, still. Just why???Imagine as a woman, you've signed up to organ donation, the most selfless gift a person can give in the event of death and your womb is donated to some deluded man who wants to birth a baby out of his fake 'vagina'. Honestly, stop the world and let me off.I just ignore all the uterus transplant nonsense. Body organs aren't plug and play between men and women. Its the same ridiculousness of how they believe they can turn their bodies female and have periods. None of it is possible. Its just more disrespect and and ignorance that the trans and medical community show towards women's bodies. And if by some ridiculous miracle they could get pregnant and actually see the reality of it, they wouldnt want any part of it bc it will not fit their fantasy. Their whole 'I am a woman' is based of their fantasies.  I recently sent out one of those social media reminders that I've signed up to be an organ donor. After hearing about how many lives are at risk and how many healthy organs go to waste for no good reason I felt as though the least I could do, upon exiting the mortal coil, was to let someone who needed my remains take advantage. Currently as far as everyone I know is concerned, if I were to pop my clogs right this second I'd be happy for people to help themselves to whatever they need, as it were.And I never ever thought I'd reconsider that choice. However upon reading that article, and entertaining the idea of my corpse being raided in order to fulfil a potentially dangerous delusion, I'm seriously considering "revoking" my donor card. Or at the very least adding a disclaimer that my reproductive organs are exempted from donation, but that would surely out me as an "evil TERF who wants to invalidate stunning and brave folx from beyond the grave."Urgh I don't know what to do.Want my organs to be used for people to survive, or see, or hear, whatever, not so my body can be wasted on a TIM who thinks we're nothing but menstruators and breeders, especially in a world where so many children are going it alone, just crazy.Not to mention think bringing a child into the world with the normalization of lifetime drug dependency and surgical mutilations as basic rites of passage is just chilling, absolutely chilling.  One of the most shocking things I've realized is just how protected transgenderism is becoming.There are subreddits depicting women getting peed on and raped, visibly suffering and with emptiness in their eyes. But where are the true hateful subreddits? The ones in which people say "transwomen are male". You know, a fact.There is also violent porn allowed on Twitter. That's totally fine! But if you live in England and are an elderly woman who makes anti-transgenderism tweets? Then you get reported to the police!I guess this "re-peaked" me. This is all fucking insane.Agreed. And none of them lift a finger to point out the violence against women. They like those subreddits because the alternative would be kink shaming which we all know is the bigger evil than rape!  Protected indeed.A couple of days ago, I encountered a piece from the CBC (Canadian Broadcasting Company): after U.S authorities had shut down Backpage in 2018, a website that, among other things, provided a platform for human traffickers to sell access to their victims, another website, LeoList, soon rose in popularity in Canada to take its place.In any case, the piece chose to focus on the harm that shutting down Backpage had caused prostitutes, who also used the website to sell services, and featured an interview with a sex worker TIM, Jelena Vermillion(sp?). In addition to complaining about his loss of earnings, Jelena opined about how, even when the website was up and running, he earned less money than women because he was forced to advertise his services under the "Trans Woman" category, where, presumably, there was less demand, verses advertising under the "Woman" category.So, a story about the closing of a website platform that allows prostitutes and human traffickers to sell sex focuses on the harm done to a TIM sex worker and how, even before the closure, he had it worse than his female competitors due to the unwillingness of the website creators and potential customers to conflate transwomen and women.Now, admittedly, I don't know if the CBC has other stories on the closure of Backpage...perhaps it does...stories that feature a variety of voices, and how the shutdown of such a website platform affects them.But, what struck me was, in this particular story, the centrality of Jelena Vermillion's experiences, and that the voices of victims of sex trafficking (who are almost always women and children), the social workers that serve them, and experts in human trafficking were missing.In effect, the CBC piece was all about the TIM and the transactivist agenda.  It showed little interest in the horrific harm caused to women and children caught up in trafficking.Edited for clarity.A little OT, but I'm actually really pissed off about how mainstream media is reporting on this whole FOSTA thing and the closing of Backpage. There are so many stories of trafficked women and girls; and activists, but they refuse to air any of their POVs. There's also no discussion on if websites should be able to facilitate and profit off crime w/o any culpability- which is really what the law prevents. Backpage would rather close down than take steps to make sure the prostitutes on their website are there by "choice" (bc everyone really knows most aren't). Instead, in mainstream media it's all happy hookers and how this hurts empowered sex workers.Its surreal isnt it. Its mainstream and empowering to abuse some. It means we have "agency." But god forbid you state a fact such as- males and females are different and male bodies shouldnt play in women sports league- and you're condemned and censored. Its just insane.I keep thinking about that GameStop video and how everyone who acknowledged reality that the ma'am is in fact a man- they had their comments removed. We can't even acknowledge basic reality that we can see right in front of our eyes.You mean men, how protected men are becoming, not that they ever needed it before so it's a shock to their sensitive still functioning fragile male egos.More of my usual insane internet shit... I peaked hard this week.I've been reading postings by "plurals" (very short summary: people who identify as multiple people in one body) because I have nothing better to do I guess. And obviously the topic of "how do we know we're not faking it and this plurality thing isn't just me forcing myself to believe this is real?" comes up a lot.You want to know their best explanation for that? The one-size-fits-all cannot be disproven explanation for how they're able to create Real Imaginary Friends that control their bodies, have varying accents, skills, and memories? The explanation every one of them uses?"I felt the same feeling now as when I found out I was trans."What?!?! How do you expect me to believe in this trans crap now, huh?!(very short summary: people who identify as multiple people in one body)It's amazing this still goes on. The idea of a "Sybil" multiple personalities type person was debunked by psychology a long time ago. The most common cause is probably some type of trauma, the pressure of gender roles in society today or wanting to be 'special' or 'different' (aka most teens these days).Plurals is a pretty interesting concept. How could you have multiple people in your body? Why would anyone think that? The first logical sociological analysis that comes to my mind is that we've been exposed to way too much TV/media in general, in which characters are often uni-dimensional, or stereotypical. So maybe people who feel like they have eclectic personality traits have a hard time understanding that this is possible inside only one person.Because they dissociate. Theyre often sort of floating outside themselves, dont always experience themselves as responsible for their actions, and have surprising thoughts and feelings that they arent aware of having formed.It makes quite a lot of sense to think of yourself as multiple if you dissociate a lot. In fact you almost have to... often people healing trauma have to think of their traumatised selves as separate entities to some extent, the inner child or whatever, in order to heal. The goal is to rebuild connections to those split off parts of the self. This is a much less healthy approach to the same thing.And I am not at ALL surprised its the same feeling as being trans. Its obvious that a lot of trans people are doing it as a coping mechanism for dissociation.Introductory post from a throw-away account.  Long time lurker of the subreddit, but finally getting around to being more active.  Hate that it has come to creating a separate account for conversation, but here we are.I honestly don't even remember my exact peak trans moment.  It's been several years at least.I'm a 30 something year old lesbian.  I came out in high school in the early 2000's.  I'm from a small town in the south, and oddly didn't experience much negativity.  There was one gay guy, and I was the token lesbian.  It worked out ok for me.  Dating was pretty much non-existent, but I had the internet at least.  I watched a lot of Xena, bought a lot of rainbow shit, and was generally very comfortable in my own skin.  I'm pretty fortunate to have had this happen so early in life.  I know not everyone is so lucky.Like most people my age, I've spent countless hours online, and unfortunately spent time on tumblr.  I can't knock it completely because I met my wife there, but I do remember several years ago really being annoyed by the younger generation's over-use of the term "queer" rather than gay or lesbian.  It didn't make sense.  Why would you EMPHASIZE the "odd" factor of your sexuality?Flash forward a few years, and all of the BS started to surface about lesbians HAVE to accept transwomen, and I guess if I had to put my finger on it, that was the catalyst for me.  I've been happily committed to my wife for a while so it wasn't even an active issue for me, but it just irritated the shit out of me.  I have one irl friend that's pretty active in the gc community.  We've never actively had conversations about it, but through her, I found places like this subreddit and started following a lot of radfem ladies on twitter.I initially created this account today to post an article about a 17 year old "transgirl" that was voted homecoming queen at a local high school.  I've had time to cool down since first reading the article.  I eye-rolled A LOT scrolling through the kid's instagram.  I never would have wanted to be on the homecoming court at 17, but I guess that's one more thing we can't have now either.My feeling is: let them have the homecoming court. Let the whole fucking homecoming court be trans. Make all the budding liberal handmaidens have to give way with a smile and make the wokebros have to escort and dance with them. Just don't give them the girls' STEM scholarships (probably won't be possible, since having strong skills in math and science is not feminine and therefore should be as triggering to them as not being able to menstruate).Thank you ! let them have the femininity ! Keep the male dominance out of sports and things that matter. And agree, when a girl wins a scholarship they'll just claim it must be because she's really a boy so doesn't qualify.My peak trans was back in 2012, I think. I was 12 at the time, and just getting into the whole "feminism" thing, mostly through social media. I was hanging out in the most popular russian-speaking community of liberal feminists at the time. I would mostly accept things, but some things were just... debatable.I remember the exact picture that sparked my interest in a different point of view.It was the whole social ladder - with transwomen of colour being at the very bottom, of course. The picture was an illustration for an article, and there was that phrase most of you are familiar with - "to be a woman means to feel like one".And it didn't make any sense to me. I never "felt like a girl" in my normal life. The time when I was reminded of my sex was always painful. I "felt like a girl" when getting chased by drunk men wanting to "get to know me". I "felt like a girl" when I would get chastised for not wearing skirts. I "felt like a girl" when I would wake up to a bloody bedsheet after starting my period.It wasn't something inside of my head. It was outside of my control. It was my body, and everything that people wanted to do with it.I couldn't understand how something like that could be a pure feeling that people could choose to get in and out of.I saw somebody ask similar questions in the comments. They were silenced and deleted within minutes.Wow. Thats nuts. I didnt realize it was an issue in Russia, too. Being a woman seems like a worse situation there and I guess I assumed women would see through the trans bullshitBasically, there is a nasty situation, with most of the people rejecting any notion of feminism, the government pushing ultra conservative values down everyone's throats and the educated west-oriented minority being deep in the swamp of trans ideology.It's quite crazy, indeed. Glad I'm out of there.First peak: hearing from TRA-supporting libfem friends that it is transphobic to speak of the female reproductive system and its health problems. I have had serious problems with my reproductive system since I was a girl, and we need to be able to talk about how institutional sexism in medicine affects diagnosis and proper treatment. We need to be able to talk about how women are expected to just silently accept pain, and how our pleasure is an afterthought, and that affects how our doctors view us.I will occasionally see TRAspeak show up in women's medical support groups, but thankfully it is rare so far.Second peak is sad and I will post it later.Ive seen this argument even from women who identify as nonbinary or transmasculine.  Its super frustrating.  For the people I know in real life, I cant even say if men or women are worse about claiming that sex isnt binary.The medical profession is still carrying on in the tradition of "the founder of gynecology" J. Marion Sims.Libfems have really latched onto prioritizing male comfort in all spaces, it's just unreal.Soooooo, we are to put men's feelings over cervical cancer? Ask these fools if i.s transphobic to get a smear test.  If it comes back bad,  is it transphobic to go to a woman's group for support.If so,  are they saying women should suffer in silence to spare the feelings of people with penises ? Ask them how this differs from any other oppression from people with penises. If the answer is,  because they think they are women,  ask them if they themselves would ever,  for example, tell a woman rejoicing in a pregnancy to shut up if they themselves were infertile.Ask them when prioritizing penis people selfish demands became feminismIt's actually TIFs who no longer want the word women to be used for women's healthcare, they decided to be men and now it's not fair, and that right there is about the only legit case that someone can actually be the opposite sex, because apparently male entitlement crosses DNA boundaries.Yeah but I dont believe for a second that its TIfs that are behind the push for linguistic erasure (of women and reproductive health). Since when do people (including health organizations) bend over backwards to accommodate (actual) women? And the trans movement doesnt care about TIfs. They only care about TIfs when they can be useful for optics and what not. Its the people born male and socialized accordingly that want to make the language used to describe women's material reality/reproductive health gender neutral or whatever. Because they hate women. And they hate what they cant have/purchase/surgically mimic.Agree women, especially TIFs, just don't have that power, no way would men hand it to them without a big fight. But like all of them they have to go along for it to work.Then....then I saw a little pin (woohoo pinterest) that had vague gender critical themes, that was "don't steal my post you nasty terfs but here's my radical aligned gender critical idea but Hey fuck you still" more than anything. I was like okay, cool, makes sense, I'll have to watch out for these so called 'terfs ' though. I accumulated a few more of those points throughout the next few months, still not outright saying I supported any of it, kind of afraid to, but secretly agreeing in my mind. Like I said, I can't remember exactly what triggered it, but I went down a Pinterest hole of radical feminism and I was hooked - everything makes sense. The world was tilted at 79 and now it's right side up again.in my day to day real life, I haven't experienced hardly any extreme TRA stuff, but I'm still pretty angry at everything going down. Female biology is super important and we should have every right to discuss and distinguish it, not go back 40 years in time. Lesbians like myself (although again I haven't personally experienced much homophobia living in the Bay Area, CA) need to be recognized as actual fucking people with real sexualities and boundaries that cannot be manipulated at the whims of men. Seeing female friends who were slightly uncomfortable with overt femininity suddenly transitioning into boys is very startling and absolutely does not address the actual problems of sexism and society's General rejection of woman that they're trying to escape. I could keep going....Point is yeah, I'm totally gender critical and I do not approve of the new trans movement. I am a young lesbian girl, hopefully someday a WOMAN, surrounded by modern trans activism's newest recruits, and I will not stand for it.Best of luck to you Sister.Thank you, and to you tooYeah! This is very hopeful!I first became aware of the trans issue back in 2015. I thought that it was an interesting debate but didn't really see the wider non-theoretical implications of the issue. I spoke to a couple of people about my gender critical ideas but was shut down pretty quickly. It was probably "call me Caitlyn" that first attracted my interest although I don't really remember.I moved overseas, started a new job, got married and then re-discovered the trans issue last year due to publicity surrounding the UK GRA consultation. Kudos to all the women who recognised the crucial importance of this debate and kept pulling for years and years with no-one behind you.Hello, all. I've been a radfem for about a year (I think?) now. I can't exactly pinpoint an exact peak trans moment for me, but one of the things that threw me was the fact that transwomen are being considered female in crime statistics. As someone who is getting a degree in criminal justice, this is just alarming to me. Not only is it skewing statistics for women, but it also puts women in women's prison's in danger, especially if the transwomen are imprisoned for violent or sex crimes.A kind of peak trans moment was this past year, when I was still with my ex-boyfriend. He had a group of friends that he would play roleplaying games with, two of them being identical male twins. One of them, however, was a transwoman. Cool, okay, fine. I didn't end up liking him. At all. Not because he was trans but because he was so god damn annoying. What bothered me about his trans situation is that he made absolutely zero effort to transition, yet expected everyone to call him she/her pronouns. The only thing that he would do on occasion is wear makeup and heels sometimes. Another thing that bothered me was that he was apparently a sex educator, where he taught people how to engage in certain kinks properly, including BDSM and bodily-fluid play (I'm not sure what that is called). In addition to being gender-critical, I am also kink and porn-critical, so that was just the icing on the cake. He would do these things and just constantly talk about what it is to be a woman, when he very clearly has zero idea what being a woman is. I am all for having men who want to wear makeup and dresses and heels, but it is only when they say that it makes them a woman that I have issue with it.I used to be very pro-trans, but then I started reading radfem stuff and saw the absolute toxicity and male-centrism that is liberal feminism and the TRA community. However, when I was pro-trans, I always got a sour taste in my mouth whenever I would say "trans women are women", because I knew, even then, that they very much were not. I first started questioning it with Caitlyn Jenner, when he was called Woman of the Year for getting plastic surgery and changing his name. I am at a very liberal school with a very active LGBT community so I can't voice these opinions out loud, and the only people who agree with me are people who I disagree with on very fundamental moral issues, so I'm glad this thread exists.Of course when there's any crime against them they're fine with being labeled transgender, but why do authorities go along with it?Right. I suppose its because they want to push the whole hate crime false statistics theyre spreading. I dont wish any harm on anybody, ever. But the whole 1 in 12 trans people are murdered every year is misleading at best and completely false at worst. If 1 in 12 were really murdered there would be dramatic drops in trans populations every year. On top of that, they blame us, women who only DISAGREE with their logic on gender politics, for any trans murder when, as usual, its always men who are murdering them.Another kind of peak for me was the fact that whenever I see a post by a trans person online, they ALWAYS need to point out the fact that theyre trans, and the comments are full of you are valid! Youre beautiful! And stuff. I saw a post on tumblr where someone said that TERFs are ugly and yadda yadda yadda. Someone responded with a picture of a trans woman, claiming it was a TERF. The OP responded saying Id give you a 2/10 at best. So even their SUPPORTERS lie to them when it comes to it.Now theres the wave on tumblr targeting TEHMs - trans exclusive homosexual males. Theyre throwing a fit because people are acknowledging thats sexual orientation is based on SEX.Wonder what happens when the LG part of the LBGT realize they're all going QT and revolt.Trans people are murdered like prostitutes are murdered, being alone, dressed skimpily, late hours, but no one gives a crap when it's women, and trans assaults and murders often involve other transgender partners and/or domestic partners, just like any domestic abuse. The statistics are skewed, the group with the highest rates of murder are actually men.Wonder if this world will ever have activists again that center the murder and assault of females.Thats what I hope feminism will turn into. We need anti-porn, female-only feminism again. We need to take a page from the women in South Koreas book, who are refusing to marry, have sex with, or even really engage with men. Theyre taking to the streets to protest sex-based oppression, most recently being spy cams in womens bathrooms that have the videos uploaded to porn sites.However, USs feminism has made the word intersectionality (originally coined to describe the fact that whatever sexism women of color face is racialized and the racism they face is sexualized) interchangeable with inclusivity. I hate that. Feminism is not the catch-all of social movements. Its always been by females, for females, and only for females.Theres a very little chance we could gather radical feminists for a march or protest without libfems and TRAs crashing the party and making a huge deal about how were not being inclusive enough.You take one step forward, youre forced to take two steps back.Just scrolled through a few dozens of comments by a TiM on another subreddit. I can't fucking do it with these semantic mind games. "This word doesn't mean what you think it means. Obviously that makes the colloquial definition that you're using wrong but it doesn't mean what you think it means!! And I'm going to tell you what [I think] it means even if I just said I can't control what it means!!!"This is basically what they're doing. La la la, definitions are descriptive and not prescriptive, can't control how people change language la la. But as soon as, I repeat, as soon as that invalidates someone, it's wrong. If someone can't just throw labels they like onto themselves like a soup can, "it's not your right to invalidate their existence!" but god forbid anyone else offer their 2c about the definition.I guess this is just what we do now huh. Get pissed at people for saying lesbians only like women based on nothing but feelings. Get pissed at TERFs for saying women are female based on nothing but feelings. And while we're at it let's appeal to an authority who doesn't study sex or sexuality. Above all, the only definition of any identity-related word is dictated by me and anyone who agrees with me and that's all.I'm done.That descriptivist argument always kills me. Like if that were really the case, yall wouldnt need so much lobbying and deplatforming and policing for perceived linguistic crimes.When I use a word, Humpty Dumpty said in rather a scornful tone, it means just what I choose it to mean  neither more nor less.The question is, said Alice, whether you can make words mean so many different things.The question is, said Humpty Dumpty, which is to be master  thats all.Best comment all day.  Post modernism in a nutshell And proof that there's nothing new under the sun.Bi Guy supporter. I'm here to listen and lurk so I don't intend to post (err, outside of this). I don't like the feeling of stealing female spaces, but thought this addition may be notable and seems to best place to raise up. I will delete this if it is preferred.Preface to say I can't truthfully say I'm anti trans. My gut reaction is always to try to stay silent and understand when I don't understand something. In real life my social circle is almost entirely female. I know a Trans man an a Trans woman, both went through the common idea of sexual transition, lots of dysphoria, transitioned in adulthood. Neither seem to hold shitty gender notions, but I haven't talked to either that much about it, so I'm not really aware.Online spaces are a whole different question. I joined a certain youtuber's discord. The first alarm-bell was near romanticizing of mental illness, I'd expand but I don't want to sidetrack. The server is ~50% TIMs, Alarm bell 2 was the utter lack of women, there are maybe a handful that show up and leave soon after.First peak was repeated heated debates wherein one transperson more similar to the people I know irl would talk about genital / hormone / facial hair dysphoria, or not interfere in female spaces because they felt they had been too socialized as male / had experienced male privilege pre-transition. In reaction that person would be mobbed by 'not all trans people have dysphoria' that persons experiences apparently didn't conform to the trans as gender essentialism, 'girldick' brigade.Second peak, and the one that made me want to share this all, was one TIM who had identified as trans for 2 years went on a tirade where, pretty much directly after near admitting they felt like their conception of themselves was as a female stereotype. They complained about how gross hygiene disposal bins are and how they don't like seeing them in washrooms and did not understand their point. It was there that I, a guy, knew more about periods than this supposed woman. And had to explain what the point of those bins are / why there are used tampons thrown away in them. I had to inform them why they should not, infact, use them as garbage bins incase someone needs to use them. It was like middle school lesson where all they could say was how yucky it was to them. Naturally they are also into the 'lesbians should accept girldick' thing.It feels like most (not all) transwomen view being a woman as you said, a stereotype. i would watch youtube videos of them when i was a supporter, and their views on being a woman was wearing makeup, being thin, and for some reason liking pink. they also talked about how they knew they were women as children because they liked pink and played with dolls, which bothered me because just because a boy likes the color pink and likes to play with dolls doesn't mean he's secretly a girl. sadly, this thinking has already caused "woke" parents to declare their young sons are girls because they like pink and dolls. same with little girls who are tom boys, many parents online have already branded their little girls as boys because they enjoy playing with trucks and hate wearing dresses.That's honestly horrifying. I'm thinking back to my interests when I was really young and I can guarantee if that kind of person was my parent they would impose it on me.Even though I've been posting here for a long time, I've never posted my peak trans moment because I couldn't remember what exactly it was. Suddenly, tonight, I remembered. This is gonna be long...Years ago (under a different username), I started getting tired of the sub twoxchromosomes because 1. way too many men and 2. tone policing up the ass. A woman could be pouring her heart out about some traumatic event that happened to her and all of the sudden everyone was pointing out how "problematic" her language was, "exclusive," etc. (I didn't connect the dots at the time that so much of that was about "transphobia" and including men in everything - I just thought it was the new feminism/SJW bs and actually went through a long period where I resented feminism because all I saw was liberal feminism. Sad.) I envisioned a private space where women could just be themselves and speak about our anger, our passions, whatever was going on in our lives, and not be attacked for our language unless it was egregiously racist or bigoted. So I made an alternative. The goal was that the only requirement is that you are a woman. I wanted all women to have a place to talk about whatever affects us - it wasn't a feminist sub or anything, just a place for women. (If only I had known about radical feminism back then) I hoped it would bring women from many backgrounds and places together to bond over the one thing we all share.It's dead now, so I won't post it here. But this is what happened...I added a couple of other women who seemed enthusiastic about a women-only space to help me. In retrospect I should not have been the head mod because I didn't have much experience with css and also had a very demanding job, but I wanted to create that space that as far as I could tell did not exist so I went ahead anyway. It was private and we developed an extensive vetting process to ensure people were women involving searching posting histories.Almost immediately a few TIMs applied to join the sub. In my mind they did not count as actual women when it comes to the experiences and socialization we share, but several of the new mods I'd added were very enthusiastic about being open to trans people like it was a given that they had the same experiences as us or something. I didn't want to be called "transphobic," and I figured that there would only a few of them trying to get in, so I reluctantly went ahead with it.Then, as far as they knew, I pretty much dropped off of the face of the earth. I maintained that it was because of my job, but the reality was that LITERALLY ALMOST EVERY NEW APPLICANT WAS A TIM. The posts were all about "passing" or "how do I tell my parents I'm trans" or "HRT is so hard" with one or two actual women's issues like sexism at work or sexual assault. I couldn't deal with it, and I'll admit that I was a coward and just sort of ghosted the sub I'd opened in the first place. I was so pissed off that all of these men had taken over what was supposed to be a WOMAN'S place to vent about horrible shit going on that affects us and turned it into "look how cute I am in a bra" bullshit. I couldn't face it and most of the other moderators seemed totally fine with it so I left things to them. It was partially my fault for not selecting the correct people to mod the place, of course.Months later, I checked in on the sub and found out that they had booted the co-founding mod who actually agreed with my principles because they searched her history and found out she was transphobic, or some other SJW no-no. They also had changed the rules back to the typical SJW tone policing I had opposed in the first place. I got super pissed and kicked all of the mods off and was about to take the sub public because in my mind it no longer served a purpose. Most people were like "Oh no but my parents might find out that I'm trans!" which I expected but I realized that could out a few of the women with actual private issues they may not want public (like experiences with rape) so I changed my mind. I basically went "fuck it" and gave the sub over to the people who were running it before, and fucked off back to my life.So that was my experience with trying to create a space for women. Men WILL try to colonize it, and other women will facilitate their efforts to do so. I love this subreddit so much because the best mods run it and ensure that will never happen here. But it was heartbreaking at the time, and really opened my eyes to how narcissistic men can be in forcing women to cater to their every whim. If we want something they don't have, they will try to take it for themselves however they can. They do not give a fuck about how that affects us.I first started peaking after reading this on BuzzFeed, as well as the comments on it: https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/shannonkeating/can-lesbian-identity-survive-the-gender-revolutionI was so weirded out by the fact that it was only addressing lesbian identity and not gay male identity, and it was the first time I was introduced to the idea that lesbians are supposed to be attracted to people who identify as women not to, you know, females.Oh right, and the fucking worst of this is the notion that lesbianism has "deeply oppressive roots."Maybe the pro-lesbian/anti-TRA comments weren't there when you originally saw it, but I was so glad that most of the comments are criticizing the article and defending a lesbian's homosexuality!the notion that lesbianism has "deeply oppressive roots."My eyes rolled so far back in my head at this.Maybe the future really can be female. That depends on how we define it.Only if we redefine female to include men can the future be female?Way to turn an inspirational message of hope and optimism into a promise that womens liberation is never going to happen. That article is bonkers "why are lesbian spaces disappearing?" And then later "lesbians spaces have been rebranded as inclusionary" (paraphrasing) ..duh... that's why they're gone...Right? At first it's like, "oh cool, this piece is going to explore how lesbian identity is vulnerable and under attack." And that quickly turns into "what... the... hell..."You can choose to identify how you want, and I will be more than happy to respect you, consider your feelings on matters, and treat you as I would want to be treated.That said, I dropped my support when I saw, quite unironically, on twitter: "How come they never tell us trans girls about our periods?"When I mentioned the fact that the posted did not have a uterus and ovaries, and therefore could literally not have periods, I was shouted down because when you start hormones you have "period like symptoms."I don't believe anyone is any particular gender. On one end is total masculinity (whatever that means) and on the other is total femininity (same), and we're all along that line somewhere, maybe multiple places. We're all different. However, unless you fit the build of "has a vagina, ovaries, and a uterus", you can't get periods.As a female identified trans person, I can tell you for a fact that we do not have periods. Sure, we may get headaches if our medication is off but we don't, oh you know, shed blood and tissue from the lining of the uterus.It's insulting to women to claim that we have periods.I'm on your side. It's utterly insane for a trans person to say they have a period. And it demeans women.If youre on my side, stop referring to yourself as female identifying. You cant identify as a female. You either are one or youre not.This sounds like a harsh reply, but I appreciate your honesty. "Trans-identifying" makes sense, and there should be no stigma attached to it. Identifying as any other demographic is problematic. "Asian-identifying"? "Jewish-identifying"? If you can see why those don't work, it should be clear why "female-identifying" is just as offensive.:(Hey Pickle, I like your name!thanks :)You're welcome dear!It's cute.I completely agree. That's something I tried to get across too, but was immediately shouted down. I don't deny for a second that HRT may have some side effects that are unpleasant, but to call it a period? I may be male, but I try to be as respectful as I can towards the process and stay knowledgeable.It's nice to meet someone with a good head on their shoulders who is also trans :)Oh believe you me I know, doesn't take much more than a middle school health class to know how this stuff works lol    Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.A Song of Lilith by Joy Kogawa. It's like my personal Bible. Beautiful poem and illustrations about the story of Lilith and what it is to be Woman.I've been throughly enjoying Miss Fisher's Murder Mysteries on Netflix. I'm not sure it passes the reverse bechedel test...Oh, thanks. I'll try that one.I really enjoyed that show!  Where are you in it?I just finished it and now I'm sad because it is over, but I read there is a movie in post production so now I'm less sad.My mom is a huge fan and we've watched the entire series together.Im watching the Colombo series in order. Its interesting to see how life was in the 70s. The technology played a role in some of the murders. The sexism is very noticeable.I'm watching Columbo too. I've seen them all before a number of times over the years but it's fun to notice new things about it that I hadn't noticed before. Some networks edit out some of the good parts though. Are you watching it on DVD?Im taking the 5th on where we got themlol, same here. ;)I literally can't stop reading romance novels. It's pretty embarrassing but I fucking love them.Im like this with cozy mysteries.  Its super embarrassing but theyre so fun to read.  I like genre fiction generally and wouldnt mind getting into romance novelsI love cozy mysteries too. Specifically I mostly read lesbian ones. They're just fun!another one aboard the fucking love romance novels train. do you have any good recommendations? i've narrowed it down by a lot, but i've been searching for the fluffiest, heartwarming, laugh-out-loud novels i can find. with everything going on, sometimes you just want something that's like a big ol' mug of hot chocolate in your hands.Highly recommend the Julia Quinn Bridgeton series. I am beyond embarrassed to admit this. It's a very sweet series.I'm not judging you when I say I have no interest in romance novels (unless Jane Austen wrote romance novels). But I do love detective/mystery/suspence novels of a certain sort. Most of them I don't like but there are many that I do.And political analysis, philosophy, and history, of course. I am catholic in my tastes.I like romance novels too dont worry. Not all of them of course, and especially not the iffy Married to a Billionaire 50 shades stuff, but more than anything else, romance is about human relationships (whether idealized or not) and I find that interesting.I just finished the Netflix show Bodyguard. Very bingeable with lots of strong female characters and a hot male lead. Some sketchy politics though.Been re-reading the Sailor Moon manga lately. Can't think of another series that treats its female characters with such diversity, agency, and power. It's almost 30 years old and blows most other "feminist" media out of the water.Anyone else binge on Russian Doll??Yes! It's such a good show, all around.I'm only into shows about therapy and death at the moment!I watched a play at my school last night called Rapture, Blister, Burn.  It was really intense - I got very invested in it in a very short amount of time. But I was mostly excited because there are definite radfem themes portrayed in a neutral-to-positive light, like being anti-porn and prostitution. It has four female characters and one male, and very accurately captures the shittiness involved in being a woman, without being excessively bleak. It also has straight-up discussion of feminist figures like Betty Friedan. I was hoping Dworkin would be mentioned, but she wasn't, alas. Anyway, I highly recommend the play. I'd love to get ahold of a script to be able to consider things on my own time; the performance was very fast-paced and intense.Also, I've been watching One Strange Rock on Netflix, I had to take a break after the episode where the guy threw the baby lamb into the volcano, but it's been a good series so far and I guess I understand why they would show that. I had been binging the show for a few hours and needed a break anyway. I would recommend the series though.This is what they're showing, it's in episode three if you want to avoid it, it starts around 27 minutes in and is over by 31 or 32 minutes in https://www.ibtimes.co.uk/indonesia-hindus-throw-live-animals-into-crater-mount-bromo-volcano-gods-1460854Thank you so much for the warningIt's not the most upbeat book, but I really enjoy reading about things like the debate over existence vs nonexistence and the value of life and nature of the universe etc. I've been reading Thomas Ligotti's "The Conspiracy Against The Human Race"Here's an excerpt from the introduction :Like many who have tried their hand at metaphysics, Bahnsen declared that, appearances to the contrary, all reality is the expression of a unified, unchanging force---a cosmic movement that various philosophers have characterized in various ways. To Bahnsen, this force and its movement were monstrous in nature, resulting in a universe of indiscriminate butchery and mutual slaughter among its individuated parts. Additionally, the "universe according to Bahnsen" has never had any hint of design or direction. From the beginning it was a play with no plot and no players that were anything more than portions of a master drive of purposeless self-mutilation. In Bahnsen's philosophy, everything is in engaged in a disordered fantasia of carnage. Everything always tears away at everything else forever. Yet all this commotion in nothingness goes unnoticed by nearly everything involved in it. In a world of nature, as an instance, nothing knows of its embroilment in a festival of massacres. Only Bahnsen's self-conscious Nothing can know of what is going on and be shaken by the tremors of chaos at feast.There is also a bit about Mainlander's theory that the universe is actually God's suicide that I thought was worth transcribing to share with a friend, so I'll post it here as well. It's a bit longer but it's really interesting and well written:As one who had a special plan for the human race, Mainlander was not a modest thinker. "We are not everyday people," he once wrote in the royal third-person, "and must pay dearly for dining at the table of the gods." To top it off, suicide ran in his family. On the day his Philosophy of Redemption was published, Mainlander killed himself, possibly in a fit of megalomania but just as possibly in surrender to the extinction that for him was so attractive and that he avouched for ma most esoteric reason---Deicide.Mainlander was confident that the Will-to-die he believed would well up in humanity had been spiritually grafted into us by a God who, in the beginning, masterminded his own quietus. It seems that existence was a horror to God. Unfortunately God was impervious to the depredations of time. This being so, His only means to get free of himself was by a divine form of suicide.God's plan to suicide himself could not work, though, as long as He existed as a unified entity outside of space-time and matter. Seeking to nullify His oneness so that he could be delivered into nothingness, he shattered himself--big bang like--into the time-bound fragments of the universe, that is, all those objects and organisms that have been accumulating here and there for billions of years. In Mainlander's philosophy ""God knew that he could change from a state of super-reality into non-being only through the development of a real world of multiformity." Employing this strategy, He excluded Himself from being. "God is dead," wrote Mainlander, "and His death was the life of the world." Once the great individuation had been initiated, the momentum of its creator's self-annihilation would continue until everything because exhausted by its own existence, which for human beings meant the faster they learned that happiness was not as good as they thought it would be, the happier they would be to die out.So: The Will-to-Live that Schopenhauer argued activated the world to its torment was revised by his disciple Mainlander not only as evidence of a tortured life within living beings, but also as a cover for a clandestine will in all things to burn themselves out as hastily as possible in the fires of becoming. In this light, human progress is shown to be an ironic symptom that our downfall to extinction has been progressing nicely, because the more things change for the better, the more they progress toward a reliable end. And those who committed suicide, as did Mainlander, would only be forwarding God's blueprint for bringing an end to his creation. Naturally. Those who replaced themselves by procreation were of no help: "Death is succeeded by the absolute nothing: it is the perfect annihilation of each individual in appearance and being, supposing that by him no child has been begotten or born; for otherwise the individual would live on in that." Mainlander's argument that in the long run nonexistence is superior to existence was cobbled together from his unorthodox interpretation of Christian doctrines and from Buddhism as he understood it.As the average conscious mortal knows, Christianity and Buddhism are all for leaving this world behind, with their leave-taking being for destination unknown and impossible to conceive. For Mainlander, these destinations did not exist. His forecast was that one day our will to survive in this life or any other will be universally extinguished by a conscious will to die and stay dead after the example of the Creator. From the standpoint of Mainlander's philosophy, Zapffe's Last Messiah would not be an unwelcome sage but a crowning force of the post-divine era. Rather than resist our end, as Mainlander concludes, we will come to see that "the knowledge that life is worthless is the flower of all human wisdom." Elsewhere the philosopher states, "Life is hell, and the sweet still night of absolute death is the annihilation of hell."Inhospitable to rationality as Mainlander's cosmic scenario may seem, it should nonetheless give pause to anyone who is keen to make sense of the universe. Consider this: If something like God exists, or once existed, what would He not be capable of doing, or undoing? Why should God not want to be done with Himself because, unbeknownst to us, suffering was the essence of His being? Why should He not have brought forth a universe that is one great puppet show destined by Him to be crunched or scattered until absolute nothingness had been established? Why should He fail to see the benefits of nonexistence, as many of His lesser beings have? Revealed scripture there may be that tells a different story. But that does not mean it was revealed by a reliable narrator. Just because He asserted it was all good does not mean he meant what he said. Perhaps He did not want to leave a bad impression by telling us He had absented Himself from the ceremonies before they had begun. Alone, and immortal, nothing needed Him. Per Mainlander, though, He needed to bust out into a universe to complete his project of self-extinction, passing on His Horror piecemeal, so to say, to His creation.Mainlander's first philosophy, and last, is in fact no odder than any religious or secular ethos that presupposes the worth of human life. Both are objectively insupportable and irrational. Mainlander was a pessimist, and, just as with any optimist, he needed something to support his gut feeling about being alive. No one has yet conceived an authoritative reason for the human race should continue or discontinue its being, although some believe they have. Mainlander was sure he had an answer to what he judged to be the worthlessness and pain of existence, and none may peremptorily belie it. Ontologically, Mainlander's thought is delirious; metaphorically, it explains a good deal about human experience; practically, it may in time prove to be consistence with the idea of creation as a structure of creaking bones being eaten from within by a pestilent marrow.That there is redemption to be found in an ecumenical non-existence is an old idea on which Mainlander put a new face. For some it is a cherished idea, like that of a peaceful afterlife or progress toward perfection in this life. The need for such ideas comes out of the fact that existence is a condition with no redeeming qualities. If this were not so, none would need cherished ideas like an ecumenical nonexistence, a peaceful afterlife, or progress toward perfection in this life.I've been obsessed with Mr Robot lately.  Not particularly feminist, main character is a guy, but there are a lot of great characters on the show and I love the style.This was really transparent in Game of Thrones."Oh the rape and prostitution is fine, it's accurate, it's about how horrible feudalism was."But question the shaving, including the barbarian women who don't have metal shaving their vulvas? "Who are you to say they wouldn't remove their hair?" She doesn't even brush her hair or wash her clothes and I'm supposed to believe she pulls all her pubes and body hair out somehow for some reason... The actress even complained about that and the producers wouldn't change their minds.In the books Daenerys almost shits herself to death while also having a miscarriage. They left that out, not sexy. They couldn't even have her be bald after she chilled out in a fire.It's obvious it's really just "dicks first."Yeah, the GoT show went out of their way to add a lot of female nudity and (totally sexy) rape on top of what was already in the books. But sure, it's extremely realistic and necessary to the plot to have a bunch of conversations happen in a whorehouse for no particular reason.It seems really clear the producers/directors of GoT get off on violence against women. I get that the book was violent but its not like they 100% adhered to the plot so does a woman have to be raped every episode?They should have a character die of a completely treatable medical condition every episode to drive home how dark and edgy the world is lmao.No, sometimes a woman can be portrayed as a happy and consenting prostitute who loves her job, and isn't oppressed at all.  I admit I've never read the books, and I only seen a small amount of a few episodes, so not making judgement on plot or storyline.But what also gets me is this apparent pseudo realism of medieval culture (albeit in fantasy setting) of unremitting grimness and everyone gets raped all the time. Sure, the middle ages were dangerous for women - as is today, in different ways - but I just don't think it was some bleak hellscape of Everyday is Rape Day (TM).Off top of my head (rusty on this though), I mean, in fiction, you've got things like Chaucer's the Wife of Bath, where the rape of a girl is seen as a terrible thing and condemns protagonist to wander around for a year under pain of death until he solves a riddle; historically, rape occurs around flashpoints of invasion, as could be sadly expected; e.g,  monk chroniclers are appalled at Normans 'who, laughing among themselves, take by force young girls in front of their weeping (parents)' (cf Viking invasions as well) - the horror written around stories of rape at this crisis points suggests it was not an everyday or accepted part of life; there are strict laws around rape and how to punish it throughout medieval times, including from Viking invaders (once they'd settled down a bit,cf Cnut). Yes, punishments are staggered according to a woman's status but quite frankly it's not different in the 21st century, we're just not so crass to write down it in law.Sex trafficking and slave trade in medieval Ireland and Dublin is repeatedly condemned; when the church in Italy and Spain start to take control over secular marriage, they insist on consent from both parties being written into marital process, which helps prevent bride abduction / rape by forced marriage (1215 lateran council).I can't remember if this was just a medieval story passed down or written in a court case somewhere, but apparently 15th century  Thomas Malory, who wrote Morte d'arthur, was refused entry into noble houses up and down the land as one noblewoman had publicly shamed him as having raped a poor servant girl and wouldn't give him bed or board. Everyone else followed suit, meaning hottest new court author couldn't find a bed for the night, let alone a patron. (May have got some details wrong, studied it yonks ago, but that's gist).I'm not saying that rape didn't happen, of course it did, perhaps with frequency, perhaps with cruelty, there's recorded rapes, and mass rapes, there's a vocabulary for it, there's the invisible, unwritten experiences of the majority of women, there's going to be different definitions and understandings of what rape is, and all kinds of other conditions and caveats, but if my rusty history module in college serves me correctly then the fact that rape is talked about a) in condemnatory terms meriting severe punishment says it wasn't a social neutral or  necessarily normalised part of life for women in feudal/medieval times and b) fiction like Chaucer reflects in some way attitudes if not realities, which suggests a negative attitude to rape and c) a lot of it seems to be written around invasion and conquest - crisis events, not everyday ones....then even their argument that, let's be honest, fecking ubiquitous rape, incest, torture porn, orgies, sexual abuse in GOT is justified in reflecting the gritty, everyday  reality of feudalism in thirteenth century Shite World - even that doesn't hold water.Maybe we can blame it on typical superior attitude we tend to have looking at the past especially 'the Dark Ages' -(obvs those primitives did the old raping an' pillaging like we'd shake hands /s) -  but it just looks like more and more like a nasty excuse to titillate men by claiming it has some bizarre historical merit to it. And in a show with bloody dragons in it!! DRAGONS!!Rape can lead to pregnancy.  Of COURSE any culture/society is going to pay great attention to this, they understood the "birds and the bees" well enough.  Rape! Unwanted pregnancy! Right, patriarchy, paternity is an issue.Game of Thrones is such a train wreck and has a pretty nasty fan base. Like when Sansa was being raped all the fanboys were talking about how it developed Therons character so well.https://gameofthrones.fandom.com/wiki/TheronI think they mean't Theon?Yeah, I thought so too. I just was not sure either way.Gotta make sure we realistically and accurately portray the history of Westeros.It's not just there for the sake of being faithful or anything, they put it in because it affects the plot and they wanted to make a point about surviving violence against women.The disingenuousness of defending rape scenes in popular entertainment as "historically accurate" becomes especially transparent when the show/movie in question involves fantasy elements. There are dragons and wizards and zombies and you're really going to say "that's what things were like back then" when someone criticizes the frequent, gratuitous rape scenes? What things were like back when? Where?I agree with it but I think this is a poor argument. The dragons and wizards and this fantasy stuff are (usually) very well established in the universe.The problem is, so is violence against women. The problem is the men behind it choosing to include only the aspect of violence against women in their realism trope.For me personally, it's a need to get people to acknowledge that violence against women is a choice in these stories. If you have dragons and wizards and zombies, clearly being real isn't what you're going for. Like dragons and wizards and zombies, violence against women is a choice, an addition, that the writer made for their story. It's like, if you can imagine a world with dragons and wizards and zombies, I think you can imagine a world without violence against women, you know?This is why I love the "Dealing With Dragons" (Enchanted Forest?) series, and always will. It is about a princess who doesn't want to be a princess (because you know, of how useless princesses are meant to be), so she learns to swordfight and runs off to make friends with the King of the Dragons, who is actually female. There is also a powerful female witch who lives in the Enchanted Forest, and when the princess meets male characters they all fall totally in love with her, since she is brilliant, intelligent, and brave, and kicks ass, and the whole series subverts sexism in fantasy, has zero rape scenes and is all about the inner lives of women.So, yeah, but...history???My take on it too, as a writer, is that if you add in fantasy elements like magic, the question would have to be: "Why aren't all these raped women learning magic?" I know the fanboys would argue they aren't allowed, but... please. If even ONE woman managed to, you can't tell me that it didn't occur to her to create herself an army of formerly-oppressed, magic-wielding all woman army eager to do her bidding? They act as if adding fantasy elements wouldn't change anything else about how the world works. Bollocks, I say to that.Even if something is fantasy, human nature has to seem somewhat realistic and male violence against women has always been a thing no matter the time period. Its part of the male psyche and to erase it would mean building a universe where men treat women as equals takes some creativity.It is mans nature to take advantage of those weaker, especially during times of war and chaos, but often even during times of peace women are taken advantage of.So the universe has to somehow compensate for the physical and reproductive vulnerability of women to close the gap. In some cases its magic. Either way, it takes some creativity to come up with an alternate universe where the evilness in mens heart will allow everything else (lying, cheating, stealing, murder, pillaging, war) yet not include rape.Thats not to say I approve rape scenes, I am only making a point about creating a world where the sexes are equal but you still want to make it a Game if Thrones type story.human nature has to seem somewhat realisticThere's many different facets to human nature. You don't have to focus on the sexual violence of men or even the dynamic between the sexes. We are told stories all the time about extraordinary people or extraordinary times. As you say, it's a matter of creativity.How many 15 year old girls do you know can command armies? None of them. Somehow we can all suspend our disbelieve that a teenager is leading an army but suddenly require absolute realism when it comes to people raping mentally disabled women (which isn't even central to the plot)?Even if something is fantasy, human nature has to seem somewhat realistic and male violence against women has always been a thing no matter the time period.It's human nature seen through a particular late 20th century lens that was old-fashioned even at the time it was written.A large part of good fantasy is keeping this vs grounded when they need to be. Having people get killed is also a choice GRRM made, characters not being happy 100% of the time is also a choice. ASOIAFs appeal for me is its morally complex  characters and political dynamics, especially those that arise from fantasy elements interacting with realistic people. If you have a Mad King who's happy to burn people alive, he's probably going to be a OK with raping people too.There are plenty of stories with morally complex characters and political dynamics without the gratuitous rape and violence of ASOIAF. IIRC, LotR, despite being a total sausage fest, managed without the rape and violence (just to give a contemporary mainstream example). It's entirely possible. To put this element into a story is either a conscious choice or it's a lack of imagination.Lord of the Rings is not contemporary with A Song of Ice and Fire.I just get to the most obvious conclusion. Writers are products of their environment. Lord of the Rings lacks an obsession with sexual violence because Tolkein was preoccupied with race and class instead. These were the big controversial topics of his time. George R. R. Martin comes from a time and a culture more obsessed with sexual violence.Never watched game of thrones. My argument is referring all modern medieval fantasy settings.It especially drives me nuts with fantasy settings. Its FANTASY, theres no reason to adhere to actual past human cultural mores.Amen to this. So often, the sexual violence adds little to nothing to the plot and could so very easily be left out. It's just there for gratuitous ~realism~.And only against women and girl. Men and boys got raped too but they dont show that. They dont show eunuchs being castrated either.GoT more than any other show lays bare how much of an audience there is for rape. It is basically just regular mainstream pornography added into the show, since this is what men watch when they are at home alone anyway.This is why I wonder about when we tell our stories of rape, how many men get off on it (a lot of them, probably). I still hope to find a way to tell a story of rape that is not only about injustice but the humanity and pain of the victim, and the craven, cowardly, insecure nature of the rapist, to dispel the myth in the collective male mind that rapists are somehow "powerful," "dominating" (they  usually choose the weakest, most vulnerable victims) or "masculine." I want to see more depictions of being a man as being absolutely disgusted with this kind of treatment of women, and I think it would be great for boys to directly link in their minds being disgusted with this kind of treatment of women, and actually meeting and having a chance with real women (apparently this has actually happened irl--no doubt many times--a reformed incel has decided to quit his obsessive hatred of women for not sleeping with him, and his seething, rapey fantasies, and focuses instead on his interests and becoming a happier person, and then lo and behold, he finds a girlfriend, without even having examined his own misogyny or resentment, simply by lightening the fuck up and deciding the focus of his life won't be treating women as objects to pursue).I wish some men would step up and write books and TV shows for boys about how to resist masculine indoctrination and what it means to be a good person.It's "realism" but women are also lying about being oppressed for centuries. Pick one, assholes.Makes me think of the shitfest that breaks out whenever developers dare to diversify their games. Yes, your games were terrifyingly accurate depictions of the horrors of warfare right up until a woman or a black person showed up. /sThis is what the show Spartacus was all about. Gratuitous rape. Rape scenes were showed almost every episode.I never watched Game of thrones for this particular reason, and Vikings. Fuck everyones opinion, im never going to change my mind. Female misery is not some glamourizer, its terrible reality for too many of us and i refuse to watch media showing this pain as something sexyGame of Thrones is way, waaaay worse than Vikings.55 minutes agoAgreed.  The female characters are much stronger in Vikings and there is a lot less sexual violence.I see this sometimes with video games as well. There's no way to criticize or praise a game having no black people or for including women respectively while having "that's not realistic" be an unlikely argument. If you show the real brutality of some real events - "I use video games as escapism. I don't need to see that." There may be an existing fallacy that applies to the logic I just used, but I hate it regardless. Every male protagonist can be a one-man-army bullet sponge who doesn't take orders from no one and doesn't question his morality after killing dozens of people, but try any other type of protagonist in any other situation and it's bad news bears. They'll complain about the SJWs taking over the gaming industry and forcing their agenda on their games, all because someone dared to talk about anything remotely relevant to anyone other than a straight white man. No one (hyperbole beyond words) actually cares about realism until something encroaches on their fantasies.I think it's fine for fantasy to discuss such things as well as other depressing subjects. It's just that the obsession with it and the quantity we're objected to if we dare watch TV is really creepy. I've stopped watching investigation and police TV shows for the same reason.Yes, I don't think it's automatically bad to have rape in fiction, but it often feels like writers just default to violence against women, often as a background thing that's not even essential to the plot, as a way to make things ~dark~ and edgy. There are so many other ways they could do that and it's very telling that they keep coming back to rape.Realism argument when talking about popular culture is supremely stupid. It's commercial at it's core  It's because fiction reflects the fixations of the time it was written, and fantasy tends to be slightly-to-very conservative. Sci fi tends to go in the opposite direction. There are exceptions. Both sci fi and fantasy say more about the time they're written in than whatever past or future era they're depicting.Lord of the Rings has this fixation on class and ethnicity because it was written at a time when people were preoccupied with imperialism, eugenics and the threat of revolution. It also contains religious themes because there'd been a long culture war being waged since Darwin.A Song of Ice and Fire is a product of the sexual revolution in the 60s and its aftereffects. It's also a response to second-wave feminism and the increasing focus on male violence and power imbalances between men and women in sex. Even its political intricacy in terms of plot reflects a sense that geopolitics in particular is shady. The way that everyone is so damn scheming and selfish - that's a reflection of the individualism of the end of the 20th century and the start of the 21st.ETA: Actually, thinking about it, ASOIAF is a bit thematically old hat already, kinda like LOTR was for its time. That's part of the appeal to its audience. Sorry to any fantasy fiction fans out there.Why even include violence at all? It's ridiculous and doesn't add anything of value.Some people find it entertaining? I think it can serve a purpose in story telling.Gross. By that logic, so could rape.Sure, and some incredibly heart-wrenching and thought-provoking stories and artworks have been created around the topic of rape.Perhaps you disagree with GoT's particular presentation of violence, but I personally wouldn't dismiss the concept entirely as something of no value.Yeah someone responded to a post I made about a couple of shows with this.I get why they wouldn't want people to look ugly ugly, I mean, the actors have other shows to be in. I agree with the rest, and the general idea here.It's the worst with fantasy stuff, like DnD or Game of Thrones.Like, yeah, how dare we not have sexual violence, that's not at all an accurate depiction of the histories of Faerun and Westeros!  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.  My childrens father (using that term loosely) is a TiM and in coming out he told me he wasnt sure if he would continue being a parent or not. He said if he did choose to do so he wouldnt want to be mum or dad, but an Aunty. He said he could never be in the role of a parent again because of his new found real self. I would have never accepted him wanting to be called mum. Its insulting. Thankfully he chose not to be involved at all so Ive never had to deal with that ridiculous scenario.Theres a tim politician in massachusetts called alexandra chandler who has kids with his wife who has been with him through his transition and it makes me angry because they dont even know what its like to have the fertility issues of a lesbian couple and clearly literally used his penis and sperm ejaculated into her and yet he gets to be called a mother? okP.S. "she" was one of the speakers who took over the WOMENS march to talk about trans issues.We literally have nothing in common with these men. Their concerns are about forcing the world to deny reality. Our concerns about the reality women face. The two literally have nothing to do with each other.A friend of mine split from a (now) TIM and all of a sudden goes from papa to mom. I just feel for the kid. You can definitely have two moms in a family, or a non gestational mom, but to expect a TWO year old to switch to mom amidst a nasty split... just fucking selfish and self absorbed. And to refer to your ex as her "other mom"... it makes me cringe when I deal with him.Also how insanely traumatizing it must it be for young children to be told that their father no longer exists and has somehow transformed into a second mother.But, as in all things, Tim's desires trump everyone else's interests. Just think of the ~validation~ he feels when his kids are forced to call him mommy for the first time!This happened to an acquaintance who has a daughter: shortly after divorcing her husband he came out as trans. This middle aged dude immediately becomes a star in the local feminist activist scene (libfems are handmaidens and LOVE TIMs, as we know). He gets this maternity group to support him in accusing the mother of parental alienation and transphobia, and campaigning that he is also a mother. The support group calls out a MARCH to support him! This acquaintance is a very private person and suddenly saw her daughter's pictures plastered all over facebook. Fortunately, feminists intervened by asking a bunch of questions: "have you heard the other side? Do we actually know what's happening? Do we just take his word for it? You are shaming a mother without even knowing what is really going on!". Their page started to get bombarded so they pulled off.I'm just going to say it: 75% of the issues we have with TIMs comes from WOMEN who support them on the expense of other women. The mental contortions and justifications these women resort to justify their support of the most outrageous behaviours just show that they don't see TIMs as women. I'm so sick of transmaidens.Being responsible for a child while performing femininity is not grounds for erasing true motherhood.  It is one of the defining qualities of the female sex.  You can't have it...because you aren't female.54 minutes agoOk so let me get this straight, I have to say "pregnant people" and call breast feeding "chest-feeding" but certain men performing femininity are allowed to call themselves mothers? This is absurd.  I get what you're saying, but you're just giving them more fuel for the "terf" fire. Everything you said about what they DON'T do can be said for adoptive mothers as well, except for "caregiver".Women aren't naturally caregivers, that's a gender role. As individuals, we may be caring and empathetic and giving, etc etc, but taking those traits and turning them into "the caregiver" is harmful.So, what makes a woman who adopts a child a mother?EDIT: Or what about 2 lesbian women who have children... only one gestates, are they both mothers or only one?So what is the difference between a mother and father? Its just a gendered term for parent. They can never be a BIRTH mother. They can be a non-birth-parent...  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.I'm still spitting mad about an article I started reading on Buzzfeed (that prestigious news source). It started with a paragraph about an ailment "...that affects people who were assigned female at birth". And the ailment?  PCOS!!!  Gggrrrrr!Wow it seems like assigning people female at birth is pretty dangerous. They should stop doing it!BahahaThats so spot on.Random high pitch choking laughter.  Good thing my kids already think I am crazy and weird hahaIt started with a paragraph about an ailment "...that affects people who were assigned female at birth"You know, I just cannot get over how buzzfeed publishes articles like "are sweatpants cultural appropriation" but all that cultural sensitivity goes out the window when it comes to the co-option of terms used by the intersex community to describe often traumatic surgeries imposed upon them as infants.>are sweatpants cultural appropriation?I know. We really need to stop appropriating 80s culture. Next people will be wearing legwarmers and listening to Duran Duran and that is just so insensitive.BLOCKED and REPORTED!  Stay safe, everyone!For all the lip service given to POC in liberal feminism, they ignore how utterly difficult they make it for ESOL (English as a Second or Other Language) speakers. Many POC are ESOL speakers and modern politics is loaded with bloated, bloviating terminology. "People who assigned female at birth?" Jesus, I'm tired just reading it. You mean women?Yeah, it's hard enough to keep up with shifting and complex terminology when you are a native speaker, considering how quickly things change and how what is acceptable one day will become offensive the next.Like, I've seen AFAB, CAFAB (coercively, because you didn't consent I guess?), DFAB, and probably others I've forgotten about. Who can even keep track?I agree that Buzzfeed is often super annoying (holy crap I would have left an angry-ass comment on that article if I'd seen it!), but I just wanted to add (since it's not widely known) that Buzzfeed News (the one that's broken big political stories, etc) and Buzzfeed (the one that tells you what Friends character you're most like after you click on 5 different types of desserts) are separate organizations, with completely separate staff and writers/journalists. The two being conflated is one of the reasons Buzzfeed News often gets written off as not being a "real" news org, when in reality they've actually got some fantastic investigative journalists working for them and have broken some major news stories in recent years.And yes, this is mainly Buzzfeed's fault for not choosing a more different name for their legit news outlet spinoff team! Seriously, they're candidates for "poor branding choice of the century" with that one...I was just about to say this, thank you!Yeah, Vice & Vice News have this same problem.  Their news & documentaries are deep & thought-provoking...their articles are pure idiocy.That isnt even true though. Intersex people with complete androgen insensitivity will be assigned female at birth, but they dont have ovaries and can never get PCOS. Some people with congenital adrenal hyperplasia can be assigned male at birth, but have ovaries and so can have PCOS  I have CAH and almost none of us are assigned the opposite sex. You're seen as either female or male with a disorder of sexual development. It's pretty obvious I have a vagina, even if it looks slightly off.I've had to deal with a ton of shitty health problems because of this. I've never had a mental breakdown over my identity because I'm too busy making sure I balance my electrolytes and don't die. I have huge problems with maintaining sodium and potassium; I have zero problems with intake forms.You know what sucks way more than being misgendered? Seizures from critically low potassium.Or constant hospitalizations from low sodium/potassium or adrenal insufficiencies.Such tortured syntaxThe nurse's response seems to be pretty representative of how the average person actually feels about all this in my experience. Playing along because it's polite/required, but not actually believing any of it.I think it's helpful for women to speak up about shit that bothers us, because otherwise the Administrator Math works like this:1 Super Upset Genderspecial Person > 100 indifferent normiesAnd that's pretty fair, really; if something really really matters to a minority of people, and doesn't matter to everyone else, then why not just make the change to help out the minority group?  If most people think it's silly but it helps a small number of people feel better, why not play along?For those of us who feel that it's more than just silly, it's offensive, we have to be prepared to speak up enough that the Administrator Math changes:1 Super Upset Genderspecial Person < dozens of women who are insulted by the suggestion their cervix is an identityThis!! Like I'm not at the gyno because I feel female. I'm there to make sure there's no cancer growing on my cervix. Having female organs is not a gender role.u/thrwpllw  Your flair reminded me of that pivotal scene in The Crucible where John Proctor refuses to sully his good name. I see a lot of parallels between that play and this current trend.PROCTOR: You are the high court, your word is good enough! Tell them I confessed myself; say Proctor broke his knees and wept like a woman; say what you will, but my name cannotDANFORTH, with suspicion: It is the same, is it not? If I report it or you sign to it?PROCTOR, he knows it is insane: No, it is not the same! What others say and what I sign to is not the same!DANFORTH: Why? Do you mean to deny this confession when you are free?PROCTOR: I mean to deny nothing!DANFORTH: Then explain to me, Mr. Proctor, why you will not letPROCTOR, with a cry of his whole soul: Because it is my name! Because I cannot have another in my life! Because I lie and sign myself to lies! Because I am not worth the dust on the feet of them that hang! How may I live without my name? I have given you my soul; leave me my name!This.Oh, I hope so. I need hope.Last year I traveled with a friend to her appointment at a major/elite healthcare center in the US, one of the institutions considered the cream of the crop in the American medical world.We sat together while she used their iPad/digital device to complete their digital patient questionnaire. "Oh look," she said, "they're asking me about one of your favorite subjects." She handed the device to me. It was a full two digital pages asking about the patient's gender identity. It was the generic/universal questionnaire given to every patient, for any medical speciality/department, at registration.I suggested she type in answers similar to yours but she reported there was a low/strict character limit on answers and that some answers even limited one's responses to a selection from a drop-down menu (seems odd; wouldn't more rather than less info from the patient be encouraged?)While she completed the medical questionnaire, I looked about me. Most of the patients in the waiting room at this particular medical department had grey or white hair. I wondered how a 75+-year old woman or man must react to seeing evidence that the esteemed medical provider she or he relies on for lifesaving/preserving, research-driven healthcare subscribes to a quasi-spiritual philosophy such that the institution's literature and medical records systems are set up in accordance with that belief system.Were I applying to that institution for diagnosis or treatment, my confidence that they are the best and brightest in their field, informed by serious research, would plummet upon seeing their patient questionnaire.Another venerable institution bites the dust of trans activist ideology.It was a full two digital pages asking about the patient's gender identity. It was the generic/universal questionnaire given to every patient, for any medical speciality/department, at registration.Why two whole pages? Hormones should probably be listed with medications. What more would they need to ask then birth sex, pronouns, and a multiple choice about genitals?NBTwo things that stuck in my mind: they asked for Sex Assigned at Birth, and the many options under Gender Identity included "Transgender Female (Male to Female)" and "Transgender Male (Female to Male)."That was when I experienced the confidence plummet. One of the allegedly finest medical institutions in the world refers to the act of a healthcare provider delivering a baby and recording its sex as assigning a sex to a human being? And that institution also refers to men who wish to be women as "transgender females," as  if the word transgender is an adjective describing a type or subcategory of female? They endorse the framing of transgenderism as Male to Female and Female to Male, as if one's sex for medical purposes can actually change to another sex.These are the top medical doctors and researchers in a wealthy country? Terrifying.And all that extra information doesn't actually tell you anything. As we're well aware, a trans-identified male could be anywhere from medication-free and surgery-free to just meds/no surgery to post-operative and on a complex hormonal regimen. These details don't actually help the doctor make any relevant decisions because the category is functionally meaningless.Exactly! Its been screamed time and time again that all a man needs to do is say I am woman and BAM! Transgender female. Completely meaningless.Yeah, I heard that assigning is really only relevant to intersex patients. I highly doubt these new forms are helping with them.Because the ones who want to make everyone bow to their fantasy have all the money, so they'll make the institutions bow to their whims.They are completely useless. CAH is already in my chart, it's listed on the intake form as well. That's more than enough information to conclude that perhaps there might be an identity issue or incongruity with genitals and pronouns or whatever. But 90% of the time we're quite obviously male or female, our junk looks a little different but it varies extremely widely from person to person.I don't know why they went into such depth on the general New Patient registration questionnaire for all medical areas/specialties.I wasn't the one filling out the questionnaire so I did not take the time to read every question. The font was large, which takes up space. There were also many options to select from when answering the gender identity question; multiple permutations of sex+gender identity combinations were listed with radio buttons/tick boxes next to each.They also had a small/almost afterthought question about sexual orientation, which was, annoyingly, grouped in the same section as gender ID.Oh how nice, the rich AGP TIMs want to validate the Tumblr gender bandwagon.But the T belongs in LGBT because then they can't use liberal guilt about homophobia to move quickly /s.I can assure you right now that no medical/science staff were involved in creating that form.It would have been some wooly brained administration manager who pushed it up the chain as being necessary and important. Probably achieved after 30 separate meetings about inclusivity.When we (medical staff) read those forms we are basically looking for "red flags" in patient history. No one cares about pronouns, especially at a large hospital.I've seen what happens usually with this staff. Any deviation from normal people and usually someone just places "patient is transgender" in the notes to the great annoyance of medical staff trained overseas.They think that opposing this stuff is "white feminism"? They should hear how people from outside the USA talk about it.  Are you seriously saying that some of us are noted as being transgender in our histories? Without our knowledge?Who the fuck do physicians think they are? Why has power gone to their heads to such a degree that they carelessly write such harmful, incorrect shit in people's medical history?I've been fighting to correct the outright lies in my med history for years, to no avail. It says I have two living children. I ask the staff how old they are and what their names are, because I've never met them. It also says I use chewing tobacco, which I don't. I stopped smoking 5 years ago and have never used chew.So it's really fucking frustrating that people have so much power over my life. I get worse treatment because of the awful fucking notes physicians put in my record based on rumors and opinions. None of it is factual, in fact the vast majority of it is lies told by my NPD mother I cut contact with. She told them all kinds of insane things about me that were untrue, and it still affects my care to this day. The administration only let's you correct one thing at a time and it takes months of paperwork and phone calls.So I'm really quite fucking furious that this is happening. I'm fucking angry at how much power those stupid little notes have over our lives. I'm angry that we're not allowed to change obvious untruths in our records. I'm fucking FURIOUS that medical professionals can chose to exclude information when you request your records. That shouldn't be an option EVER.And now this bullshit is happening. So even MORE lies and shitty harmful rumors in our records. How the fuck can women get appropriate treatment when physicians use the note section to gossip and talk shit about the patient?No, if you fill out the form saying  anything like "I identify as transgender" or any of the weird pronouns then you will be marked as transgender in your notes. Just like we note smoking history, age, sex and what we have spoken about/done during your visit.It's not gossip, they're called progress notesThe rest of your comment is irrelevant and quite frankly, an overreaction to what was said.If you're talking about the Mayo Clinic, I'm not surprised. Everyone that lives here knows it's a joke. They only care about the sickest and most extreme cases that they can research and publish about. If you're a young woman that suspects she has an invisible chronic illness steer clear of the Mayo.  My dad is retired and does consultation work now to keep himself occupied. His last project was a presentation for a Gov agency and he had to take a 2 day "gender sensitivity" course as part of his contract. He told me it was as stupid as you'd imagine.TWO DAYS.Oh my god, fuck off. TWO DAYS for something entirely unrelated to his actual work? Are they funding that for every contractor? Has anyone calculated the cost? Even a two-hour compulsory course on this bullshit would be annoying but two fucking days. You can learn actual useful skills in that time!!!My dad specializes in agriculture too so it's really fucking stupid.Well, he can't very well go around calling flowers staminate or pistillate without asking them how they identify, can he??heheheheThis is the kind of quality content I like to see on reddit.Two days seems incredibly excessive when the information boils down to If its a dude wearing lipstick call him a lady or we will get sued.I've been through some agonizing mandatory presentations myself. But halfway through the first day of gender nonsense would have me seriously recalculating whether or not I needed the money.He wanted to sit through it to have a "full perspective", as he put it, so he can tell people off. My dad is awesome.This is actually a bigger moment and turning point in history. We have officially given control of the asylum to the inmates. They have proven they can get us to accept the most ridiculous, anti-science conclusions masquerading as science just so that we don't look mean.It is downhill from here. It really is. In Rules for Radicals and Art of War it says to push until resistance and never give back ground.Seriously, we have to get over our allergy to being mean.Allergies are all in the mind, Lemon.The ref. I love your pronouns answer so very much.This is a template we all could follow!I would just write WOMAN in huge letters across the entire section, I ain't got time for their crap!They validate them there, that's what they doWe validate your parking and your gender, too!lolllI'm really glad you did this.  I know someone who works at a software firm that shall remain nameless that is dominant in the medical chart biz and my understanding from them is that trans crap is originating with the software company - not the medical establishment.  Again, trans in IT imposing this.Yeah they pat themselves on the back for sneaking it in and being soooo progressiveMakes sense; it seems like a lot of TIMs work in the IT field.I know someone who works at a software firm that shall remain nameless that is dominant in the medical chart biz and my understanding from them is that trans crap is originating with the software company - not the medical establishment. Again, trans in IT imposing this.That's very interesting, thanks.While I can imagine a small solo doctor's office accepting and passing on to its patients without amendment the questionnaire provided them by the outside company, it's harder for me to believe that a large institution like a hospital or medical research center wouldn't have a panel of its own physicians look over and approve the forms before distributing to patients.it's harder for me to believe that a large institution like a hospital or medical research center wouldn't have a panel of its own physicians look over and approve the forms before distributing to patients.We do.If the form didn't ask the right  relevant questions it would've been scrapped.These kinds of demographic questions are essentially useless for medicine and important only to administrators and bureaucrats for data points. That's why no one from the medical side seemingly cares. You might get the odd person fill out it out and deviate from normal but you also get patients who refuse to fill out forms because "You should know this already! I've been coming to this hospital for the past five years!" and for other sorts of idiotic reasons.Knowing your pronouns is about as relevant in medicine as knowing your mothers name was "Glenda".You'd be surprised at how stupid and oblivious hospital admin can be. They have much different goals they have to meet. They're basically at total odds with the actual medical staff.YEP. They changed the online MyChart patient portal in the last few months. They removed some features I regularly used--features that were incredibly useful for someone like me with complicated and chronic health issues-- and added a huge section where you can fill out all your gender accoutrement preferences.They also changed it so the menu has huge childish buttons with pictures instead of a drop down list. That has nothing to do with gender, but I'm already ranting about the stupid website changes so whatever. I'm annoyed with it because it's hard for me to read (I prefer lists due to autism, the big buttons are confusing and difficult to parse).I fucking love the MyChart program online. I'm disabled and sometimes housebound due to complications so the website was really awesome for contacting my team with questions or requests. It's becoming substantially less awesome with all these changes. They've taken away a huge amount of functionality in favor of endless forms about gender identity.That doesn't help housebound patients plan their care better by facilitating easier and clearer communication with their team, it does the exact fucking opposite. I guarantee the people making these decisions didn't consider a housebound disabled person's needs at all when they planned these changes.It's like, how many fucking marginalized groups do trans people have to harm and destroy before their rage is satisfied? The answer is all of them, and then some more.They're emotional black holes. They suck up all the praise and apologies and emotional labor and give nothing back. They suck up resources for women and other marginalized groups, feeding until we're dried out husks, then moving onto the next victim because they're emotional vampires that never feel full.I got one at the dermatologist. It's trying to be woke but it doesn't even make sense from a TRA standpoint (to them, the first 4 choices are synonymous). I chose other and wrote that I don't identify as anything but simply am a biological woman.http://imgur.com/8oSOSLgI wish all women would do what you did!Hilarious. Ive been getting my gyno care at PP. Im pretty sure I didnt see more than a passing reference to gender identity on a form last time I was there, but given the way theyve drunk the trans Kool-Aid its only a matter of time. Maybe I should look into going somewhere else.Wait a minute...I have a question.Are transwomen really interested in going to a GYN? Is this a thing? After going through all that trouble to get a vagina, they want a metal speculum inserted into it on purpose?Is there a legit reason for a gyn visit post-op?All right, so it's more than one question, but the first one generated so many others.i'm not a medical practitioner, but there are several reasons why it would be appropriate to go:-they need prescriptions for their hormones, and these hormones have likely caused breast development (so breast related issues, like cancer screening)-they are likely sexually active (STD screening)now, it remains they have likely retained their prostate (which helps penetrative sex remain pleasurable) so i'm not sure if the gyns also perform that exam (easy enough but probably an atypical procedure for most ob/gyns) or if they go to a urologist (which is where they would definitely end up if there is a problem).I mean, would an OBGYN really be the best person to talk to about their hormones? Aren't there specialists who would be better suited?They would likely see an endo for that, I thinkAn endo isnt as validating.Yeah, an OGBYN will certainly know about hormone treatments to varying degrees and depending on specialty, but ultimately an endocrinologist would be the best person for maintenance, right? cross sex hormonal management of transgender people is totally different than hormone management for women's health. But of course women's health specialists MUST also devote their time and continuing education to male issues (or trying to turn women into men). One of my friends from high school just signed some stupid letter to the north american midwives association asking for them to make HRT a core competency. It's honestly gross to me that women's health specialists should learn how to manage hormones that sterilize and ultimately cause massive health problems for women (TIFs).Excess testosterone in women is a health problem. It's not progressive, it's called PCOS.Yes, endocrinologists.Just a PSA to women having hormonal issues: your PCP will probably refer you to an OBGYN, but unless you have plans to get pregnant in the near future, that's an inappropriate referral.Always, always, always see an endocrinologistif you have hormone issues. Sex hormones interact with and affect so many hormones, not just other sex hormones but pretty serious stuff in the body.OBGYNs aren't trained in this. They only focus on sex hormones, and basically only if you have pregnancy in mind. They aren't well trained on hormones or how they interact with the body. That's 100% endocrinology.I saw OBGYNs for almost a decade with no relief or results. I was often dismissed, told that hormones have zero effect on mood or the rest of the body, or told they refuse to treat me unless I wanted to get pregnant. ALL of that bullshit ended the day I saw an endocrinologist. She saved me from insanity, she saved my fucking life, and I thank whatever God exists that she was there for me.They also go because it validates them.good point!I think after SRS they could also get infections that require similar treatment to those women might get (yeast infections etc)? I know the NHS is sending out PAP smear reminders to TIMs who have changed their sex on official documents. I'm sure some of them go.Ummm but you do a pap smear on a cervixlol exactlyNo, they don't get yeast infections because that's a particular flora found in vaginas. They have 24/7 bacterial vaginosis, or BV. When the flora from neo-vaginas is tested they've found bacteria that's associated with BV. (this actually makes sense because many times when women have chronic BV it's because of the bacteria on their partner's penis)I'm not sure how they would treat it. The gel probably wouldn't work, it's super ineffective compared to the metronidazole pill, but you seriously can't drink at all (you get super bad vomiting, I tried it) when you take it so many people choose the gel.I have an acquaintance whose an OB/GYN and quit her practice to become a hospital admin., for lots of reasons but also partly because of some unpleasant experiences with TIMs.That's so sadI read an opinion article recently that mentioned that men are showing up to OBGYN appointments regularly now because they think they are women. Imagine being the doctor in that situation. Ummm I like totally want to affirm your gender and what not cause YOU ARE VALID!!! But you dont have a vagina so I literally cant help you... and then the person freaks out about transphobiaI wonder how many female (and male) doctors have been forced to capitulate to this testeria and handle cock n balls so that people dont attempt to ruin their medical practice for hate crimes aka noticing biological reality as a DOCTORVery very weird that the medical community just goes along with all of this.Were these questions put on the form for trans men or female transsexuals? I cant really see why a male transsexual would need the gyno.Don't know and exactly.Maybe the questions are for TIFs and enbies...women who "identify" as a male or "neither".But the questions were specifically asking about birth sex.. at an OBGYN..  where we should all be female.True lolI know, and I'm not supporting it. Just pointing out that they also have to cater to TIFs...which is where you get the "but some men" crap. I think there are also TIM's that go to gynecologists as part of their fetish...makes them "feel" more like a woman or whatever.  I imagine the eyerolls are the same at the proctologist's office as well.Edit: because im not too brightWhy at the proctologists office? They see men and women.Thinking of prostate.  My badI was given something similar at the dr recently. Here is my response https://imgur.com/VK3jdwzWhen I started seeing a new primary care doctor last year (who had a private practice) that was the first and only time I've come across it with a doctor. It ended up sort of awkward.First it said the "Sex Assigned at Birth" and the options were woman, man or neither... which was a mess because of the assigned part and not using male or female. I circled woman because it wasn't like I was trying to debate stuff right then. Then it was circle your pronouns. I circled she. Then it had "Gender Identity: (blank space)" and since I was sick, at that point I left it blank and asked my husband what else they wanted? He read the form and asked why it said assigned instead of observed.When the doctor and I were talking and going over everything - she was super thorough with all over it - she noticed that part being blank and asked what my gender identity was. I asked what that even meant.Apparently, that space what meant for me to describe something like "how you would identify if you were traveling through the world but without your body and how you would experience that?" So then I was like... I experience the world through my body, is this about like astral projection? Then she switched to if you could choose any person to be, who would it be and I just told her that I actually like myself and appreciate my body. Which seemed to answer the question?It was weird. Even weirder because she was an osteopath.And also, does this osteopath treat ghosts? Who else travels the world without their body?Yeah... I was soooo lost at that point. Since she seemd to just want to fill in a box and I was really sick and barely slept that week, at first it seemed like maybe I didn't get it. The awkward silences made it clear she wasn't sure what she was asking either but that in our age group, it sort of expected or something. She was really caring and seemed to know what was what with most conditions and medications which made that so much more random and weird. Maybe a bit socially unaware though lolHaha who was a full-fledged woman at birth???  Ive only seen forms like this  for the LSAT  and at the womens clinic so ugh but ya I would fill them out minimally and just leave stupid stuff blankTHEY: [agender on form] "Doc, I have blood coming out of my genitals! Should I be concerned?"DOCTOR: "Uhhh...."Like if there's one person who should be concerned with what genitals a person has, it's a gynecologist.Haha right?Not all heroes wear capes... Sometimes they wear paper gowns with open backsides!Thank you for posting this.Hero. It's so refreshing to hear the truth in your answers. I pledge to do the same if (really, when) I'm faced with a similar form.I see that you deleted your account (so brave!) but also trans "guys" are there to have their female genitalia looked at. That is what the office is for. If said individuals are taking cross-sex hormones, surely they will list those in the "medications" section of the form. Other than calling them "sir" versus "ma'am," I'm not sure how signifying a gender identity is relevant. (My doctor calls me by my name. Whether my name is "Carl" or whatnot doesn't change the fact that I'm there for a pap smear.)I was talking about male people. AKA trans "women." Why would they be there.Still female.Trans identified females are women. Their sex is female, their "gender" doesn't play any role in an appointment to get their vagina checked out.Maybe they do; maybe they don't. But they can indicate SRS in the "surgical history" section of the form and T in the "medications" section, as applicable.But wait.. they don't have functioning vaginas? What does that mean? Does it like close up and grow cobwebs?No, hes deliberately misunderstanding TiF to mean man in a dress, not woman on T.Ahhhhh. Well I don't think there's much an OBGYN can do for that kind of "non-functional" vagina.I think this dude thinks they're like the open wounds Tim's get for life and need to be dialated daily to not close up and "stop working". Ah another male who doesn't understand female anatomy.There apparently is an option for TIFs to have their vaginas sewn up, although it seems to be about as common as phalloplasty, which hardly any TIFs get.Good to know... I've got stuff I like in there but if it's causing them dysphoria, I say go for it.  That's a broad brush you're painting with. Plenty of tims got functioning dicks, we'd know as we get told to suck them often.This is absolutely fucked. I can't believe this is the world we live inThank you so much for posting this using the archive link and following Rule 8.Read the rules then.But you get threatened with rape or harassment and nothing happens to the men if you complain.Fucking sexist bullshit, again and again.But they only want to pee!/sWe are literally seeing women in jail for refusing to allow men to define womanhood in terms of their feelings.So, uh, lemme get this straight, you an get arrested for.... misgendering someone on the internet.  Which amounts to.  Nothing.  But straight and trans people alike can literally say rapey shit like "lesbians can learn to like dick" and that's... A-OK?  Thousands of people can literally fantasize about raping a specific group of people and that's fine?  Jfc.(Edit:  this is not hyperbole, i've literally seen people do this.)  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.  edited 57 minutes agoI don't mean any disrespect, but this is so insane it's hard to believe that it is even real.This sounds straight out of pornography, or some kind of erotica. Her husband got the idea to do this from there. The fantasy of having your wife get fucked by multiple men (and especially doing acts that the husband personally is not allowed to do) is very common.How horrible. I hope he goes to jail.I wonder, are there ever any warning signs that somebody is going to act out in this way? It's scary to think he probably just acted normal.For the posters sake and my own, I hope to God that this is fake. But somehow, I dont think it is :(I wonder, are there ever any warning signs that somebody is going to act out in this way?There usually are. This video talks about the psychology of abuse, patterns of predators, etc.Although I feel like men abuse women regularly and the idea of this doesn't surprise me at all. Either she was in an abusive relationship with gaslighting and moving the abuse to be a little more and more extreme, or this was made up.Predators just don't work this way. Otherwise they will be caught and prosecuted, which is what they obviously don't want.It was incredibly important for me to be in an abusive relationship with a sociopath to actually see and understand the knowledge about abuse and the psychology revolving it. Regularly they will push past your boundaries to make you uncomfortable to see how you react. This can be standing too close to you, joking in an inappropriate way, pushing past sexual boundaries, not listening to "no", etc. It takes SO. many. forms. And 'good' victims will reply meekly, or not say anything to avoid a confrontation, avoid escalating a situation, avoid embarrassment or being seen as a bitch.However, if you react strongly and aggressively, usually the boundary pushing will stop. For at least a few months.The fact that this post doesn't talk about any kind of boundary pushing in the past (and actually talks about "what a good marriage they had" seems red flag worthy. A predator is not with a healthy partner that has strong boundaries and will run to police, that's just not how this shit usually works. I wouldn't necessarily be surprised if a situation like this happens, and this could very well be real with information left out... however, the fact that she has the mental wherewithal to post on reddit the entire story, and after getting legal advice, locks herself in the bathroom and calls the police... just seems fishy and doesn't fit with any predatory behavior or abusive behavior.For example, a few days ago about te story about the IUD being ripped out of the woman  seems like perfect predator/abusive relationship 101 with the partner including how great her husband actually is and how she doesn't want to get him in trouble. I think skepticism with anonymous reddit posts is really important, (but in-person victims it's imperative to support the victim), and I am thoroughly skeptical.34 minutes ago  edited 8 minutes agoThank you for the video and descriptive reply!I must say though, I think you are being quick to assume the story is untrue.  The woman might just be having an unusual response to this abuse.Why is it necessary to tear down her story?  While it is an anonymous Reddit post and should be taken at that level, you are tearing into it like any woman's rape story is torn into.  "She wouldn't have acted like THAT."  That type of language doesn't help anyone, and is used against victims daily.  So warning about skepticism is fine but don't go acting like you know what is legit and what isn't.  I have been in an abusive situation, too.  Not all situations are like mine, nor will every situation mirror yours.    You aren't a detective, and if you were, I doubt you would be on here.  edited 2 minutes agoNo. But I don't think I was talking out of my ass about "she wouldn't have acted like THAT" I think there was a lot of great information about the psychology of abuse. I think there are patterns that we can see, from my friends who have been abused, and working with sex trafficking, there ARE patterns. And the fact of the matter is that DV is incredibly hard to prosecute for a reason (because of the patterns that usually occur). But you're right, if this is real this is going to be an open a shut case, especially because her update said that she's following what she should be doing.I'm just saying that I think education on what usually happens and how abuse is well-known to occur, with a great source from a criminal psychologist, is very informative, and education is power.eta: I also don't think that thisWhile it is an anonymous Reddit post and should be taken at that level, you are tearing into it like any woman's rape story is torn intois fair. I talk about how believing women (in real life) is imperative.I guess I am on edge with hard to believe stories like this because 1. it doesn't fit into the psychology of abuse and 2. I just talked to someone in psych warfare and some of her stories of how different nations cause rifts in society include unconscionable fear, and the fact that people could become fearful that regular everyday people can do this, isnt okay.And I am someone who has a HEAVY fear of men in general and normally immediately believe survivors. This just doesn't fit with ANY predatory behavior. But again, if it is real, it's going to be super easy on the detectives.If I didn't have a sense for how sadistic and cruel men tend to be, I'd be temped to think this was fake.However, I've actually read multiple accounts from women at different times in various places in print and on the internet that are just as horrifying as this, and include all these elements. Men who rape their wives on their wedding night, men who act out violent porn fantasies on their partners, men who gang rape women and laugh and joke with each other as they do it, men who assault their girlfriends and then call them a liar when the police show up.Whether or not this particular story is true, it fits so well into the pattern of men's behavior that I know that I feel it doesn't really matter if it's made up. And for people who question why someone would make a reddit post asking for advice on this: I've seen so many women post on this very sub asking for advice on how to deal with men who have abused them. I don't think for a second that all these women were lying, so why should it be any different here.23 minutes agoGod thank you for saying this. You put it way better than I could have. It doesnt matter if this situation specifically is a lie because it has definitely happened hundreds, thousands, millions of times throughout history to women. This is how men behaveVery disappointing that many women here are talking about how fake this isHow about in a womens space we default to believing victims of sexual assault for once? Its not like this sort of thing is even uncommon. Women get gang raped all the time and domestic partners are the most likely ones to commit violence against a woman. Its not a stretch whatsoeverIt's not about believing the woman. It's about whether the post itself was a fabrication or not. There are a lot of trolls operating in subs like legal advice and relation advice that get off on causing drama. They are basically trolls who are skilled at fiction writing. Not saying the story can't be true; it could be. I'm just saying that it looks kind of fake. I mean even the responseIt still feels unreal, I thought we had a good marriage.comes off as fake. I mean, how would it not feel unreal after one has just been raped? The idea that a woman would just 'walk it off' within a day or two seems like something that comes from the psyche of a male fiction writer who has no concept of what rape does to victims.Well reality felt unreal to me after I was raped and it wasnt my husband who did itI really dont fucking get your point, at all. So weirdos potentially writing fiction about plausible scenarios and bringing attention to the seriousness of sexual assault (whether or not inadvertently) means we should vehemently disbelieve a potential sexual assault survivor? This shit is COMMON.Yep. Believing in-person victims is imperative. But I think it's healthy and good media-literacy to recognize that people instigate things on the internet all the time for various reasons. We can be skeptical and still support victims IRL.Partners are also unlikely to call the cops and usually there is an escalation to events that occurs before some bat-shit porn fantasy pops up.DV abuse is important to understand and it's important to understand the psychology of abuse and predators. This does seem like a stretch for various reasons.The IUD being ripped out of a woman the other day, however, was not. It was classic DV and predatory behavior with the woman not wanting to listen to advice because she wanted to protect her husband. There are real victims that seek out support on reddit, but I think we need better media literacy when it comes to the internet, and skepticism with cases and stories like this is healthy.27 minutes agoAre you indirectly calling me media illiterate? Did you take COM101 last semester?This subreddit gets righteously angry at so many injustices women face but when an individual woman and not the bbc is reporting a horrifying experience suddenly its so important that we call her out as a fake? Why? Why is it not more important to empathize with the victim? I dont see it as a stretch at all because these things happen. And abuse victims arent likely to tell a bunch of strangers about long histories of abuse. Something really awful happened and I highly doubt nothing led up to it but of course thats what an abuse victim is going to say.I am always going to side with a victim. Because there is definitely a no zero chance that this situation is real. Calling her a liar only benefits those of us sitting safe at home who dont want to believe that this shit happens every day.  edited 12 minutes agoAre you indirectly calling me media illiterate? Did you take COM101 last semester?I wasn't, but if that feels like you, then you do you, boo.Calling her a liarI never did. I said that we should be skeptical and I also shared a lot about the psychology of abuse, which I think is important to talk about. Because you're right. DV does happen and men regularly abuse women.My point is that: "skepticism with cases and stories like this is healthy."I would never responded to her thread and NOT tell her the appropriate channels to go through after suffering like she did, because you're right, it may be real.But again, skepticism is healthy, and talking about that amongst ourselves and talking about the psychology of abuse and how abuse happens and the boundary pushing that occurs, I think is super important.Why? Why is it not more important to empathize with the victim?We can empathize with the knowledge that this happens, without taking on an anonymous reddit thread's pain and fear that this is how abuse happens. Because psychology shows... that it's not. Abuse, especially stuff on this magnitude doesn't happen out of the blue like this, unless it's a stranger, unless is sex trafficking, etc. But all of those things have warning signs and how she is regarding her husband and her marriage, doesn't seem like that.I have also dealt with tons of abuse, a lot of my friends who started fighting suffered from abuse, one of my friends actually shot her husband and was in a DV situation for a LONG time and talks about abuse, and works in DV shelters now and shares tons of information. I have worked with sex trafficking victims... that thread just isn't how it usually happens without an EASY prosecution... and there are reasons why DV is super hard to put abusers behind bars.Edit: thanks for the edit without the tag.Did you take COM101 last semester?I am a grown women and haven't been in school for ten years, but I did just talk to a woman who did russian psych warfare and it's really fascinating what gets put on the internet and reinvigorated my skepticism for random, not journalistic stories.2 minutes agoI didnt edit the post with or without a tag, and fuck off with your pet name bullshit.Yes, it may be real. That is my whole point. And just because a victim didnt express a history of abuse does not mean 1. that there wasnt one or 2. that abuse doesnt always happen without a history. Ask yourself why you are investing so much time in arguing that we should be skeptical about stories regarding sexual abuse. Because Im not buying that whatsoever. Women around the world face skepticism about their abuse enough; we dont have to add to it in a fucking radical feminist sub.11 minutes agoExcuse me?! Abuse victims absolutely WILL speak about long histories of abuse to strangers, I AM one and have and Reddit has a support sub full of survivors of childhood abuse who tell their stories, it's a freakin part of healing. You don't speak for all abuse victims or survivors, and in your own severe rudeness and condescension, did you take ABUSE VICTIMS AND TRAUMA 101 last semester?!7 minutes agoIm simply saying Im not surprised that the woman did not divulge a long history of abuse during her post, given that the person I was responding to was commenting that her lack of abuse history made her story less likely.I was not intending to make a categorical statement that abuse victims never speak about their trauma and I apologize if you gleaned that perception from what I said.Wow if you think this sort of thing doesnt happen to women all over the earth you are very shelteredWomen get gang raped all the time and many violent sex crimes are facilitated/committed by intimate partners. For all we know the friends paid the husband for access to his wifes body.I really hope it's fake (I do find it odd someone traumatized like that would be on reddit first thing), but I agree, the bar for the worst in people seem to never end being brought lower. We have parents who pimp out their children, a man doing the above to to his wife isn't unbelievable to me.If it's true, I hope the wife gets a chance to cut off the guy's dick.Yeah this happens, but it generally happens where the women dont have access to a smartphone to make a reddit post about it... or it is being done by the super rich, who just order an orphan online or from their Hollywood buddies.59 minutes agoThats some bullshit. Women of all economic classes experience sexual assault at the hands of partners. In addition many economically destitute people have smartphones - they are practically a necessity in the western world.Gang raped by their husband with zero warning and with all the guys joining in not once wondering if this was ok, all having their faces witnessed and laughing about it. I guess you could explain further but your post was cut off by one of those roving rape gangs that come into your house every 20mins.34 minutes agoAre you one of those people who watches news reports about rape victims and demands proof or it didnt happen? Did you empathize with kavanaugh and his beloved calendar?Gang rape is a thing... not sure what the fuck youre alleging here like rape gangs are some highly unusual circumstance. Wake up. Men rape women nonstop, 24/7, all over the world. Sometimes the woman they rape is their wife or daughter or sister or BABY or friend of a friend. The fact that it was people who knew her in this story actually makes it more believable for me. Again, not rare.I wish I had your optimism. Men are routinely fine with gang-rape. Their victims are often screaming, crying, and blacking out. Even making a reddit post isn't that weird. It's validating to hear, "Yes, you've been wronged. Yes, you have a case. Go to the cops," from a bunch of lawyers (read: authority figures on the justice system).39 minutes agoA gang rape happened at my high school to a blacked out girl and the guys passed the video around to their friends. Everyone saying this is not uncommon are completely correct.59 minutes agoCouldnt agree more.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Have you heard of loli/lolicon? That is really messed up...From what I have read, anime simplifies human emotion so much so that people who watch too much of it or read too much manga are unable to relate to real humans.I know this because an ex friend of mine is obsessed with anime. He used to watch some anime series not just once, but three or four times and he couldn't get into real movies/series. I stopped being his friend when I found out he had a groomed a girl when she was 13 and he was 17 (shes 19 now). This might seem unrelated to most people, but I think people who watch anime or too much anime have serious issues.I found out that a lot of guys i used to be friends with were into loli/shota and acted as if it were just another fetish, like nah bro if youre masturbating to the bodies of children, thats pedophilia.I can actually see that, I enjoyed it because I love sci-fi/fantasy stuff, you can do so much with animation that live action cant do yet. But its impossible to separate the negatives from the (very few) positives, imo.And that is so fucked, i believe its likely related. There are too many instances of exactly what you described for it to be coincidence. Im glad you dont have to deal with someone like that in your life, although i imagine it was a difficult thing to deal with.It was difficult for me at the time..I couldn't eat and ended up losing weight since I was so disgusted, and it didn't even happen to me. I just felt bad for the girl and felt disgusted I came into contact with a man like that, even though the only physical contact we had was an accidental graze, I still feel horrible.Im sorry that happened, i understand what you mean though. The knowledge that people like that even exist is nauseating and too much to think about sometimes, knowing them personally, even a little, is one of the worst feelings.Umm, there is anime that is male gazey, has wish fulfillment, or has tons of fanservice, but its a medium, and basically any medium has these to a greater or lesser extent.There is also anime that has complex political or philosophical commentary like Ergo Proxy, Neon Genesis, Legend of The Galactic Heroes, Psycho Pass, Shinsekai Yori, and ghost in the Shell.No anime doesnt oversimply human interaction simply by virtue of the medium. Lots of anime does have terrible writing, which is exacerbated by Japanese culture (see subway groping etc). However, lots of anime is well written and no more problematic than a western animation or television series.I agree with you to an extent. I take issue with not only a lot of the medium but the culture around it. The medium by itself is one thing but it can create a really toxic environment that deserves to be confronted as much as any other.The majority of the anime I watched was stuff like NGE and Akira, which is why I didnt realize there was an entire culture surrounding anime (esp the more recent stuff) that glorifies the male gaze as well as rape/pedophilia.  edited 57 minutes agoI agree and think this is important to remember. Anime is just a medium. It is influenced by cultural values as all products of culture are, but it still remains a medium and anything anyone desires can be injected into a medium. E: Why was I downvoted into the negatives but not the comment I responded to?but I think people who watch anime or too much anime have serious issuesDoes this include Japanese people? Anime is a medium made by Japanese people in Japanese with Japanese people as the primary target audience.i interpreted this as more of a general statement of the weeb culture that permeates a lot of online/real life spaces. Adult men shouldnt be calling  children their waifus or consuming pornography of them :(Im referring to western people in this caseJapan has serious issues.They only outlawed child porn in 2014 and their government is shit to women.That said, I like some anime. I wish there was an editing option to remove or censor certain things in the media you want to watch. Something where it describs the story but can remove sexual violence, gore, alcohol, drugs, physical violence, car crashes, turnips...whatever you don't want but still have the story. There would always be an option to have a verbal description of what you are missing and to watch the original feature.I mean, I like gore and horror and sexual violence in stories when they build things up. I also used tl really like media that was just horrible because I felt like it made me tougher.I do not like children seeing it or it hurting people who may have recently gone through something horrible. I do not like the idea that some grown ass man with too much money gets to lay the foundation for the stories and expectations the next generation has.As a manga reader and an anime watcher, it's been increasingly frustrating. I've found myself growing significantly more picky with what I consume, even more so after encountering radical feminism. A lot of the radfem writings and commentary put words to things that I've been feeling and have been unsure about, and it's a huge relief to discover it all. As I've grown older, I've noticed I've been giving fanservice and things less of a pass, mostly because I understand more of its awfulness, but also because I'm just so fucking tired of it all after so long and after so much. My standards for what I'm willing to spend time on have risen. I'm glad for it, but it still sucks to have to weed through even more trash in hopes of something good.Oh my god I feel you, if im being honest my disillusionment with anime was kind of one of the first things to set me onto the radfem path. Id always considered myself a feminist but speaking out about certain things I found terrible and having other feminists shout me down was a huge eye opener.I know there have got to be decent shows/manga out there somewhere, theres just soooo much garbage and the culture around it seems to keep getting more and more debased.All anime characters I've seen as Twitter profile pics or memes look really young. The anime girls making "ahegao" faces look young. As in like no older than 12. I don't like how childish they look.Youre right. Even the characters who are supposedly adults look too much like children.I'd advice change of companyMen being bad and leeching as they are become just impossible when they're anime fans, for some reasonI agree, I only have one guy friend now lmao and he doesnt like anime. I prefer close friendships with women anyway so it wasnt a huge loss.I really don't get anime, and I've tried to like it or see the appeal. Even the ones that aren't creepy and are mainly for kids get a bad rap because of creepy adult males. People say anime is just adult cartoons like the American ones but with a different art style, eh idk, it just seems odd to me. It's fucking cringey and weird most of the time. So much anime seems to focus on very sexualized young teens as the main characters, yet it's target audience seems to be adult men.. Adult men who obsess over the young anime girls. Like I've never really seen adult men obsessed with characters from stuff like American Dad, Family Guy, Archer, King of the Hill, etc, pretty much any other American adult cartoons. Idk what my point is, I'm just kinda rambling..I started to refuse to even be friends with people who watch anime (or at least talk about it in my vacinity). Every single one turns out to have fucked up ideas they got from anime. Im tired of hearing anime is so broad its a medium yeah well 99% of it is disgusting trash, throw it all away I say!No, I like studio gibli.I mean would you say that people should throw away all film because porn exists?I get that lots of people are weird about it but that doesn't mean all of the stories need to go to the garbage.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.I don't know how leftists didn't go to hell much sooner being that uncritical and conforming. Turns out, identifying as progressive doesn't actually make you one  I think the free and open internet has fucked them up a lot, because it's made their psychotic quest for total conformity all the more apparent.Lots of us commies came here after being banned from leftbook. I left before they could ban me because the misogyny was making me sick.Tbh I kinda like it when that's one of their test questions because I immediately know I will not enjoy being in that groupSamesies. I dip out if they ask stupid shit like that when requesting to join. I am not gonna pretend men are women in a fucking communist group.In two groups I've recently tried to join the first test question was "trans women are women. Yes or no?" even though the groups had nothing to do with gender. It's like pledging to the flag or something.There are two sexes.Gender =/= sex.Do you mean Facebook?  Leftbook refers to the left wing side of facebook.Leftists gave up on fighting the Right, and are now content with symbolic parody and "subversion", as if that's going to make any difference.  Harris aggressive record on online exploitation could pose a problem with two core Democratic constituencies: civil libertarians, who serve as an ideological validator inside the party, and the tech industry, which has served as a cultural one  not to mention the major fundraising power of Silicon Valley.I do think these constituencies are major players in the pro-porn, pro-prostitution, pro-genderism-anti-feminism push of the current American Left."the tech industry" "cultural [validator]" - yeah right, MEN'S CULTURE.  To think a bunch of emotionally stunted machine lovers are driving the CULTURE today....bastards.Its true. That industry is right up there with construction when it comes to being a welcoming environment to women (ie: not at all)Couldn't agree moreImagine being against exploitation. I'm trying to wonder how people even think they have the moral high ground with those platforms.A lot of them and their organizations are on the take, like the ACLU, from the porn lobby.  "Civil libertarians" are nothing but bullshitters just like the economic ones.  They are total human shit and are opposed to the human rights of women and girls.Libertarians are wrong about every single issue because actions have consequences for others and for society as a whole.This isn't the "current American left."  This has been THE left since the late 1960s.  The male left has always despised women.  The only "right" they care about when it comes to women is the "right" to unrestricted sexual access to women and girls.The tech industry is also funded by Saudi money. Not sure if any of it is strings free.Honestly if she played this up in the campaign I'd be more likely to vote for her.This and Harris opposing TIMs transitioning in prison make her the front runner for me. Im sure shell fall in line with the Dems trans worship (at least publicly), but, at this point, the only Democrats Ill enthusiastically support are those I think wont be shy to reverse course when it becomes clear to everyone that the TRM is a penis rights movement. In comparison, the true believers will hang on to the bitter end.  I agree.Harris has a very bad record on criminal justice. Instead if criticizing that we're supposed to be angry that backpage is down and that men can't access women's prisonsExcellent article!!Thanks for sharing this. It was a really good read. My mom had a heart attack around 35. One of her arteries just collapsed. The doctors were horrible, which was probably compounded due to her being Black. First, they refused to believe she wasn't a drug addict and ran multiple drug tests refusing to believe the results. They gave her some kind of medicine (I can't remember the details at the time) bc they didn't believe it was a hear attack which caused another heart attack. She actually flat lined and is one of those cases where she was "brought back." I believe this was all due to the carelessness, sexism, and racism she experienced from her doctors in the ER. Everything did work out, she had surgery and has a stint to replace her artery. After all this, I was terrified of having one too so I read up on heart attacks and found that everything the medical community knows about heart attacks applies to men. The stress test included. When women have heart attacks, they have mini ones first, but it's usually written off or ignored.Text:By Haider Warraich, M.D.Feb. 1, 2019How One Woman Changed What Doctors Know About Heart AttacksThe story of SCAD underscores how much doctors still dont understand, including about heart disease in women.Katherine Leon was 38 and living in Alexandria, Va., when she gave birth to her second son in 2003. She was discharged from the hospital, but instead of getting better, she recalls, she kept feeling worse and worse and worse.Five weeks after she had her child, Ms. Leons husband came back early from work and found her barely able to breathe."I hate to use the word panic, because so many people say if its a woman she is just having a panic attack, but I was terrified, she said.Her husband called 911, and she was taken to the emergency room where, after a few tests, the physicians told her there was nothing wrong with her. She went home but continued to have bouts of chest pain and kept laboring to breathe.Things came to a head several days later, she said, when she developed that impending doom feeling. Reluctantly, she called 911 again. Things went differently in the emergency room this time."There was a young woman doctor who took care of me, said Ms. Leon. Her reaction was totally different. She knew that there was something definitely wrong.A few days later, she underwent an explorative cardiac catheterization procedure and received a devastating diagnosis: She had a critical blockage in the main artery supplying her heart. She would need emergency heart bypass surgery.She remembers thinking at the time:"Are you kidding me? I have two babies and I was going to do the whole mom thing, with playgroups and a jog stroller, and take classes. I may have tried one cigarette in my life. I didnt have cholesterol issues. I didnt have blood pressure issues.She received what at the time was considered one of the rarest possible diagnoses: spontaneous coronary artery dissection, or SCAD.The condition occurs when one of the arteries supplying the heart with oxygen spontaneously tears open, leading to a heart attack that can sometimes be fatal. It occurs most often in women, and can be exacerbated by pregnancy.But at the time, few doctors knew that SCAD even existed, or knew much about it.You are never going to meet anyone else who has this, Ms. Leon remembers one doctor telling her. Another told her, You need to move on and enjoy your children.Her doctors also told her that the only thing she could do to avoid SCAD in the future was to never get pregnant again. But seeking to learn more about the disease that had almost taken her life, she went online and started to find other women with similar symptoms around the world.In 2009, Ms. Leon went to the WomenHeart Science and Leadership Symposium at the Mayo Clinic, where she met Dr. Sharonne N. Hayes, a professor of cardiovascular medicine at Mayo. At that time, the largest study on SCAD included 43 patients."I walked up to Dr. Hayes and told her we had 70 people, and we wanted research, Ms. Leon recalled. She was like, Wow."Everything I learned about SCAD in my medical training was wrong, Dr. Hayes said.By 2010, with the help of Dr. Hayes, and subsequently SCAD Research Inc., an organization founded by Bob Alico, who lost his wife to SCAD, Dr. Hayes devised an innovative way to do research, using online networks of far-flung patients and analyzing genetic and clinical data."We never imagined there would be 1,000 female patients in our virtual registry, Dr. Hayes said.That fortuitous meeting between Ms. Leon and Dr. Hayes has helped transform SCAD from being an unknown, unrecognized condition to something all physicians are taught about during medical school and in later training.SCAD is now recognized as the most common cause of heart attacks in women under 40.Why did it take so long for physicians and researchers to recognize SCAD? The most important reason might have been that the condition predominantly affects women.We listen less well to women, said Dr. Hayes. We are much more likely to associate their symptoms with psychological causes.A heart attack is more likely to be fatal in a young woman than a young man, perhaps because womens cardiac symptoms are more often misattributed to anxiety or depression than mens.The bias that many women feel they face in the clinic or the emergency room has led some, like Ms. Leon, to take action and advocate for themselves and others."People are activated by injustice, by unanswered questions, said Dr. HayesShe offers this advice:"Dont walk out of a doctors office without answers. Find a doctor who is committed to listening to you and does not think they know everything about anything.The story of SCAD underscores how much we doctors still dont understand, including about heart disease in women. Too often those in the medical profession downplay womens complaints, telling them nothing is wrong.Women are often expected to take care of others but too often neglect themselves. Indeed, women take much longer to seek medical care for a heart attack than men.As we embrace new technologies to peer ever deeper inside the human body to find answers, perhaps the better route might be simply to attend to the patient in front of us. Often what we need to do is listen.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.  Jennifer James has apologised for taking 7,000 out the GoFundMe 'Keep All-Women' shortlists female. She has now returned the money to the campaign. Here is what she said:I just want to apologise again for taking out that 7,000 on Feb 8. Even though I was able to put it back in later that day I now get that this was more serious than I thought. I understand I was trite about it. I have since heard that some people were stressed and worried about it and that is entirely my fault. At the end of last week I got very stressed by a creditor's actions and I panicked and made a bad decision. That's not an excuse that's an explanation. I run my own business, renovating properties and had a loan pulled and i shouldn't have done it. I feel bad because you all put your trust in me and I fucked up. I also know that for a few loudmouths I can do nothing right and, to be honest, that's a 'you' problem not a 'me' problem. But carry on, whatever... I know I am pretty 'out there' but I am also COMMITTED to preserving women's rights, safety, dignity and privacy. Under no circumstances will I pull back from this case, it's on, it's happening and the Labour party is going to get smashed in court because they got this wrong and our position is CORRECT. You'll see.She has also been expelled from the Labour Party. Pictures of the letter she received have been uploaded to her campaign page.Edited for grammar.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Transwomen don't want to be women. And they don't want to be failed men - irrelevant and unfuckable. They obsess over porn and women they can't have. They hate women that get the attention they crave. So they mutilate themselves and try to perform femininity...only to find that people don't actually treat them like women, but mentally ill men to be given a wide breadth. And they hate women all the more for it.They don't want to be old or fat or unattractive. And being ignored like real women are is unacceptable to them.They don't want to be women. They want to be a male fantasy of what they think a woman should be - delicate, beautiful, sexually desirable. But not the real stuff that encompasses our lived experiences... They fetishize our pain and suffering. They seek to destroy female spaces and feminism that doesn't center penis. Its narcissistic rage and fetishes that drive most males that identify as trans.Beautifully written5 minutes agoWell saidDon't be obtuse.  No one is saying there is anything wrong with men or women wanting to be beautiful.   This issue is males thinking that beauty and fuckability are the end-all-be-all of womanhood.  Basically.  At least a certain subgroup of them.  From EVERYTHING I've seen, they really just want the asspats & "oh you look so good I NEVER would've guessed you're trans!" type comments.  Just [look] (https://timedotcom.files.wordpress.com/2015/06/bruce-jenner-vanity-fair-cover.jpg) how Caitlyn Jenner [dresses] (https://pmchollywoodlife.files.wordpress.com/2017/01/caitlyn-jenner-mac-new-ad-ftr-1.jpg) as a 60-something trans"woman".Now.  My intention isn't to judge older women or tell them how to dress.  But really?  Being a woman isn't about being fuckable or a sex object, especially for most post-menopausal women in their 60s.  It's about yoga pants, baggy shirts, jeans, T-shirts, sweatpants & other casual practical wear.  No makeup + a pony tail or messy bun some days.  Classy suits for formal affairs or dresses that leave something to the imagination.  I'm not saying go 100% Bea Arthur but...she's a more appropriate representative of the AVERAGE woman of that age range than some of these TiM's.I even heard one tran say he only wanted to be a woman when he was young but "not when things started to sag".  As if young women & old women are totally different species or smtg.  That points to a fetish & love of attention...the need for constant narcissistic supply & ego boosts from others.  Being a woman means being a woman ALL the time, not just when it gets you applause & magazine covers.  Changing your pronouns every other week, fluctuating between male/female/agender/etc so you can correct anyone who 'misgenders' you & all the rest are sure signs of attention-whoring narcissism.Most disturbingly, these guys honestly believe women have it easier in life & can skate by on their looks & pussies.  I've heard that sentiment from the horse's mouth over in some trans subs.  So many of them show a creepy jealousy & hatred toward actual women...it's beyond pathological.As if young women & old women are totally different species or smtg.Many men talk like this.  In my experience, many men talk like this.  It's a classic male point of view and shows that TIMs are just like other men, they don't have different brains, blah blah.2 minutes agoI have seen whole threads of these men talking about why they hate women. A whole bunch of them wrote they feel intense hatred and jealousy but like they want to fuck them hard too. It was sick.They want to be trans. Heaven forbid if their consciousnesses could be transported into an ACTUAL human woman's (MOST of them, anyhow). They wouldn't be able to rant about "cis privilege' because they'd be cis and they'd fucking loathe it. They'd hate being treated like women in the end.They desperately need the attention so gratuitously showered upon them by people like handmaidens and their trans bros. Being trans, and keeping their dicks, is what they truly want.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.though I haven't read the article yet (as yet too lazy to get free trial), the AAP is not alone https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/suicide-fears-from-scottish-council-on-human-bioethics-over-changing-gender-8mvkglccl" ... the Scottish Council on Human Bioethics (SCHB) said it is concerned about a study of 300 people from Sweden who completed biological sex reassignment surgery over 50 years.The 2014 research concluded that the procedure can lead to psychiatric problems and poor socialising, and that there were higher risks of mortality, suicidal behaviour and psychiatric morbidity."Found another subreddit that quoted the text!Scottish ethics experts have warned that people who go through irreversible gender reassignment surgery could be at greater risk of suicide in later life.As ministers consider steps to make it easier for children and adults to change gender, the Scottish Council on Human Bioethics (SCHB) said it is concerned about a study of 300 people from Sweden who completed biological sex reassignment surgery over 50 years.The 2014 research concluded that the procedure can lead to psychiatric problems and poor socialising, and that there were higher risks of mortality, suicidal behaviour and psychiatric morbidity.In a submission to the Scottish government, the SCHB  an independent group of doctors, lawyers, scientists and others associated with medical ethics  noted the research found a link between reassignment surgery and increased suicide risk later.The group said the study did not prove the operation was to blame, but noted a significant minority of transsexuals express regret after irreversible surgery, and that some revert to living in their original sex.Three patients in Belgium who had biological sex reassignment asked later for their lives to end through euthanasia as a result of unbearable mental or physical suffering, the SCHB warns ministers.A 44-year-old transsexual identified as a girl at birth was given voluntary euthanasia in Belgium after failed sex-change operations resulted in permanent depression.Much of the research by the SCHB has centred on gender dysphoria, where a person experiences distress because of a mismatch between their biological sex and gender identity.Dr Calum MacKellar, the SCHBs director of research, urged the Scottish government to avoid changing the Gender Recognition Act without more research.Irreversible gender reassignment surgery should take place only after the person seeking to undergo it has had an extensive and appropriate psychological assessment followed by counselling. It is only when the person is fully informed of all the advantages and risks that he or she can fully give informed consent, said MacKellar.Those affected by gender dysphoria should not become victims of political agendas.At the end of last year, the Scotlands government took a step closer to being the first in the UK to recognise a third gender, after complaints that trans people endure a long and demeaning process to prove their gender identity.Last week Leslie Evans, Scotlands top civil servant, urged privileged non-transgender people to recognise how easy it is for them to access healthcare.The Scottish government said it is considering the next steps following its consultation on the Gender Recognition Act.thanks ! pleased to have read the rest of it; hoping this has an impactAccording to one psychiatrist who helped write the new criteria, the goal was to move toward viewing transgender identification as a normal variation of sexual orientation.The author needs to get her facts straight. Nobody, including psychiatrist Jack Drescher, is claiming that transgenderism is a sexual orientation. That's why it's argued that the "T" doesn't belong with the "LGB."Just so folks are aware, The Federalist is a conservative website/magazine.The organization the doctors in the article are part of, the ACP/American College of Pediatricians (not to be confused with the AAP/American Academy of Pediatricians), is also very conservative. It wasn't so long ago that they were fighting against gay rights.Thank you, was just coming into highlight this.You're welcome! It's important to understand that just because we share a view on this subject doesn't mean these are our allies in any way. Our motivations and intentions are worlds apart.I was reading up a bit on some of the wording and phrasing they've used against gay rights, it's nearly identical. Unfortunately, nowadays, they (and their bedfellows) the only ones who can make claims about the trans epidemic so boldy though.A big societal difference between what they say about homosexuality vs. trans is that LGB studies have repeatedly occurred which disprove their claims. Knowledge and investigation has been allowed and encouraged.But for anything trans-related - nope, not gonna happen. Studies around the world are removed from the public eye, researchers and doctors and teachers are forced to resign from their jobs, financial grants are pulled, everyday people are harassed and arrested and deplatformed, etc etc. MUST NOT SHOW THE OTHER SIDE.We need to tread very carefully in a world where only the far-right is given freedom to speak about the things we're saying. They are not friends of radical feminists, non-RadFem CG people, or women's rights. They are advocates for traditionalism and upholding gender roles.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Makeup is not drag. Even extra looks like this are not drag, though I can see how someone might get them confused at first glance, considering the theatrical quality of the makeup. What this lacks is the mocking, lampooning buffoonery of drag, which is also what makes blackface so abhorrent.I can't help but wonder if the OP from the screenshot was trolling to stir up trouble, or just genuinely confusing the two.I don't think she was trolling, I'm leaning more on towards "genuinely confused" mixed in with "far-right conservative".The tweet was made by a female Canadian journalist known for having ties to white nationalism.Oh, well thats gross. So shes an idiot AND a fascist. Frankly, just about everyone in that comment section is acting like morons.Agreed!Most radfems are critical of the beauty industry and the pressures on women to perform femininity. We do not claim ownership of makeup and see gender as an oppressive system, so accusations of "gender appropriation" don't even make sense being blamed on "terfs."That being said, I think you can still view this man's makeup as being extremely feminine and perhaps even pornified, and to such an extent he would be reinforcing gender rather than breaking it. I'm not sure where my views are on the subject, but I do know idgaf about "gender appropriation," what i do care about, and the only thing I ever care about, is the well-being of women.Yeah I was just thinking this. "Gender appropriation" is ridiculous. Gender needs to be eliminated as a concept.I agreed! Yes interesting point about the makeup, although I am all for men doing things regarded stereotypically as feminine to break gender boundaries BUT it is still women who suffer the most from the perception we need to wear makeup and men wearing this kind of makeup does seem to embrace that version of beauty over others.... I dont know my views either really but you raise a good point - its a complex area.Lots of deleted comments. Lots of "fuck terfs".It's all Venus Envy from the mentally illOooh i like that. Venus envy is shirt materialBased on the comments from moderators Im guessing the deleted content are transphobic remarks. Because only terfs can be transphobic /s or i guess the only transphobia they want to acknowledge is that attributed to feminists :/Someone in that thread said to me 'no terfs are feminists' lmaoooo terf really doesn't mean anything anymore.Well said. I just got banned because of that thread actually. It was weird that they think it's transphobic when a man wearing makeup has nothing to do with trans people in the first place. If anything I think the original tweet is sexist by acting like a man wearing makeup is putting on woman blackface..Yes, thats exactly it! The original tweet is hugely sexist! Not transphobic or anything. Ppl really be dumb. That thread annoyed me so much.  "None of you make any bigoted comments and I won't have to ban the fuck out of anyone."Also posts dumb, bigoted trans maymay.r/insanepeoplefacebook mods confirmed for Trans Acceptance Radical Delusionists.I don't even agree with the whole "gender appropriation" shit just because the dude wore some makeup; even drag queens don't bother me because it's really just pantomime, they don't pretend as though they're actually female like TIMs do.Ha!Yeah, fuck TRADs. I hope they CHOKE on their favorite ice cream, cough, feel better, and continue eating their ice cream.Because I'm not a fucking violent, insane, entitled, murderous monster.Lol I got my comments removed on this in beauty guru chatter after this was cross posted and an official warning that i'd be banned if I didn't stop it with the "TERF" comments. The offending comments? That wearing makeup doesn't make you a woman. On a post about how James Charles is wearing makeup, and he's very much a man. :)Yeah it's not woman face to me because women don't look like that.From the comments:I guess by that logic a woman with no makeup is man-faceThis. I can't gaf about men wearing the "beauty ideals" forced on us because I don't even want them? So go ahead, men.Interested in others povs on this thoIm cool with men wearing makeup. Couldnt really give a tinkers cuss one way or another what he slaps on his face to be honest. If it rocks his world, then he should totally go for it. Radical feminism is all about the abolition of gender roles, so I say rock on.This is so well put. I really cant stand people dont give any critical thought to what radfems actually stand for and believe.This was also posted in "onguardforthee" (don't want to link it here) and the top comment was something similar about terfs. "You can undo their whole argument with one thing" and then talked some bullshit that doesn't undo anything from radical feminism.It's only "womanface" if he claims that doing this makes him a woman. He doesn't, he just likes makeup. They're right that makeup=/=womanhood, but if only they could keep going with that line of thought....The two top Canadian subreddits are both fucked. It's either alt-right bullshit or woke left koolaid drinking.20K upvotes, impressive. :)I don't know. There was a post here yesterday saying exactly that about drag. This is a radfem space even if not everyone who posts here is radfem. There's a few topics not everyone here agrees on and this is one of them. I'm trying to find a space where my views align and it's not libfeminism but, after a few posts and comments on here, it's not 100% radfem either.I think drag is quite a lot different from just men wearing make up and having a feminine personality. Pretty much all drag personas are extreme caricatures of women at their absolute worst (shallow, bitchy, bimbo'ish, vain, slutty etc. etc. etc)I don't personally take offence to drag but I can understand why some women would.I am more offended by fully penised TIMs that think a stripper wig turns them into a female, and they try to interfere with women's rights.I do get that and I think it isn't above criticism. I understand it's gone mainstream thanks to RPDR but it's also changed drastically from its origins. I know this sub hates NAMALT and misogyny and racism are a problem in the gay male community, but I also don't feel policing another marginalized group (gay men, gender dysphoric TiMs, and many of them non-white) is productive. There's also Drag Kings who aren't as popular but I wish had more visibility. I'm beginning to feel we also need a gencrit LGB sub away from the feminism aspect because some of the attitudes in here veer really close to homophobia in regards to gay men (coming from straight women and not lesbians).I left libfem spaces because of the sexism but there's been some casual racism and misdirected anger in some of the comments on here. Maybe this place isn't for me and I'll leave if this comment upsets people but the last thing I want is to be in is another echo chamber.  I don't think they're above criticism at all. Gay men did the same exact thing that MtTs are doing right now. They stole aspects of female oppression to play with, then when we say Hey that's not fun, it actually kills women, they scream about how oppressed they are; often with they help of women who have their socialization programming triggered when confronted with the poor, poor gay men (who can literally take off the dress at any time and pass for straight, whereas i can't take my vagina off).You're putting men above women when you give gay men a pass for appropriating our oppression as a comedy act.If gay men felt too oppressed and just HAD to express themselves, why did they have to punch down and make fun of women? Why can't they confront other men about homophobia? Why do they have to mock women to express themselves? Exactly which part of themselves are they expressing when they call our vaginas fishy?I think thats a good idea, making an LGB minus the T space for in depth discussion concerning people of both sexes. This sub has gotten a big enough following that gender critical discussion specific to other groups will probably do well.r/LesBiGay may be a good starting place. It doesn't really take a stance on being GC, but is specifically for LGB.What do you think u/StcStasi? Since you created the sub and all :)Gender is a social construct. I am critical of gender stereotypes. Sexism is harmful for everyone. People are allowed to decide what they are and are not attracted to. Peace out.Why do women keep complaining that this sub doesn't fit their views 100% and then say they are going to leave if it doesn't change to fit them 100%? That's some passive-aggressive, guilt trip, manipulatory garbage. Please stop. And not even all radfems are going to agree on everything all of the time. Even badass feminists in history did not agree 100% with the feminist ideologies of their time.I'm not trying to be passive aggressive, I'm trying to be polite and understand exactly what this sub is or isn't. It's fine to disagree and that's healthy but I'm finding a lot of people on here are just as zealous as the TRAs and are encouraged. I've seen rational comments deleted and the "handmaiden" shit is sexist in itself.I think its important to have debates and accept we wont all agree on some things. Like we are all here because we agree on core issues like gender and feminism and the patriarchy but within that there is scope for debate about how it translates when talking about drag, etc. Im not on here all the time so dont see everything but as long as debate is respectful I dont have a problem with not agreeing with every view put forward as long as I know I can also have a say on an issue.Mine wasn't. My biggest drag appearances were: My college graduation. My company's yearly conference two years in a row.I'll admit I did these things to counter the normal use of drag to negatively stereotype femininity, so maybe I'm just the exception that proves the rule.You aren't. It's not up to you to decide if your depiction of women is offensive or not, it's up to the party you are mimicking, aka women.Drag is not the same as wearing makeup.I have an idea! Lets encourage men to appropriate womanhood by wearing makeup so that we dont have to anymore and can live our lives without smearing toxic chemicals in our faces everydayGo for it, James Charles! You can have it all!I have to laugh when they think feminists are stopping men & trans women from wearing makeup or that we care if trans women want to be in Victoria's secret shows or playboy magazines. By all means, if you want that oppressive, regressive garbage, take it.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.No woman should ever go to Dubai. The chance that any female visitor could be kidnapped and trafficked into prostitution in that city is quite high. And for most women who suffer the kidnapping there, its imprisoned prostitution. Your business wants to have a conference there? Raise a hell no. Its life threatening.I spent a great deal of time in Dubai, as a Middle Eastern dancer.  While the laws can often be oppressive, I was never in any danger of anything like that happening.I watched a documentary once about Eastern European women and Nigerian women being fed bullshit about going to Dubai and providing daycare to a wealthy elite. They were flown over, tricked, then trafficked into a disgusting enslaved prostitution there. One woman, diagnosed with HIV, shared her story of having a hole cut out of a mattress pad in which she could fit her 8-month pregnant belly, and was forced to let the buyer anally rape her from behind. Another woman who couldnt escape decided to kill herself, and jump out of a skyscraper. She survived, relegated to a life in a wheelchair back home in Europe. At least shes no longer enslaved.Dont go to Dubai.You realize there have been multiple cases of foreign women coming to Dubai and having their passports revoked and being kidnapped? Its not something people in this thread made up.43 minutes agoSo you can choose to be an exotic dancer, whatever you like, but I will have a much higher respect for a female western office worker who says "hell no" to travelling there considering the regime and what it does to women. One woman is thinking of the whole, rather than her own wallet.Her father, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum, the ruler of Dubai and prime minister of the United Arab Emirates, owns a large estate and a prominent thoroughbred racing stable, Godolphin, there.Holy shit.Very famous stable in horse racing.I had no idea that was him.this poor woman.It's apartheid, it is.But because it is female apartheid, the world yawns.Whats particularly stark and horrifying to me is that this woman is literally a princess - she is educated, well-off, speaks fluent English, has international friends - and she still cannot get free. Its that oppressive for women there.Yes, it's horrifying.If she can't get free, what hope does the poorest woman have?On Christmas Eve, Dubai released the first public photos of Sheikha Latifa since her disappearance. They showed her sitting with Mary Robinson, the former president of Ireland and former United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, who confirmed that she had met the sheikha at her familys request.Ms. Robinson said Sheikha Latifa was safe with her family, but said she was receiving psychiatric care, calling her a troubled young woman with a serious medical condition.This is a family matter now, Ms. Robinson said.What an absolute fucking nightmare. Special fuck you to Mary Robinson for trying to legitimize Latifa's incarceration.Look up the Magdalene Laundries and their mass graves if you're interested in the type of shit Ireland pulled. It was barely any different to what Saudi Arabia is currently doing, and Mary Robinson was sitting president during the time these prisons were operating.Oh shit. I did know about the Magdalene Laundries but not Robinson's connection to them. Interesting that Robinson tries to reframe this incarceration as rehabilitation similar to what was used to explain away locking away all those women and girls in state-sponsored laundry jail. 'They're fallen women, they need our help, they're better off this way' followed by radio silence.Ugh it's like in the Handmaids Tale when she tries to ask for help from the foreign diplomats but they're just like, eh, no sorry we care more about our trade agreements (or whatever it was), we can't even hear what you're saying, you're fine I am sure.Atwood did base everything in the book on things that have happened in real life.  So I shouldn't be surprised by this one still happening.Technically women can call themselves feminists no matter what they actually believe, but libfems want nothing but to control other women into silence by policing words.I'm really starting to think liberal feminism is some men's rights b.s.There has been a hostile takeover of liberal feminism by men. I noticed it back when so-called feminists were saying, feminism isnt about womens rights, its about equality!! Uh fuck no it isnt about equality its about womens liberationSo if you dont support a move that has been proven to increase sexual harassment against women and girls and remove their privacy and comfort, youre not welcome in the lib dems?But if you support your father, a peodophile convicted of some of the most horrific crimes I have ever heard of, and name him as your election agent while he is undergoing trial for those crimes, youre welcomed with open arms?Guess Im not voting for the lib dems anymore!  Brits, who IS safe to vote for now!?Bloody good question. Ive always been a Labour voter but since Lily Madigan became womens officer (her Twitter is nightmare fuel the last time I looked) and given the lacklustre approach to the brexit situation, Im not feeling particularly pro Labour. The Tories are a definite no for me (even if I swung right, this lot would be a hard no for me) and well ... we can all see where the Lib Dems stand. I guess it leaves the Greens but theyre not really a big party so I seriously doubt it would have much impact.That they would select a trans woman as a womens officer is so insulting.  I wouldnt apply to be a womens office right now because I dont think I have enough female life experience - Ive never been pregnant, never needed an abortion, never given birth, breast fed or raised children.  Ive never needed the protection of a domestic violence shelter.  Although Ive dealt with having periods, suffering sexism, male violence and female-specific health problems.What female experience does this TIM have!? Who thinks he is more qualified than actual women to be the womens officer? How dare he have the audacity to take a political post that should be reserved for women to help other women with problems they face for being women!They dont care about women. Because they are men. Its crystal clear.Oh well. Thats one less vote for the Lib Dems then.So they don't support women's rights. Good to know.How liberalA Liberal Democrat peer has claimed women cannot call themselves feminists unless they support gender neutral toilets.Former minister Lynne Featherstone made the controversial claim as it emerged the party had recruited the transgender daughter of a convicted paedophile as a new diversity officer.Aimee Challenor has been taken on by the party in Coventry despite leaving the Greens after her election agent father was arrested for raping a 10-year-old girl.The move emerged after Baroness Featherstone, who is the Lib Dems energy and climate change spokesman, wrote a blog celebrating LGBT History Month claiming that the party had been campaigning for gender neutral bathrooms, school uniforms and X option on passports, official documents and forms for those who do not wish to identify as male or female.Calling for reform of the Gender Recognition Act, she added: I also have a message to those people who believe they can restrict trans womens rights, deny their human rights or exclude them from women-only spaces in the name of feminists. You are not feminists. Your views are not welcome in the Liberal Democrats.Ms Challenor, 21, withdrew her nomination for deputy leadership of the Green Party when her father, David Challenor, 50, was sentenced last August to 22 years for the rape and torture of a girl in the attic of the family home in Coventry. MS Challenor had twice made her father her election agent for parliamentary candidacy after his arrest, later stating she was not aware of the full extent of the allegations.She was suspended pending an investigation and an independent inquiry by investigations consultancy Verita found MS Challenor had made a serious error of judgment in the appointment and criticised the Greens for failing to see the safeguarding issues.Mr Challenors role within the party meant he continued to have access to young people despite facing trial for 20 serious sexual offences against a child that involved him also dressing up as a girl. He was known as Baloo in the party, after the popular bear character in childrens classic, The Jungle Book.Investigators said they found it hard to understand some of Aimees actions and explanations. She blamed her autism for not having a full understanding of her responsibilities.Ms Challenor has been on the Trans Advisory Group of LGBT charity Stonewall since 2015 and was believed to have been involved in Girlguidings controversial decision last year to allow biological boys to share sleeping space with girls if they identify as transgender.A Liberal Democrat spokesman said the party have a long history of championing and fighting for trans rights and we will continue to do so. The spokesman added that the party was aware of the circumstances surrounding Aimees resignation from the Green Party and made safeguarding a priority.Liberal men don't want any women who don't cater to males. Conservative men don't want any women who don't cater to males. There's a theme there.Dear Lib Dems,If you're yet again going to say anything to get the youth vote, stick with campaigning for a People's Vote on Brexit....aaaaannnnnnd.....they've just lost my vote...  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.A hole is a holeIf people can see that this is offensive, then why can't they see why calling a vagina a front hole is also offensive? Or why calling a surgically constructed hole in a man a vagina also offensive? Why does the logic not follow, especially since the vagina is its own thing and not just a hole for men to fuck?  Men have been making misogynist ads ever since they were created. Remember those sexist ads from the 50s? Exactly. Nothing has changed.Anyways, I used to shop at Lidl once in a while because they have some stuff that I can't find in other supermarkets. I'll stop going there though, not interested in handing them my money for a few snacks. I'll live.Edit: I really can't stand the dudebros claiming "this is what you get for those Gillette ads". This Lidl commercial is not a backlash, it's just typical male misogyny except in modern times disrespecting women DOES come with consequences.What were they even trying to advertise?  I really dont get itThe donut and the bagel. But I think what they really wanted is polarizing.Hole is hole is a misogynistic joke in Germany (not sure if it exists in other countries/languages the same way).It means a hole is a hole and should be fucked no matter to the woman attached.So for example if a guy sleeps with an "ugly" woman one of his sexist pig friends could say "doesn't matter a hole is a hole"The bagel hole and donut hole on the picture are of different size and stand metaphorically for women's vaginas. So no matter if the hole is large or not "hole is hole".It is unbelievably vulgar, sexist and disgusting!Hope it is clearer now it is not so easy to explain in English.We have the same concept in English but the expression for it is "any hole is a goal". Gross I know!Additionally, with hole is hole, those creeps use it here aswell while trying to say that anal and vaginal ones are the same, so they dont care where they stick it into, as long as it is a hole... So disgusting.It definitely exists in other countries. It's a commonly known phrase in English.If a hole is a hole then all those porn-soaks arseholes can fuck a fucking bagel.Thank you for calling this out - and let's all keep posting such offensive ads and changing our shopping habits accordingly  There was a Serbian Lidl commercial that said 'high quality, low prices' represented by a tall man and short woman. Immature and tacky commercials seem to be a trend, then.If I remember correctly the apology was of the typical non-apology kind, i.e. If anyone was offended, we apologize. No, you jerks, you should apologize for the crap you put out there. In freaking 2019.You are nothing but a fuck hole to be abused. Pastry company (???) to German womenGermany is the country of the mega-brothel, who only just upgraded rape law from "must have demonstrated resistance" to "must have said no," so...it's in keeping with the national character.Wow so in the past if you fought a guy off but didnt specifically say no it wasnt considered rape?!?!In the past, if you could not show evidence of having fought, it was not considered rape (many victims freeze and do not fight; furthermore, if you are drunk/drugged/asleep/mentally impaired/ambushed from behind, it's kind of impossible to fight).Now, they realized how ridiculous such a requirement is, so it is required that you have said "no." It's kind of lost on them how again if you are passed-out, mentally-impaired, frozen in shock or fear, gagged, or ambushed and in too much pain to speak, again you might not be able to say "no!"Altogether, it is an astoundingly stupid rape law, yet it is celebrated as a "feminist victory" that it changed from "must demonstrate resistance" to "must have vocalized lack of consent."shakes head Oh, Germany. You have a long way to go.Lidl is a whole supermarket chain here, that makes it even worse as for some people it's the only way to acquire food fast, as not in every town here are shops everywhere. It's one of the main supermarkets along Aldi, Penny, Netto, Edeka, etc... Can't even think of many more.What the fuck? Why on earth is a grocery store even running ads like this? I cant imagine Safeway or Albertsons making misogynistic references to womens genitals like that here in the states...I've heard males use this exact phrase to justify anything from homosexuality to rape to bestiality to pedophilia.One of those things is not like the others, though... (I mean, "justify homosexuality"?)To these sorts of males, they think it needs justification.Lidl is about to open a store near by. Thanks for the heads up.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.For those who dont want to give clicks to Cosmo, the article written by Sarah Stankorb and published 2.5.2019:Lyvonne Picou was a sophomore at Seton Hall University when a guy she liked gave her a copy of a book called I Kissed Dating Goodbye. The paperback had worn, dog-eared pages. On its cover, a young man tipped his fedora like Cary Grantor like a finance guy dressed way too on-the-nose for a speakeasy bar he read about on Yelp. Nevermind the books title (Lyvonne and the guy never did get together)she devoured IKDG, as it became known to its devotees, between classes and in random spots around campus. She found it romanticlike a fairy tale.Its a strange choice of words to describe a manifesto on extreme sexual abstinence. Harris promoted saving yourself for marriage, which Lyvonnethen a self-described born-again virgin who had fallen in with an evangelical crowdwas already planning to do. But as the title suggests, Harris went even further than that, making the case for giving up dating entirelyno hanging out with guys one-on-one, no kissing, even no holding hands.Instead, people who wanted to get married should have a courtship approved by the womans parents. In IKDG and subsequent books, Harris said this would protect against heartbreak and sexual sin (plus store up more passion for marriage).I started romanticizing the idea of not being physical, Lyvonne says. My relationship would be pure and perfect. I totally bought into it.She and some friends from her gospel choir set about following Harriss dictates, trying to keep my legs closed, she says, so that God would send me a chocolate man who was 6 foot 3 with a killer smile. It wasnt always easyin the eight years that followed, she had slipups, each ending with a burning rush of shame.Once, things got out of hand with a male friend, who kissed her and licked her nipples. She burst into tears. That she was a survivor of childhood sexual abuse only intensified her regret. I felt ashamed of my body and trauma, she says. I didnt know how to reconcile it with my faith.Lyvonne was far from alone: An extreme focus on sexual purity has left a generation of women riddled with shame, anxiety, and PTSD-type symptoms, writes researcher and former evangelical Linda Kay Klein in her new book, Pure. We went to war with ourselves, our own bodies, our own sexual natures, she says, all under the strict commandment of the church.Using the hashtag #IKDGStories, which calls attention to the aftermath of Harriss work, one woman wrote that her virginity had been so central to her self-worth that even after years of therapy, she experienced painful vaginismus (a severe tightening of the vagina often linked to anxiety around sex) when she tried to have intercourse.Samantha Field, now 31, describes staying with a sexually abusive partner for years, believing that because theyd had sex, she was disgusting garbage that no one else would want. I have to constantly fight against the lie that because I wasnt pure enough, that because I had dressed provocatively and allowed myself to be alone with him, that I invited it, she wrote on her blog.Lyvonne says she struggled with feeling damaged, broken, dirty, and evil for years. We were supposed to kiss dating good-bye, but I kissed sexuality good-bye.Then last October, Harris, who had by then become an influential megachurch pastor, pulled a sudden 180 and disavowed much of his work, even going as far as to ask his publishers to stop printing IKDG and two books that followed it.For the women whod molded their lives to conform to his demands, moving on wasnt so easy.Joshua Harris isnt solely responsible for the rise of purity culture, but he was perhaps its most persuasive prophet, especially among young women. The movement began in the 1980s and early 90s when evangelical Christians started lobbying the government to fund abstinence-only education in schools as the AIDS crisis raged. An organization called True Love Waits, founded by the Southern Baptist Convention, popularized pledge cards with which young people could swear off sex until the day I enter a biblical marriage. The pledges spread from Baptist gatherings to Catholic churches to Christian rock concerts. In todays lingo, they went viral.And they kept spreading: In 1994, True Love Waits hosted a rally on the National Mall displaying more than 210,000 cards from teenagers across the country pledging to remain pure. Activists scored a meeting with President Bill Clinton. Four years later, Congress allocated $50 million annually for abstinence-only sexual education.More than any other Christian religious dictatelike, say, feeding the poornot having sex (or at least saying you were not having sex) became the way for evangelical young people to live out their faith, writes Klein. And they wanted the merch to prove it: purity rings, pins, and bracelets engraved with Bible versesnot to mention thong underwear emblazoned with One life, one lovepopped up in online stores or in some cases at mainstream retailers like Walmart. Unlike Catholicism, which has clear doctrine and leadership, evangelical subculture lacks a traditional hierarchy. Early on, its ideas were spread by charismatic pastors and, later, televangelists and sprawling megachurches. Then came a thriving market of Christian pop culture: books, movies, music, and a circuit of hired speakers.When Harristhe handsome son of a prominent homeschooling advocate whod been publishing his own Christian teen magazineburst onto the scene in 1997, it was primed for him. In IKDG, he told the story of his own conversion in personal terms. Formerly girl crazy, he felt called to live a more virtuous life, threw out a Penthouse magazine he had stolen (and returned to the store to pay for it), broke up with his girlfriendtheyd been violating each others purityand wrote his blockbuster book in less than a year. That he was 21 when the book was published and not an ordained preacher was no problem. Evangelicalism is built to give authority to men in particular, says Dianna Anderson, whose youth group in South Dakota followed Harriss no-dating model. Even a 19-year-old man can become an authority on a subject because he says this is what God wanted.In its first year, I Kissed Dating Goodbye sold more than 118,000 copies, a feat for a small Christian relationship guidebook. (Today, that number has risen to 1.2 million.) Harris instantly made purity cool to young people. If you are part of that homeschool culture or that larger evangelical culture and heres this young, good-looking guy giving you instructions on how to be the kind of woman he would want to marry, youre going to eat that up, says Sara Moslener, a lecturer in the department of philosophy and religion at Central Michigan University.Seemingly overnight, Harris had groupies. Samantha had been given a purity ring by her parents at age 16 (Girls in our area would wear their rings until their wedding day and then gift them to their husbands in a nice box, she says). After IKDG was published, fedoras became de rigueur on campus at her alma mater, Pensacola Christian College. I didnt have a crush on him specifically, but guys who sounded and acted like him became more attractive, says Samantha. Harris even appeared on Bill Maher to discuss dating and relationships with Ben Affleck, who sagely asked how youd ever find The One if you couldnt date.Emily Joy, now 27, grew up with Harriss booksafter IKDG, he would publish five moreand calls them foundational to my understanding of what a healthy relationship should be. And yet, as a teenager, his writing made her hypervigilant of everything my body was doing at all times, she says. She feared full-frontal hugs because if a boy pressed against her breasts, she might inadvertently cause him to have lustful thoughts, which, according to Harris, could set him on the path to damnation. Never mind that Emily was queer (she didnt know it at the time). For years, it felt like every muscle in my body was clenched, she says, as she tried to avoid turning men on.Samantha was also feeling the pressure. I had such fear over my own sexuality, she says. The book taught me that it must be tightly restrained, almost viciously controlled, or you might die. Harris used that threat. (In IKDG, he wrote of spiritual death in stark terms: No matter how good impuritys victims may be or how holy theyve been in the past, if they set foot in her house, they speed toward death on an expressway with no exits.)After finally escaping her abusive ex, Samantha tried to have sex within the confines of a healthy relationship at age 25. The first time I tried to give my now-husband a blow job, it was a massive trigger, she says. I was in tears, shaking, nauseated. I had to heal from a lot of trauma.On a Friday in November, I called Harris, who answered from a coffee shop in Canada, where he moved after leaving the ministry in 2015. I deeply, deeply regret any part that my writing contributed to women being led to a really unhealthy view of their body, their sexuality, he told me. His about-face began in 2012, when a sexual-abuse scandal rocked the megachurch where he was a pastor. The abuse happened before Harriss time, but he was accused, with other church leaders, of not reporting allegations to police sooner (Harris left the church shortly thereafter). During this reckoning, he also heard from congregants about how the church and his books had harmed them. So last year, he finally posted a blockbuster statement to his website: To those who read my book and were misdirected or unhelpfully influenced by it, I am sincerely sorry.I regret any way that my ideas restricted you, hurt you, or gave you a less-than-biblical view of yourself, your sexuality, your relationships, and God.Now, he goes further. When I look at the way courtship played out for the majority of the people and the environment it created, I do think it is a failed enterprise, he says.In November, Harris released a documentary titled 'I Survived I Kissed Dating Goodbye,' which features women and men talking about how the book affected them. But by then, not everyone was buying what he was selling (Harris says he will not profit from the film). The secular media was receptive, painting him as contrite and searching. But many ex-evangelicals remained skeptical.Samantha and Emily helped start the #IKDGStories hashtag in part to ensure that Harris would not control the womens narratives. Using the hashtag, women shared stories of waiting indefinitely for a husband to materialize, spending years lonely and riddled with guilt if they masturbated, or blaming themselves for their sexual abuse. Harris asked for permission to use some of the stories on his website and his documentary, but Samantha and Emily, at least, were suspicious of Harriss trueTo some of these women, Harriss so-called apology tour still feels incomplete and convenient, like a desperate plea for relevance or a rebranding rather than a serious reevaluation. I dont remember where I was when he issued his apology, but I was pissed, says Emily. Its very clear to me from the documentary that he is sorry for the wrapping paper of his beliefs but not the actual beliefs themselves. To her, Harris hasnt gone far enough to address the LGBTQ community. Instead of making a documentary, maybe he should just come back to us once hes unlearned it all, she says. Come back to us when youre sex-positive.One woman on Twitter cut him more slack: I feel bad for Josh Harris these days, to be honest....He has to live with a lot of peoples pain.But he was 21. Everyones dumb at 21. No publisher should have given him the time of day. No Christian leaders or parents should have given his message that kind of power.Harris, for his part, tells me, I basically started to see that real harm can come even though there are good intentions....I wish I had seen these problems sooner.If for some reason youd like to snag a copy of I Kissed Dating Goodbye, you can still buy one on Amazon for $9. (Its officially out of print, but others of Harriss books remain in production.) Still, purity culture, while past its heyday, lives on, in daddy-daughter purity ceremonies and organizations like Silver Ring Thing, which preaches in high schools, churches, and other venues using high-energy music, videos, dramas, special effects, and comedy.And although there may not be a new Harris on the holiness circuit, purity has other big advocates. Since President Trump took office, federal funding for abstinence-only education has surged for the first time since 2008. Meaning the sexist ideology that so many women say made them feel self-hatred and shame about their bodies will continue to be served up right after science class.Some women are fighting back from within. Samantha is currently attending seminary and hopes to write about gender and politics in Christianity. Lyvonne eventually started therapy and became a pastor herself, focused on helping womenin particular black womenheal from sexual trauma and warped views of sex. There are so many out there, she says, left reeling by men like Harris. (Hes now running a marketing business in Vancouver.) Lyvonne wants these women to demand more from their churches. You cant do that if youre sitting in the back pew, she says, cowed by anxiety, silenced by shame.Instead of making a documentary, maybe he should just come back to us once hes unlearned it all, she says. Come back to us when youre sex-positive.See, this is a trap, too. Sex Positive benefits men more than it does women.One woman on Twitter cut him more slack: I feel bad for Josh Harris these days, to be honest....He has to live with a lot of peoples pain.But he was 21. Everyones dumb at 21. No publisher should have given him the time of day. No Christian leaders or parents should have given his message that kind of power.He......really wasn't the designer of purity culture. He was just the face of it. I think that's important to note. It goes deeper. Rad fems are portrayed as dark, hateful shrews who want to destroy love and family. Pomos agree with fundies 100% on that. I wish more people would hear us out and see how we make more sense.He was a kid who got given a platform he should never have been given, because other kids would listen to him and consider him inspirational, when they wouldn't listen as raptly to the older men whose mouthpiece he was. Josh Harris and his ilk have done untold damage to young (mostly Christian, overwhelmingly homeschooled or Christian-schooled) people around the world. I don't think Harris himself is or was evil, and I think he was doing his best. He had shitty advice from shitty people who he trusted, and he took it, same as any of us would at 21.Source: purity wars veteran based in New Zealand.Honestly, I'm a bit skeptical myself.  I suspect he was starting to realize it was all bullshit and wanted to get away while he still could.Part of me wants to believe he really has seen the harm that purity ideology causes, and another part of me wonders if a story about extramarital affairs or children who were fathered by him out of marriage is going to come out. I hope its genuine, but it seems akin to how a lot of ex-gay spokespeople either get outed or come out ahead of a story.I'm not holding my breath that he's actually a decent person.Go around hurting an entire generation of young Christian women and then once that's not profitable anymore change your tune. There's a pair of women youtubers who were big time models and now theyre hardcore purity cultists, basically the opposite approach.Isn't it great how you can make money off evil then make even more simply by claiming to no longer be that way? Disgusting.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Unfortunately you probably encountered people who are citizens of the US or the UK, both have reached a point where their societies and cultures are totally falling apart and have become incredibly unhealthy and rather disgusting. They are also egocentric societies full of citizens completely incapable of understanding that people from other countries might be posting, and completely unwilling to even consider the possibility that the views of citizens from other countries might actually be the "correct" ones.Yep, we're a really mean and/or stupid country. Very selfish. Even the so called caring "socialists" will throw poor people, minorities and women under the bus gladly.You did nothing wrong, and you are not ignorant. Males who identify as females are DEFINITELY not more oppressed than actual women who are killed due to our biology worldwide. They have tendencies toward suicide because they have a mental disorder and mental disorders cause these problems.But thats not our problem as women. We can want trans individuals to be safe and have access to health care and housing without also accepting males into female spaces. The two are not mutually exclusive despite what the trans lobby claims.And yes you are called a fascist if you disagree with leftists on this one point even if you align with leftist views in every other way. Ive been called conservative, right wing, a man, hitler, etc for these beliefs but the notion of women being forced to allow men into our spaces because they claim to be us is important enough to me that I dont care.Confused. They had their talking points ready and waiting to confuse and gaslight women speaking the obvious, they had already infiltrated a lot of feminist groups. The first attack against me sorry to say came from lesbians who thought I was male for some reason and gay.They were the only lesbians I know of who did it though since, after that it was older feminists, now it's young feminists and A LOT of "woke bros" going along, finally gave up when actually physically threatened by a very large, very manly, TIM.  edited 18 minutes agoWhy are there transgenders on twoXchromosomes??? The fuck?Edit: my dumbass wrote the wrong "there"I made that very question and they banned meMy boyfriend's best friend got in my face and called a cunt after I made a jab about his borderline too-young girlfriend. It felt weird. It was like I couldn't stand up for myself because I was afraid of how the situation would progress; I feared for my safety despite being in a very public place even with my boyfriend. I was shocked and almost triumphant in that someone else had to have seen the sexism and violence that had taken place right in front of everyone... It was just.. weird.Sorry if this is a complete misinterpretation of your question. Feel free to delete if it doesn't belong here :)3 minutes agoThis is exactly what I wanted to hear, I had mixed feelings about the whole exchange on the mentioned sub and I wanted to know if any of you felt something similarIt really does make you feel powerless  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.So... womens rights have improved in 17 years? Are they indicating that US intervention in Afghanistan has helped women achieve rights there? Ive always been against the war effort but I had not heard this.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.There are humans who are good enough to be called men, and everyone else will have to settle for being a non-man.  It just so happens that non-men who have penises are centered among non-men, and men with vaginas are invisible and never seem to have the success and privilege that men with penises have.I wonder what these privileged and unprivileged groups might have in common...?Men are persons.  Women are not.  So, it is easy for them to think of women and label women as others, because they never thought women were otherwise to begin with.Most five year olds would tell you that boys have a penis and girls have a vagina (extra credit to anyone who knows what film I'm referencing).  So unfortunately I cant give you an ELI5 that would make any sense to even a 5 year old.Is "I am womxn, hear me roar" gonna become a thing now?Kindergarten CopWe have a winnerWomyn and womxn and wimmen and all those other butchered versions of the word women/woman bothered me well before I even realized I was a radfem/GC.Its probably one of those earlier ways I felt apart from the libfems I knew.There have been several threads in this subreddit about what radfems think about terms like womxn or womyn and the response has been overwhelmingly negative.  Like you said, GC feminists seem to agree that we are women, we always have been women and we do not appreciate liberal feminists playing word games or redefining what woman has always meant.  Our womanhood is directly linked to our oppression and our inheritance of thousands of years of oppression.I see this often, especially with my ethnicity (well half anyway),  Latinx Nope, nope, and nope.We are being erased and told how to identify, sadly, too many women are buying into this nonsense.LatinXX.WomXXn.Kind of kidding.Also, womyn and wimmin and womon are not a butchered or lib fem versions of women or woman.  Their origins are in radical lesbian feminism, i.e., taking the men of women.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.One of the first suggestions is to get the girl a binder. She's 13. Does that really sound healthy?It sounds like now she's getting double the toxic messages: Mom is saying "you have to be a girlie girl" and friend's mom is saying "You're a boy, let's get you boy's swimming trunks!" (And being surprised that the kid was embarrassed; no shit, how many 13 year old girls want to swim topless in front of people.) Not one person is saying "You're fine the way you are."This. This is what astounds me. Why does everyone play into this nonsense? Just let people like what they like and dress how they want without making everything about being a boy and being a girl.I have friends who went to school in very progressive neighbourhoods, and so of course, they know WAY more people who identify as trans/asexual/etc. than I do (no social contagion here folks!!). They have said to me its better to let teens/children go on blockers and to buy them binders, etc. than for them to deal with it by themselves and harm their bodies. Puberty blockers are reversible anyways, if they change their minds one day.WTF???? Blockers are NOT fucking reversible and binders and all that should not be promoted. This is insanity. Why do we go to putting physical bandaids on these illnesses instead of giving children/teens the therapy that they need?They have said to me "Puberty blockers are reversible anyways, if they change their minds one day."Tell your friends that evidence suggests puberty blockers reduce IQ about ten points.Will definitely try to bring that up the next time this subject resurfaces. Thank you!Makes you wonder how enthusiastically the mother has pushed the non-binary identity on her own child.If a 13 year old girl wanted breast implants because she hated her chest size, by and large the answer would be a giant no. Why is the opposite okay? I dont get how people can convince themselves that telling 13 year old girls their body is somehow wrong is okay. I wish someone could legitimately help this child.Never comes up does it.The OP asking how to "help" this poor, unfortunate "trans boy" be "himself" just so happens to have a non-binary child of her own. What a curious coincidence. ROGD in their social group, or mom pushing trans nonsense on her kid? Or both?This person is looking for brownie points. They want to look so progressive that they're willing to mess with a child.And not just their own kid but someone else's.If, as someone further up thread suggested, she was supporting this girl to have breast implants behind her mother's back no one would be supporting it and nor would she be virtue signalling for back pats.I'm kinda glad that kid has a supportive adult in their life, regardless of how that kid identifies as she grows up. Seems she is GNC, with a very unsupportive and hostile mother.  That's gotta be awfulI read it as an enabler.Not supportive.Enabling the kid to do what?  Wear what she wants and not the girly, pink clothes her mom is forcing on her?The woman posting is posting to virtue signal, she's already Munchausen by proxy enabled her own kid to "non binary" themselves and now she's going to push the same ideology onto another kid who might be rebelling against a religious family rather than anything else.Might be rebelling against an asshole mom.  Also might be thats shes gay and gnc, or might actually truly thinks shes trans.  Dunno.  At 13 the kid might not know either.  I dont see how having an adult who is not doing much more than saying "i accept you for who you are" in her life is a terrible thing.This kid fits the pattern of little girls who are being force-fed the most awful, misogynistic aspects of womanhood and see an escape in identifying as trans.But that's not the main issue here. The bigger concern is the ~Nice Affirming OP stepping in and getting this girl into trouble. They "deadname" the kid in front of her conservative parents? They buy the kid a swimsuit? Or, god forbid, they buy the kid a binder (i.e. underwear, given to a minor by an adult)? Yeah, that puts the child in danger of being sent to a Christian education camp, which has lots in common with a prison.(I'm using 'they' for OP because I couldn't determine who was writing the post, just to be clear.)  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.How much yall want to bet its run like pimps just like the organization that started international sex workers day?  APROSEX is a member of the Global Network of Sex Work Projects,  an ex-VP of which is literally in prison in Mexico for sex trafficking.  Nearly all non profits pushing "sex as labor" ideology are members of this parent org.So there's nothing to bet on: it's a certainty that "managers" have their hands in the cookie jar.  Governments would like to get theirs in it too, the better to capitalize on transactionalized sexual abuse, since it's uhh very lucrative.You'd think the "progressives" and "leftists" supporting this stuff would connect the fucking dots but nah.sounds like they're setting them up to "consent" to whatever happens to them, "you were warned" defense.Sickening  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Teenage girls aren't representative of women.  I hope you know that on some level.  I'm sorry you were bullied.  That can be pretty difficult to deal with, even years later.It sounds like you've got a pretty interesting sister.  Do you think she's as vapid and materialistic as you view other women as being?  What is your relationship with her now?Fitness is a great hobby but what is your goal?  Do you want to be physically fit so that you can harm people?  Strength is a great attribute to have, but it isn't the only measure of a person's abilities.  Men are physically stronger for short bursts than women, but women have a greater aptitude for repetitive motion exercises.  Women also are better suited to surviving in challenging conditions such as low temperatures, famines, and illness.  Your idea of strength is limited.Do you think that the women on this subreddit are vapid and materialistic?  How do you think your image of women as vapid and materialistic shapes your behaviors toward them?  All of women haven't formed an opinion on you, nor do they fit your preconceived notions.  If you want to deal with your internalized misogyny, the first step is to challenge your own perceptions.It sounds like you've got a pretty interesting sister. Do you think she's as vapid and materialistic as you view other women as being? What is your relationship with her now?My relationship with her is great,She's a feminist in the most basic sense,she's a lesbian while also being a devout catholic(thats a topic I avoid all together with her )Fitness is a great hobby but what is your goal? Do you want to be physically fit so that you can harm people? Strength is a great attribute to have, but it isn't the only measure of a person's abilities. Men are physically stronger for short bursts than women, but women have a greater aptitude for repetitive motion exercises. Women also are better suited to surviving in challenging conditions such as low temperatures, famines, and illness. Your idea of strength is limited.I just wanted to know what it felt like to be strong,someone who could never be a victim, in societyNo such thing as never being a victim. Look at Terry Crews. A kind but very strong and physically intimidating man. He was groped by a white man at a party and ridiculed (by other black men, no less) for coming forward about the sexual assault. People asked him all the same things they ask women: why didn't you fight back, why didn't you hit him, why did you take so long to come forward, why can't you just get over it?Anyone could be victimized by someone out there. That's just the harsh reality: there is always someone who is smarter than you, stronger than you, more clever than you & perhaps all three at once.Women are not vapid or superficial as a group. Perhaps you are setting your sights on a certain "type" of woman because you don't feel like more interesting women would be interested in YOU?It sounds like you have some issues to work out. I'd seek out a feminist therapist- someone who can help you work out some of these toxic feelings with.I can relate to the OP's feelings in terms of making female friends- when you're a young woman, and not into performing femininity or talking about certain hobbies / topics it can be hard to find your own crowd. I now have a few female friends that I can count on and share interests with- but a few years ago, it was difficult dealing with being alone. 90% of women that I encountered weren't interested in anything outside of the core few hobbies they had; mainly make-up culture, discussing tv shows, taking shopping trips and learning about fashion, etc.It's not a woman-specific issue, and isn't internalized misogyny either, unless the majority of the young women in your city are uninterested in these things? Most men are the same- they are into sports, video games, or going out to drink beer and party- so I focused on finding male friends who like literature, hiking, etc instead. But it's hard to find those.I can't speak to what the majority of women in my city are interested in but it hasn't been at all difficult to find female (and male) peers who share my interests.I have to disagree that the pervasive idea about women being internalized misogyny: these are tropes about women that have been recycled over & over for years. That we are silly, fickle, vindictive, catty, etc.If you don't mind me asking, what kind of interests do you have? I'm into hiking, wall-climbing, programming, reading (historical fiction or detective novels), DIY projects, etc. I know a lot of women who like those things, but most of them aren't really interested in them / don't want to do any of these activities.Oh. I read it differently- I think OP was specifically talking about the few women that she'd met and didn't get along with. I have met plenty of women who aren't catty or fickle, but I have met quite a few who are materialistic and overly focused on appearance etc. I think the OP is meeting a lot more of that last group.I relate to some of this, the delusions of being more equal to men, physically. The dawning realization at how wrong that is, and how my perceptions of women were also wrong,  namely that they were superficial (not like other girls syndrome, where you think you are different just for having thoughts, hobbies, and interests, as if other women dont have those things). The reality is though, that I dont find value in small talk, it is superficial. Women engage me in small talk more than men do, and men tend to boast or brag or story tell during "small talk" than to ask little routine questions to others. So I had this idea like women aren't interesting, but this is an example of socialization and how we are taught to act. I needed to decouple that idea from actual superficiality and realize that women are socialized to be polite in a certain way, never be boastful or proud, and our stories aren't important so we dont bother people with them. I realize now repeated small talk attempts are trying to break the ice, but it used to frustrate because it feels phony sometimes. Because it probably is, because those women probably dont enjoy the vapid small talk any more than we do. But because it felt phony I wouldn't seek out more connection or convos, and it sort of allowed my internalized misogyny to stay and I could boost myself up by essentially infantalizing other women, who in all fairness likely picked up my not being very receptive and so didnt ever break that "small talk" barrier.  I had just conflated things in an inaccurate but socially acceptable way and now in my 30s find myself seeking out more female friends and connections, being impressed, but not entirely surprised, at the depth and strength of each woman I have made my own effort to get to know.What I would do, and am doing, is reading womens stories and experiences, really dive in and pay attention to what comes up as you go and challenge the old notions you carry. For me, once i realized I was wrong in my POV on other women,  it was almost like something inside loosened up and i could see things with more clarity. It wasn't such a stretch anymore to see the more subtle ways we are kept in line, and how we sometimes do this to each other.  Can't hurt to try but I am terrified of meeting new peopleMe too! Social situations are not my forte, and it takes me a while to get comfortable with anyone. You can also start with the women already around you. I've made a habit of just focusing on and choosing to listen to women at get togethers or wherever, where they might be part of a couple or group telling a story and usually a man takes over as official narrator, I choose eyecontact with the woman so she keeps talking. We have a side convo if the man doesn't stop. I keep doing this and find social conversations more enjoyable now on the whole lol.Do you have access to therapy?  It sounds like you might have some trauma or social anxiety a therapist could help you work through.  It might lessen the struggle of meeting new people.I went to Therapy a little while but I got bored of it and leftIt sounds like you could benefit from it still.  Maybe you weren't feeling adequately challenged, either by yourself or your therapist.  You are dealing with some quality of life issues.  Whether or not you choose to address them is up to you, but therapy is the obvious way forward.  Do you want to tackle your internalized misogyny or anxiety, because either will require effort on your part.Therapy just seems like an inconvenienceThen be honest with yourself.  Either you want to overcome your social anxiety and internalized misogyny or you don't.  There are no shortcuts.I hate small talk too! My way of breaking the ice is sharing something personal about myself. That usually opens up the conversation and makes the other woman feel comfortable sharing as well. Some of the best conversations I have had were with women I had just met. Getting to know them over a course of a single day, and bond, was great! Usually I'd just say 'If you don't mind me asking/if you're comfortable sharing' before more personal questions, so she'd know there was no pressure. My goal in communication is always to make a safe space for women to open up.My neighbour and I have had some deep and very personal discussions, I have "known" her for a year and a half now.  Shamefully..... I don't even know her name hahahaha, but pretty sure she doesn't know mine either.  But yeah, I don't know, I feel like deep and personal discussions with women I barely know is a good thing.  There are certainly women out there who will be untrustworthy, will break trust and betray us, gossip about us and share our secrets.  Of course there is a chance this will happen.  But I think that the more we trust each other, the less we will be betraying each other.  Trust begets trust I guess?  Possibly I am being naive lolMany men are vapid too, but no one comments on it. Think about all the men youve met who talk about nothing except which women they think are hot, football, beer and weed. Why are women who talk about boys, reality tv and shoes considered vapid but not these men? Because of misogyny.Go find some women who share your interests instead of judging women by the worst examples and men by the best examples.As a very petite woman, I completely understand your feelings and realizations on strength. I realized very young that I would never EVER be able to match a man in strength, and I cant even match most other women. Im very short ( Ive met maybe three people in my life who are shorter than me) and most people in a room will have some sort of a physical advantage over me. This made me feel so helpless for a very long time, but I was able to get past it by focusing on the ways that I do have an advantage over people. For instance, Im very agile. While a man might rely on his brute strength I can rely on my ability to bend and twist and leap out of almost any situation (and in my experience, most women are much more agile than men!). Another thing, is animals really like me for some reason. I can always make a friend with any animal that is near by, and Ive noticed that most animals, especially wild ones, tend to prefer women. This is not something that is valued or seen as a strength in our society, but trust me, having a strong relationship with an animal can be so powerful. Animals defend their own, and they will defend you. ( for example, I frequented a park with a lot of squirrels when I was in college, and the squirrels would always come hang out with me on the bench. One day a man came and sat next to me. He was pretty creepy and was making me very uncomfortable, and the squirrels started gathering around him and climbing all over him and scared him off! To this day its one of the craziest things that has happened to me!) Anyway, this is a very long winded way of saying that your strength might not be physical strength. There are so many ways that women are stronger than men, but they are unrecognized by our society because it is defined by men. While I definitely would encourage you to continue working out as that is good for you, I would also suggest that you explore a little bit. There are things that make you strong that you havent realized yet.I just find them so vapid and materialistic and they don't particularly like me eitherI wonder why.Oof first problem is how you view other girls. No one wants to be friends with someone who thinks they are "vapid" like damn way to generalizeI don  t see how any of this is related to internalized misogyny? I also have issues with making female friends because most of the women I met come off as materialistic and vapid to me- that  s because most young people nowadays are materistic and vapid. (It  s always been like that- they  re young, most of us have nothing better to do.) I just find women and men who don  t behave like that, and are more like me.If you want to wear "male" clothes, that isn  t an issue- they  re just articles of clothing. I wear clothing that fits- so mostly female pants because I  m short and have broad hips, and male t-shirts because they fit better and I  m a small cup size. It  s really no problem, and hardly anyone cares. Do as you please.It isn  t true that a male coach potato is stronger than a woman who works out at the gym- that  s ridiculous. If you want to be able to beat people in hand-to-hand combat, you should learn a type of martial arts that focuses on that- e.g. Krav Maga. I don  t understand the focus on physical strength anyway- I  m in STEM and most men aren  t any more capable because they can lift a table or whatever.If you want to feel better about yourself and build confidence- you need to accomplish things that you care to accomplish. If anxiety is a big issue, get medicated! You deserve to live your life, void of having to care so much about how strong some men are or how mean some teenagers used to be to you.it's not true that a male couch potato is stronger than a woman who works out at the gymI have heard stories of tall athletic women being unable to arm wrestle their shorter/less athletic male friends. Women who work out or who are heavier being pinned by their skinny boyfriends who weight 50lbs less than them. Don't spread lies that can get women hurt. Male strength is no fucking joke.There are very few women on this earth that eat and train at the level that would make them a match for an out of shape man with equivalent weight and height. I have seen the strength changes puberty brings in my own family members. Male and female body composition, from bone density down to the muscle fibers, are different. There is a reason sports are sex segregated and not only organized by weight class. I'm not saying women should live in fear of 'getting hurt' but smaller/less visibly muscular men are stronger than women in the same way that a 100lb dog could easily overpower a 150lb human if it wanted to.I don't care if you think it's 'fear mongering', women have the right to know that if a man chooses to be violent with them that it is unlikely they will be able to defend themselves with their bare hands. This should determine who they let into their lives and who they choose to be intimate with. They should know to be careful around men who show even the faintest of violent tendencies because it can get ugly quick.This is independent of how much she works out, so unless you're encouraging women to get on steriods, yes it is false that a very fit woman is stronger than the average man. Maybe she could beat him because she has the training or knows self defense strategies, but we are talking about strength.I have seen the strength changes puberty brings in my own family members. Male and female body composition, from bone density down to the muscle fibers, are different. There is a reason sports are sex segregated and not only organized by weight class. I'm not saying women should live in fear of 'getting hurt' but smaller/less visibly muscular men are stronger than women in the same way that a 100lb dog could easily overpower a 150lb human if it wanted to.I agree with this. Like I said, I am aware of the physical differences between men and women.I don't care if you think it's 'fear mongering', women have the right to know that if a man chooses to be violent with them that it is unlikely they will be able to defend themselves with their bare hands. This should determine who they let into their lives and who they choose to be intimate with. They should know to be careful around men who show even the faintest of violent tendencies because it can get ugly quick.I agree with this as well. Youve missed the point I was trying to make- if OP wants to feel safer in her own skin, she should maximize the stength she can have. If you take Krav Maga lessons, you also learn to be more confident and calmer in the face of adversity. OP isn't asking "how do I defeat all men in combat?"If some drunk guy at a party stumbles into you and starts grabbing at your chest while laughing, it can be useful to be able to flip him onto his back. That isn't impossible as a woman. Unless I suddenly don't classify as a woman anymore, because I can handle fighting certain men lmao.This is independent of how much she works out, so unless you're encouraging women to get on steriods, yes it is false that a very fit woman is stronger than the average man. Maybe she could beat him because she has the training or knows self defense strategies, but we are talking about strength.How is telling someone to learn martial arts so they can feel better about themselves and are more capable of protecting themselves the same thing as saying she should take steroids. Are you a very fit woman yourself? Or is this more anecdotal evidence? I am strong, and I dont use steroids, and can beat most untrained men. Is that something that makes me a non-woman or what?  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.I'd have to do research into what groups backed the changes in the past, I'm afraid I don't have that information off the top of my head, only some of the more recent (past 5 years or so) info.But as to how TQ+ got added, and why LGBT allowed it, you have to go back to the late 90s and the first decade of the 2000s.Third-wave feminism joined forces with the LGBT mantras of "acceptance" and "inclusion" and "hearts not parts", although LGB still had a ways to go to reach "born this way" levels. All of it, even feminism, was becoming more mainstream and acceptable on a social level, because technology and the internet was exploding so messages were reaching the masses for the first time. T was accepted as a part of LGBT because no one believed you were actually changing sex. We may not have known gender and sex were different yet, but everyone knew and accepted biology. Back then, there were 2 versions of T:Transsexual: someone who embraced gender-bending and non-conformity for sexual pleasure or fetish purposes. Rarely, it could also be someone who presented in clubs or LGB gatherings as the opposite sex, but remained their biological sex otherwise.Trans (without "gender" or "sexual"): someone who wanted to live life permanently presenting as the opposite sex. They had surgery when affordable, and otherwise did everything they could cosmetically to appear as the opposite sex.The trans people I knew back then were male, usually gay but every now-and-again bi. So they were already part of the LGB community, and expressing a preference for sexual activities or outward expression. Gay men in social scenes often referred to each other using female-associated terms, so "she" and the like were normal, but it also didn't matter if someone said "he" because everyone knew they were male. Even the trans person would say it about themselves.Q became a part of it slowly, as "queer" was reclaimed by some in the LGB community. It was taking back the slur and owning it as a different way of expressing they were homosexual, sort of like an identity. It was reserved strictly for gay men and lesbians. As the early 2000s rolled on and became the teens, both Q and T goalposts moved. By then those letters were already so enmeshed in LGB that the change in meaning either wasn't or couldn't be fought against. And since then, the alphabet soup was born.I personally believe the change was due to a saturation of young (teens to 20s) hetero people claiming the letters to feel a part of a community they were different from but desperately wanted to be accepted by. "Fag-hags" and the men who want to be with them are the first that come to mind as Q. But someone who was active in the community in the teens can speak better about it - I bailed in the mid-to-late 2000s when I noticed discrimination and misogyny among the community.Thank you for the detailed reply. My experience was very similar with yours. I was involved in many LGB groups when younger and drifted as life got in the way. In my early 30s I came across a lot of the debates on tumblr and was confused by what I was seeing and tried to find the sources of this new mindset without much luck. My experience with feminism was reading a lot from second wave voices (late 70s-early 90s) much of it spiritual, so I never knew much of third or fourth wave ideals.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Text:Its a common complaint these days that people find themselves politically homeless  usually because of Brexit. But its also something that is happening to feminists. The Right is starting to look a far more appealing place for women than the Left, who have screwed this up all by themselves  just like they have with the formerly loyal and now lost Jewish vote  for their own psychologically murky reasons.Last year 300 women resigned from the Labour Party because it allows female-identifying men to stand on all-women shortlists. Previously, we saw the grotesque spectacle of Corbyns Labour Party holding sex-segregated election rallies in constituencies with high Muslim populations.This fits in with the broader masculinist culture of Corbyns party  Brocialism, defined by the website Urban Dictionary as the political, social, and economic ideology of those who claim to have Socialist or Communist leanings, but whose behaviour or beliefs are hypocritically sexist.Theres something weird about calling a 70-year-old who resembles Old Man Steptoe The Absolute Boy as though hes some sort of superannuated scamp thwarting the attempts of bossy females  Stupid woman!  to control him. And who has promoted highest, of the few females in his Shadow Cabinet, a woman he used to have sex with and who is not  through no fault of her own  up to this demanding job.While Diane Abbott may accuse Question Time of legitimising the abuse she has received since last appearing on it, Labour women who have resisted the Corbyn cult such as Jess Phillips have admitted that the abuse they get from their alleged allies is far worse than it has ever been from their Conservative opponents. Angela Eagle was shocked to get homophobic hatred from Corbynites whereas the Tories adore Ruth Davidson.And theres the little matter of the Conservatives having had two female leaders while Labour repeatedly promotes inferior men to the post.When did it become an article of faith that feminism belongs with the Left anyway? The suffragettes, after all, had a great deal of crossover with the Womens Christian Temperance Union.Mrs Pankhurst  a Tory, whose feminism and temperance was informed by her work as a social worker in the East End seeing the awful effects of male drunkenness on wives and children  was keen on the slogan Votes For Women And Chastity For Men. As most things did  drugs, hair, the Beatles  feminism appears to have lost its way in the late Sixties and early Seventies when it was conflated with other struggles.A generation of females who were warned by Black Panther Stokely Carmichael in 1966 that the only position for women in the struggle is prone should not have been surprised that the IRA hid a rape culture  as the Republican Mira Cahill finally revealed last year  or that Sandinista hero Daniel Ortega allegedly raped his teenage stepdaughter while claiming it was her revolutionary duty. (A court case was brought but fell beyond the statute of limitations.)As the ongoing revelations about the multitudes of rapacious males working in the humanitarian sector shows, its all too common for men whove ticked the Brotherhood Of Man box on the spiritual census to believe that this gives them carte blanche to behave like utter creeps towards women.If socialists can get into bed with these dubious allies, why not feminists with the Conservative US think-tank the Heritage Foundation, as the charismatic Posie Parker (a scourge of the trans activists) and her girl-gang did on a recent trip to Washington?Clinging to a belief system which repeatedly downgrades you is masochistic madness. If the personal is political, why are we expected to leave abusive personal relationships yet stay in abusive political alliances? Women  so long the put-upon jam-tomorrow handmaids of the Left  have had enough; when the facts  and the friends  change, so must feminism.That is nowhere near as scathingly funny as Id expect from Julie Burchill. It doesnt even read like her style! I guess the Telegraph editors were heavy-handed.She makes a fair point. I dont want to ally with the right, but the misogyny on the left is nearly as bad.The political compass needs shaking up. The current system serves no one and especially not women.Posie Parker doesn't represent me or radical feminism. Feminism is incompatible with the right-wing which is inherently patriarchal and with fucking Christianity. Posie Parker being chummy with the Heritage Foundation is a fucking embarrassment. Why not go have a pint with the DUP whilst we're at it?At least she's doing something and people are listening. The left isn't giving any of us a platform. I stand with Posie.I feel like I have no fucking choice at this point. The Left GETS US ARRESTED BY POLICE OUT OF SPITE. They expose us to cop brutality and harassment (they do rape and molest women) while banging on about restorative justice. They get us fired from our jobs, dox us, all that shit. If right wingers are willing to listen, I'm willing to speak. They may come out with better info about what patriarchy is and isn't, along with abortion.My right to speak has already been curbed. I'm not going to shut up anywhere I don't have to.Not in a thousand years would you catch me voting Tory, but Labour and the Lib Dems arent giving me any motivation to vote for them either. Politically, Im toast right now.All I ever wanted was a nice middle of the road democratic socialist whod keep us in the EU and support womens rights - but my parents always warned me about having unrealistic expectation.Articles like these make me wonder if a push to build an international feminist party is viable, especially if we're going to keep radical feminism at the core.The Right is starting to look a far more appealing place for women than the Left, who have screwed this up all by themselvesNever.I'd rather form a new party.The Right in the USA has destroyed so many safety nets.  The Right is starting to look a far more appealing place for women than the Left,Never. Not practically or morally. I will remain a socialist for my whole life. We must stop the left from this. Any suggestion that we hook the rightwing is absurdYes, the solution is for all of us socialists to make it clear that gender ideology is a combination of regressive patriarchal gender enforcement and neoliberal individualist bs and we is contradicted by material analysis.Can you paste the text? I love it when Julie Burchill goes on the attack.Seconded!I don't understand how feminists can have loyalty to Corbyn. Is it because he's left-wing? Corbyn =/= the left.The left in Labour are the more small c convervative section when it comes to tradition. They look to the past. A preference for male leaders and a male-centred view is related to this. Brocialism is a weirdly backward-looking phenomenon.This means that stalwarts like Corbyn don't know what to do when it comes to gender issues. They didn't have to think about this in 1983, and they cba thinking about it now. So they listen to TRAs over women because men.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.I noticed that once I started hanging out with the college atheletes a lot of them were dateable lesbians and inherently "TERFs" in their beliefs even if they dont realize it.You're not the only one having this problem, and honestly, I ask myself the same questions everyday.I personally try not to talk about my views until I'm sure that the people around me are safe and have enough common sense not to yell "TERF". "Pretending to be a potted plant", as my mom puts it. Drop questions here and there, to assess the situation, that kind of thing.Idk if it'd last long on here, and I'm no good at moderation, but I love the idea of a radfem dating subreddit for women interested in women! (A private one of course)Try a sport or another hobby that is not about being LGBT. I'm not in college but I am that age, and I've made most of my friends from being involved in activities that are not based on any identity traits.I never joined them for that reason, I made friends although I wouldn't dare trying to date these people though. Not wanna make fool of myselfI have the exact same problem. Year after year everyone in the lgbt club puts on a full show of believing in special gender labels. I'm also around art people a lot and even if they're not same-sex attracted they often have a special label for themselves.I don't really have an answer except find someone who doesn't talk about it all the time. Then it's easier to hide your own opinions about it at least.Well, not everyone who goes to the LGBT club is into trans rights, labels and special feels. I met my girlfriend there and, although she's not full radfem, she still thinks that all the gender stuff is getting ridiculous. Life happens and the both of us found better things to do than going there, but if I was single and looking for someone I'd still give it a tryMy sister's sporty and has an endless stream of girlfriends.Be aware that many women might just be playing along. If you watch carefully, maybe be you can tell whos a full-throated trans women are women type or of another unsavory type (e.g,, women with a special label who are simply heterosexual). I work on a college campus, there are plenty of women who are a special kind of straight, but many who are just regular ol lesbians, but you wouldnt necessarily know unless you got to know them better.Yep, this is me. Of course I respect pronouns of others and I never speak ill of the whole thing, but underneath all of that I am highly critical of gender ideology. Very few people know that about me though  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.  It was probably the Huffington Post?https://m.huffpost.com/us/entry/us_4169651?guccounter=1The article says that both women and men use indirect relational aggression but women are more likely to suffer severe consequences.https://www.researchgate.net/publication/7677457_An_Integrated_Review_of_Indirect_Relational_and_Social_AggressionThis one is an actual study and mentions different types of aggressions.  I think these might be what you're looking for.The study: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/AB.21563An article with a Q&A with the author: https://www.macleans.ca/society/qa-are-boys-even-more-mean-than-mean-girls/Author of a study on relational aggression, found boys use tactics such as rumours and social exclusion to hurt others more often than their female counterpartsThe complexities involves in FtM pregnancy (especially with regards to hormones) mean that very few FtMs actually get pregnant.  Let alone how many of them want to be pregnant.  I know plenty of FtMs and none of them have any desire to have offspring.  I never understood why, if there's so much dysphoria to begin with, an FtM would do the one thing that symbolizes womanhood more than anything.  Being able to simply change genders but still having the ability to remain pregnant tells you that...well...you still might be female?  All this pregnant FtM thing does is undermine the woman's struggle for reproductive rights by erasing the unique biological experience, and enable MtFs who pretend to care about these women for five minutes.Also, which bathroom does a pregnant FtM use?  Still want to be one of the guys?I do know a couple of self ID FTMs who've been pregnant. It's not uncommon at all. T can be interrupted. And most self ID FTMs in the world aren't on T.The main thing that characterizes ever single FTM individual that I have ever met is that they are super people pleasing. The world likes men more than women? No problem! I'll be one! The world wants female people to have babies? No problem! I'll get on that right now!Despite the fact that most FTMs report being interested in stereotypically male professions, an overwhelming number of FTMS work in the service industry. Again: Compulsive people pleasing.But in one case I know of, I strongly suspect that the decision to get pregnant was in part a way to justify delaying T. I know that many FTMs are secretly existentially terrified of actually going on T. Getting pregnant is an out: "Oh. I really really want to go on T. I'd do it this moment. But I want a biological child. So I have to do that first."How do I know this? Because I've heard it first hand from detransitioned women, including women who claimed, when they went on T, that they couldn't wait another minute. In many cases that "I can't wait another minute" is really a desire for the existential dread to end. To just get it over with. Like a death row victim wanting to move up their execution date.The main thing that characterizes ever single FTM individual that I have ever met is that they are super people pleasing. The world likes men more than women? No problem! I'll be one!Wow. You can add my FtM teenage stepdaughter to that list  thats always been one of her defining personality characteristics, shes a people pleaser. Interesting insight. She gets a lot more positive social feedback for being a trans boy than she ever got is a lesbian girl thats for certain.She gets a lot more positive social feedback for being a trans boy than she ever got is a lesbian girl thats for certain.I hope she hasn't started medicalization yet. One of the worst things is seeing people post surgery, in pain, being "good patients." See every FTM post mastectomy video on youtube just about ever. If the misogyny of this movement weren't bad enough, I think that the normalization of pain is one of the most surreal things I've ever seen.The main thing that characterizes ever single FTM individual that I have ever met is that they are super people pleasing. The world likes men more than women? No problem! I'll be one! The world wants female people to have babies? No problem! I'll get on that right now!That's something I noticed when I identified as a man, that so many FTMs exhibited so much female socialization. Which, yes, all girls absorb to one degree or another, but that behaviorally, I saw so much stereotypical feminine behaviors even in women who were genuinely non-conforming from early on (not even talking about those who wear dresses and make-up but want you to call them Phil). Then again, anyone with a lick of sense and a dgaf approach to social approval would not last long in the queer community. I sure as hell didn't.That's interesting.  Maybe it's just the circles I'm in...may also be my age lolDamn...those poor women. Ive only met one TiF, a very young woman in her early 20s,shes had top surgery only and doesnt take hormones. I only knew her briefly and very casually, so never got into a deep discussion. Shes also a cutter, so theres a lot going on with her. Forget identity; let's talk biology. The only people who need access to abortion are females.This is so backward. Instead of neutralizing our language and erasing the biological reality that only female humans can get pregnant, we should be reminding TIFs that they need female-specific health care and if they retain their reproductive organs, yes, they can get pregnant. Because they may "identify" as men and present in a masculine manner but they are still FEMALE. I remember posters from the sexual health clinic I used to visit in my twenties explaining this pretty clearly - i.e., you still need regular Pap test and other gynaecological care, even if you identify as trans. Those posters were intended to educate people to keep them healthy and safe. It disturbs me that this would now be considered transphobic.FFS, can we maybe focus on actually achieving and securing reproductive freedom before we worry about "queering" it? i have to get off my phone when i see things like thisNo, they just can't bear it when they don't have access to something women doTIMs are men. Men don't get pregnant. But they want to control women that do, this is Orwellian. It makes women incubators, and is a man's rights argument. Once women get pregnant from rape, the 'rapist-father' can stop abortion or a child free woman that gets pregnant can be forced to carry to term.They want TIMs to be recognized as 'having periods' too. This has already gone too far.Nah, it's about women who transition. The whole period thing in that school was about them too... at least I hope lol  Please don't legitimise these fantasists by using their language.  No one can "transition" from one sex to another.edit: spellingI guess my response would be "...so what?"How about just doing some actual advocacy work?Why make this confusing? Gender identities don't have babies, sexed bodies do.This is insulting.In America, the right is constantly trying to take away women's access to healthcare, and that doesn't just mean abortion. The Trump administration is trying to make preventative care harder to obtain, the Supreme Court only narrowly voted to block Louisiana's near-total ban, with Kavanaugh opining in his dissent that he wanted to watch the law make women suffer before reaching a decision. Roe v Wade being overturned this year is a real, frightening possibility. Sure, it won't criminalize abortion in states where the governor's office and legislature are liberal-controlled, but that leaves the majority of the country at risk.Women are second-class citizens when it comes to most aspects of American life, women are often dismissed by doctor's when they discuss health concerns. A young woman's life-threatening brain tumor was dismissed as "stress" until it nearly killed her.Stop using language that erases 50% of the people on the planet. That is straight-up Orwellian.I've always found it difficult to understand how a woman can claim gender dysphoria, that they are really men inside, then go and get pregnant. Shouldn't that be the last thing they want? Wouldn't that cause catastrophic dysphoria? Why claim you're a man then go off and fufill an unbelievably womanly role?This is just stupid and insane.If only there was a word for people that have vaginas.... hmmm maybe "female"? Nah too "TERFY". Let's just call them people with vaginas. Words having meanings is kinda bigoted after all.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.It's because TRA leaders and movers are upper middle class white heterosexual men and there's not much that can't be accomplished when that particular social group wants something. This sub wouldn't exist if TIMs were still mostly homosexual transsexuals from poor backgrounds.  Yes, I agree. But I'm wondering if it can't be both.Well, I've considered that some TRAs are actually plants meant to destroy the left, so... yeah, I think this is part of it. ... Mostly  I think of it as a "perfect storm," where a lot of different purposes are being served and people are drawn in for a lot of different reasons.Frankly at least the US gov knows it can operate with impunity in nearly every way so I doubt they would put much effort into pushing this topic. I personally believe there are financial interests involved leading the charge on the trans lobby.Fun fact- if you look at photos of YPG fighters in North Syria, they often wear scarves in their head and they do it with the expressed desire of showing solidarity with women who are forced to do the same. Thats because north Syria/Rojava is part of an anarcho feminist project that emphasizes equality for women. Ive seen many men in that movement wear flowered scarves in their heads. You can probably google male YPG and wearing scarf and find images of this.Yep, when I see mainstream muslim men start wearing hijabs, then I'll be supportive of women wearing them from a feminist perspective. That's super cool about the anarcho feminist project though--thanks for informing us!Men in Iran have been wearing hijab in solidarity with women.The Hijab and Burqa are some horrific outward signs of oppression.And it's disingenuous and counterproductive for the left to pretend otherwise. Centrist people are turned away from the left, because a subset of the left tells them their instinct to be disturbed when they see women in forced covering (particularly burqa) is racist.It's worse because it's legally mandated in several countries.No one's getting murdered, imprisoned or having acid thrown in her face for not wearing sexy clothing in the West.  The idea that there is extra clothing women have to wear that men don't is almost universalAs a woman who's lived in several different countries, this is news to me. If anything, I can wear less than men on some occasions - like on a hot day, women in the office can wear sandals and skirts, while men have to wear long-sleeved shirts, shoes and long pants... The bikini top is about the only thing I can think of, and it does piss me off, yeah.there's nothing instrinsically worse about a headscarf than similarly inconvenient items of clothing.Maybe go to the ex-muslim subreddit and read all the posts by (often Western-born) girls who are forced by their families to wear the hijab and are dying to take it off, to not have their ears covered at all times, feel the wind in their hair, to try different hairstyles... Or check out the hashtag #freefromhijab and #whitewednesdays on twitter, where women from muslim countries risk their lives and freedom, taking their hijab in public and posting pictures online knowing some of them will probably be arrested. Go and tell them they're overreacting and there's not much difference between the scarf they're forced to wear at all times (and sometimes get screamed at and threatened by strangers on the street if there's some hair peeking out from under the scarf) and your "high-cut top".If the bikini top pisses you off, why aren't you refusing to wear it?Well I never wear bikinis in general as I don't go to the beach or pool, I wasn't talking about myself but about the laws around the world. Not sure what your assumption that I'm not refusing to wear it is based on... Being topless is actually perfectly legal where I live. What's your point?True, I was assuming that if you did go to the pool you would choose not to go topless. Shouldn't have done that, sorry!Oh, I wouldn't go topless lol, unless far away from home... maybe. Doesn't mean the laws make sense to me, plenty of women dgaf and should be allowed to go topless just like men are.Women are not put to death by stoning if they do not wear long skirts and high cut tops.If you really thought this was about being put to death by stoning, you wouldn't be encouraging women to take off their hijab and risk death by stoning.What!? I didn't encourage anyone to do anything. LOLYou compared the hijab to wearing skirts and high cut tops. I pointed out that it's a false equivalency because women get stoned to death for not following the dictated rules for how to dress and therefore must wear the hijab. No such threat exists for women who don't wear skirts and high cut tops. Where was I encouraging women to take off their hijab?The OP was encouraging women not to wear hijab. The false equivalency is in comparing stoning with what the OP is talking about. Her post rests on the assumption that there are women who can decide whether or not they're going to wear a veil. Otherwise there wouldn't even be a debate about it being a choice. She's not talking to the women who are living under the control of the Taliban, she's talking to the women who live in relatively free countries. A woman in the US, Europe, or even Bangladesh (where Taslima Nasrin is from) is operating in a different context. She's not going to get stoned if she doesn't wear a headcovering.The Shabaab banned bras in Somalia and whipped women found wearing them. That had no bearing on what it meant to wear a bra in the US. Similarly, the meaning of the hijab in the US is closer to to the meaning of long skirts or head coverings in Orthodox Christian, Orthodox Jewish, and other conservative subcultures.I made it clear that I was not talking about the niqab or the burka. I have worn high heels before on rare and uncomfortable occasions, and I've worn a scarf wrapped around my head to keep warm on cold days. The latter is cumbersome, the former is horrible. I'd choose the scarf over the heels in a heartbeat.  "Whatever anti-women bullshit you learned, unlearn it now". Fucking preach itTheres a person in one of my leftist feminist groups who is a white trans woman who converted to Islam and wears the hijab willingly.  I find it odd.  Went from a white, Canadian, atheist, straight man to a white, Canadian, Muslim, lesbian, trans woman very quickly. I mean people can convert to whatever they want, idc, but it was one of the biggest whiplash conversions Ive seen., but it was one of the biggest whiplash conversions Ive seen.Hold my beer!There was a Neo Nazi who converted to Islam, then murdered his roommates when they "disrespected" his new religious beliefs.People are so very strange.Ok yeah thats a bigger 180 A lot of converts behave this way.  They become the most devout person in the house of worship.As to the niqab, we had a kerfuffle about that in Canada and the leader of the NDP (then, Thomas Mulcair) decided to play oppositional politics instead of defending women.  When then-PM Harper came out against the niqab, Mulcair came out in favour, saying it was a matter of choice.  The cultural ignorance and stupidity encompassed in that stance enraged me.  I was a member of the Young New Democrats at 14 and remained a New Democrat for 40 years, even serving as an assistant to a member of the provincial legislature.  But this sheer stupidity on the part of Mulcair was so disgusting to me, I couldn't support it.  To compound it, the provincial party has a transgender Vice-President (the infamous, litigious and TERF-slurring asshole, Morgane Oger).  The party is very fond of message-boxing members of the party, elected members and anyone connected at the administrative level, but her obnoxious behavior goes unremarked.  They've yet to respond to an open letter from Feminist Current, asking that Oger be censured.  A minister where I live recently spoke out about this and even though everyone is angry at her she's standing her ground!https://montrealgazette.com/news/quebec/quebec-minister-for-women-stands-by-belief-that-hijabs-are-oppressive  This promoting hijab in the West bullshit has backfired and will continue to do so... although I've read about a Texas school that had little girls put on a hijab for World hijab day (last week) to encourage them to be open-minded about a different culture or some bs like that, what a fucking jokeSaudi Ex-Muslim: 'World Hijab Day insults millions of women'https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rinrVlrQ4g0Holy fuck I would be down there so damn fast if this was my kids school. Jfc.Was it the same teacher who had the black girl put on a slave collar when they were talking about slavery in early America?What the fuck?! Tell me you're joking, please!https://boston.cbslocal.com/2017/10/19/black-girl-on-leash-photo-bridgewater-plimoth-plantation/Not joking, but i did fuck up the context.  They put her on a leash because puritans...?  My brain remembered it as a lesson about slavery probably because thats exactly wtf it looks like.Yup. If humans were born into egalitarian society and could wear whatever they want, no one would choose burqa (unless perhaps it was freezing cold out and you were trying to protect from the elements). Its a very unnatural type of clothing and seems uncomfortable in warm climates.Exactly.  Even if women "choose" to wear the niqab or burka, choices don't exist in a vacuum.I have a friend who converted to Islam (not for a partner, of her own volition) who eventually chose to cover. She 100 percent does not have to cover.  She feels it is an outward sign of how important her faith is to her.It's the women who come from places where they are forced to cover who have the most issues with it.And to be fair if you scratch some of those places you get historical incidences of women who had spent their whole lives living in segregated spaces and only ever going out of them veiled, being FORCED to unveil and having their veils torn off them in public. That happened in Iran. There are some very powerful and disturbing photos of Algerian women forced to reveal their faces by French military. Zip forward a few years and you get religious fundamentalism, spearheaded by men who might well be the sons of those very women who remember their mothers being insulted and hurt. It's just a horrible carousel of oppressions (gosh and who is at the centre of them hmmm who gets harmed every time hmmmm)Being forced to do anything against your will is the problem. Forcing people to do anything is the problem. Women  bear the brunt of it regardless.Ive heard (and I very well could be wrong) that it does not say anywhere in the Koran that women must cover their head and/or faces. It reminds me of growing up southern baptist as a little girl and being told women must wear dresses. I asked wear does God command that? I was shown bible verses that talk about women not appearing as men or something along those lines. I was so confused. Is a dress really the only thing keeping that distinction separate? Also didnt the ancient Christians have death as a punishment for not going to worship? Why are we listening to them?!? Lol stuff I thought about while I was sitting in service as a child.Yeah, it doesn't. It just says both sexes should be modest and that women in particular should cover their bosoms. END OF.Mohammed eventually instructed his wives to wear veils (which were marks of upperclassness at the time also) so people would stop going "oh hai I see you're one of the prophet's wives can you ask him to do this thing for me". In other words for them not to be hassled. But over time it became cool for all Muslim women to veil ... and it also unfortunately falls to male imams to interpret what "modest" means. Which is why some Muslimas will not veil, some will just wear a scarf, and others wouldn't step outside the door without a niqab and gloves and the whole nine yards. It's tied up with cultural conventions too of course - Muslims are not the only people who historically wear veiling or other "cover".so people would stop going "oh hai I see you're one of the prophet's wives can you ask him to do this thing for me". In other words for them not to be hassledGot a source for this? This is not how most people I've read talking about this understand this line, not at all.O Prophet, tell your wives and your daughters and the women of the believers to bring down over themselves [part] of their outer garments. That is more suitable that they will be known and not be abused. And ever is Allah Forgiving and Merciful.To me it's pretty clear what kind of abuse we're talking about here.  It seems there's no actual Muslims commenting here so I'll explain from a Muslim POV. Muslims follow the Qur'an and hadith, a lot of the core things which Muslim do, e.g. pray five times a day and know how those prayers are done, come from the hadith. The hadith are the sayings and actions from the prophet Muhammad and first generation of Muslims so you can actually see they understood/interpreted the Qur'an. The Qur'an instructs women to wear a khimar, you can check what this item of clothing looks like on google images. It is also verified using hadith how women interpreted this verse and it's clear they understood it to cover their hair and bosom.Some Muslim women also believe the entire face should be covered or it is better to do so under some circumstances. This is so far a minority view in Islamic theology. It should be noted that when the hijab is mentioned in Islamic text, it is also similarly mentioned that men should avert their gaze from women to avoid lusting over them, that's not a woman's responsibility to enforce - men are commanded to do this. If they're not doing this and having lustful thoughts and that's resulting in them sexually assaulting women, that's their guilt alone.I'm aware of everything you wrote. That's theory. What it looks like in practice is that you have entire countries where women are forced to cover up and face harsh punishments if they disobey, while men do whatever the fuck they want - kinda tends to happen when you tell half the population that the word of god is the other half is deficient in intelligence, worth half as much as them, and needs to be obedient to them and can be beaten into submission if they fear their arrogance. Not even observe it... just fear it. All in the quran and the hadith as well, as you probably know.That's not true either, they are some households of course where every female is a hijabi or niqabi and there's strong pressure to adhere to such codes. There's only two places where the hijab is enforced: Iran and Taliban-ruled Afghanistan. It was enforced in Saudi Arabia until recently when MbS stripped the religious police of their authority to do this. In practice, across the Muslim world families are a mix of hijabis and non-hijabis and there's cyclical waves of the hijab being more prominent (we're currently in one) and it being less popular. In a lot of Western countries, the hijab is more common among younger females than it is among older Muslim women, most older Muslim women in the UK for example don't wear it whereas younger ones do.The cultural thing doesn't run either, in every single Muslim country, the women in the media don't wear hijab, almost every billboard you'll see advertising something will have a non-hijabi female on it, the most famous Muslim women are non-hijabis, the exception is YouTubers where there's actual hijabi personalities. No doubt some individuals may feel an atmosphere of fear stemming from their families who follow Islam in a certain way but I regularly hear white people pretending to know what the atmosphere is like in these countries without knowing a single thing about what it's actually like living there.I'll have a look, but it's one of the hadiths I believe.It's all discussed in Fatema Mernissi's Veil and the Male Elite.one of the prophet's wivesThe fact that this is said so casually & just accepted in so many faiths is deeply upsetting in itself.  All religion is sexist but the ones that feature "prophets" (like Warren Jeffs) who have multiple wives are especially vile.(I can't see the French ripping mourning veils off Catholic women for some reason. )If we completely ban head coverings in a supposed attempt to liberate Muslim women we end up oppressing them further by forcing them never leave their houses. It's such a sad twist.Not if you tie social incentives and make the road easy for these women.In one country (Germany I believe) they have classes specifically for women refugees which  I believe they have to attend (benefits are tied to them so the men have to agree). Anyway said classes are all about providing them with options for independence and access to resources.Incredible how liberals rationalize this barbaric patriarchal religion into some kind of progressive accepting phenomenon.Fuuuuuuccckkkk religious fundamentalism, especially Islam, has never served women and never will.Men do, when they can use it as part of their fetish or to get close to vulnerable women.Exactly, like this guy "UK's first trans Muslim" who wears hijab. In the article, he also says he married a man he met on a dating site and though he never disclosed his trans status to that person, assumes they know about it because "he must have seen my scars" even though he admits they have only seen one another twice after the marriage.https://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/09/04/lucy-vallender-uk-transgender-muslim-woman-territorial-army_n_3868479.htmlYeah, I've seen that happen and it's gross. As if the culture and oppression of brown women don't get fetishised enough.Or when they are trying to be  undercoverAfaik the main function of veils was to distinguish between married high status women (don't rape) from slaves and prostitutes (up for grabs). I feel like this aspect is often neglected when the reasoning for veiling is being discussed and probably why so many men as well as unveiled women feel passionate about the subject. The men married to unveiled women don't like that "their" women who are also "respectable" are marked as up for grabs by bringing veiled women into the mix. (Married women losing their head coverings in Europe is a fairly recent event so I think it's still in the cultural memory.)Lower class muslim women still don't desire to be harassed, attacked, or raped.  The choice is simple, wear a cover or be more likely to get sexually assaulted by random males on the street.  That is hardly a choice at all.  There's nothing "empowering" about forcible coverings beside the fact you have a lower likelihood of getting assaulted in public.Where did you get that from? Sounds interestingThe Veil and the Male Elite, by Fatema MernissiFYI, the reasoning behind hijab is the concept of awrah:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intimate_parts_in_IslamFor men that means between the knee and the navel, for women it means the whole body minus hands and face. :puke:The "revelation" that women must cover themselves is the doing of Mo's friend Umar:'A'isha reported that the wives of Allah's Messenger (may peace be upon him) used to go out in the cover of night when they went to open fields (in the outskirts of Medina) for easing themselves. 'Umar b Khattab used to say: Allah's Messenger, ask your ladies to observe veil, but Allah's Messenger (may peace be upon him) did not do that. So there went out Sauda, daughter of Zarn'a, the wife of Allah's Messenger (may peace be upon him), during one of the nights when it was dark. She was a tall statured lady. 'Umar called her saying: Sauda, we recognise you. (He did this with the hope that the verses pertaining to veil would be revealed.) 'A'isha said: Allah, the Exalted and Glorious, then revealed the verses pertaining to veil.https://wikiislam.net/wiki/Revelation_of_the_Hijab#Umar_bin_Al-Khattab.27s_InvolvementIf you look into Islam it's really obvious how many of those revelations supposedly sent by a god were just moods of the pedo and his followers. Even his child wife commented on it. (All religions have this, but in Islam it's more obvious because of the ahadith recounting it.)How do people respond to the "telling women what to wear is as discriminatory as telling women what not to wear" comments. My go to has been "they've been indoctrinated since birth to wear it and face rape or even murder for not wearing it". Ive been met with " Western feminists have been indoctrinated with makeup or bras since they were born so how is it any different". I always say, well ya, and western feminism is it's own beast,but they're not getting raped/beat/murdered for not wearing makeup or a bra. This never seems to sway the person to my side. Is there a better way to counter that argument? Imo basically men are telling us to be covered vs. Men are trying to pornify us and I just can't find the right wordsIt's different because Western women can forgo bra's and make-up without their husbands, fathers, the government or their religious leaders beating them up/arresting them for it. The physical punishment for not wearing make up or a bra in Western society is almost non-existent compared to the punishment for not wearing headcoverings in Islamic cultures. It is also different because make up and bra's are not a punishment for male predatory behavior, something hijabs are. By wearing a hijab or forcing someone else to wear one, you, as a woman, are accepting a punishment or are punishing a woman for predatory behavior of men. I mean, not wearing a hijab in Saudi-Arabia is not the same as not wearing make-up in Sweden. Maybe that'll sway em?Also, do they think Muslim women don't wear make-up or bra's? Because I wore more make-up as a hijabi then I ever do as a radfem.Thank you for your response. I've said this as my argument and they've said, well that doesn't happen in the west. I've cited honour killings and the fact 40% of women coming to our domestic violence shelters are Muslim and they've just said, those incidents don't say they're because of hijab or burka. Im likely just trying to enlighten idiots is what I've come up with.Western women can forgo bra's and make-up without their husbands, fathers, the government or their religious leaders beating them up/arresting them for it.French women cannot wear the hijab in public, armed police will force them to undress at gunpoint.I don't get it this whataboutism with hijab. Everytime I speak to libfems about this and they bring up high heels and bras and I'm at a loss - what about it? How is this relevant to me criticising the hijab?Also, "telling women what to wear is as discriminatory as telling women what not to wear" is horseshite. Women and their choices aren't immune from criticism, this is something libfems don't get.  I don't think anyone should wear it regardles, as I believe it's a symbol of oppression. A woman wearing it as a symbol of religious expression in the west is a kick in the face to our sisters in the east as far as I'm concerned. My question is geared towards what language I should use to sway people to realize no one should be wearing it.Okay, so it's the second one.And Im really mad that there are people on this sub who think choice is what feminism is all about. Im mad that theyre posting here without having read any radfem texts, or thought critically about the issue for more than five minutes. Open your eyes and consider the wider inequalities that lead to women choosing to wear hijabs (or heels, or make up, or whatever oppressive costume you can think of).If you think I believe in choice feminism you haven't been on this sub reading my comments for the last two-some years. I don't think that wearing hijab can be a feminist choice; I think that banning it wholesale is authoritarian, anti-feminist, and counterproductive; I think that if you've ever actually had a conversation with someone who wears a headscarf, or makeup, or high-heels, you'll know that just "telling them not to" isn't going to work; and I think that the kneejerk response of American and European women who actually want to ban it is a double standard considering that there is no movement to legislatively ban the wearing of western clothing of any kind, even though there is western clothing that is not just symbolic and uncomfortable but physically crippling.And Im really mad that there are people on this sub who think choice is what feminism is all about. Im mad that theyre posting here without having read any radfem texts, or thought critically about the issue for more than five minutes.I'm less and less interested in reading and participating in this sub for just that reason.  It seems like this has become a real problem recently...I agree with this, but I feel like many radical feminists dont realise how hard it is for a Muslim women to stop wearing the head scarf or burqa. They have family every where and cant escape the consequences of their actions. I mean it must be easy to talk about unlearning when you dont come from a strict Muslim immigrant family.Banning the hijab would also be detrimental to Muslim as you will see many of them disappear from  society due to their family.Not banning the hijab is also detrimental seeing as it changes absolutely nothing, and just furthers the pressure for young women to veil themselves.Im from a muslim immigrant family as well and its incredible how many white people wont touch this issue because theyre afraid to offend or assume they just dont understand. If more liberal and radical feminists spoke up about this issue and organized around it, perhaps young women like me would have a larger platform to speak.I would love for muslim feminists to do this themselves- but the majority of those are a) religious, and b) are hunted for sport in their own countries and hated by liberal feminists in the west.If the hijab is banned, more people will want to wear it and it will defeat the purpose. I have a friend who comes from a strict Muslim. And I know for a fact if the hijab is banned, I wont be seeing her in public anymore.Yasss! Reminded me of this fantastic TED talk on the subject: https://youtu.be/_J5bDhMP9lQI still believe however that the government should not ban them because at least in the U.S the government is mostly male, and I don't like more laws by men telling women what to do.The problem is that the government doesnt need to be reformed re: hijabs, the religion does.  So whether the government of any country does or does not outlaw it doesnt really matter if the social structure is built around the religion anyway.Its a "there's no simple answer" type of problem.YeahI dont care who is telling women what to do when it comes to issues like these. If the US government decides to crack down on rapists tomorrow morning, I won  t stand in their way because "the government is mostly male" lmao.Lets take progress where we can, instead of debating about the purity of everyones intentions.Taslima Nasreen is brilliant.Well to be fair, it does seem like Europe and Canada and Australia are learning that most men from Islamic parts of the world actually ARE rapists...  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.The trans lobby is going to be furious.They already hate single stall bathrooms/unisex spaces because they can't be validated in them.Countdown to them using black people ("wah something something separate water fountains!!!111) in 3...2...1This is actually genius. If they complain about being separate from women, they'll peak trans everyone. While most people don't yet see the harm in the bathroom issue, this is a reasonable accommodation to keep both women and trans identifying males safer. Any outrage is going to show everyone that it was never about safety: it was about people being forced to believe they are twu wimminz.And if they complain about these separate trans areas being too violent they're basically reinforcing our point that these men are too dangerous to be housed with women.I foresee violent offenders claiming to be trans to get into the trans wing, which will lead to a huge argument about who's "truly trans" and who's not, and the whole movement will just fold in on itself as they start stabbing each other in the back. Making popcorn now. It's a bit early, but we're gonna need a lot of popcorn.How irritating, though... they will finally have this conversation because other trans people will be in danger and not because women were. Nobody gave a shit about stopping and thinking about this for a second when we were the ones who were being screwed up.Not that I want to see trans people physically assaulted, but I'm excited to see this shit explode in their faces.This is when having a clear definition would be helpful for some folks.They are going to hate this, they will be right back to being housed with men like themselves.Narcissists cannot get along with each other, it's going to be epic.They are going to claim each other is fake. No submissive to play the fetish off of, they all want to go to the front of the woman's line- and they are all narcissisticSo true, narcissists tend to get physically violent with each other too, which will be great in showing everybody just how violent TIMs really are.The separate water fountains doesn't have anywhere near the same resonance in the UK, for obvious reasons. It will be interesting to see what else they come up with.That does not stop themThey compare FGM to male circumcision and say they suffered from FGM if they had their penis circumcised.They use the Holocaust and Nazi comparisons for hurt feelings.These men are disgusting reprobates.Aye aye, they love the drama. But it's not going to be a very persuasive comparison in a British context."be validated" = sexually assault women and children?You are so right that this isn't abouy safety, its about validating them as a women. If it was about safety, they would hold the actual men hurting them in bathrooms and prison accountable instead of women. Women didnt do anything to them, yet we are the bad guys. In this whole issue, there is no conversation about the real problem- rape and abuse in men's prisons.Text;The Prison Service is to stop many transgender inmates, including sex offenders, serving their sentences in womens prisons.The justice minister Ed Argar said the government was revising guidelines that said the great majority of trans prisoners should be allowed to experience the system in the gender in which they identify.Options now under consideration include clustering trans prisoners in special wings or sections of wings. A number of high-risk trans inmates have already been moved back to mens prisons, The Sunday Times can reveal.Ministers acted after Karen White, a convicted sex offender who retains her male genitalia, was allowed into New Hall womens prison near Wakefield, where she sexually assaulted two female prisoners.The change has become more urgent after officials forecast that numbers of trans or non-binary prisoners in England and Wales could rise to 1,000, up from 139 last year. There are about 4,000 biological women in prison.Argar said: We take the Karen White case very seriously. New guidelines will be published shortly to ensure that [the policy] continues to strike the right balance between ensuring that all female prisoners are kept safe [and] that transgender prisoners have their rights respected.As a result of the White case, the justice ministry said, it had already made the difficult decision to move a small number of transgender women back into the male estate.The change was seized on by campaigners against plans to allow people to self-identify. Nicola Williams, of Fair Play for Women, said: Its an admission that allowing males to self-identify as women and letting them into womens spaces is dangerous."Who retains her male genitalia"For fucks sake.I self identify as a dragonfly, I require you set me free as all dragonflies should be.Did you know that male dragonflies don't care whether the females want to have sex with them, and grab the back of the female's neck and holds on to her for hours, sometimes resulting in her becoming injured or death by drowning?I was being harassed by a dragonfly yesterday arvo. Now Im a bit officials forecast that numbers of trans or non-binary prisoners in England and Wales could rise to 1,000, up from 139 last year. There are about 4,000 biological women in prison.Well...there's enough for their own wing at least?They're supposed to be what, 1% of humans? 2% tops and they're making up 1/4 of the crimes that half the population does? Move along girls, nothing to see here /sA group that's estimated at being about 0.6% of the overall population is predicted to be imprisoned in the same numbers as 25% of the female population.So that's an imprisonment rate (50% /(0.6% x 4)) = 20.83 times higher than the female population.  I wonder which other group has a similar imprisonment rate?*(* hint: in the UK men are imprisoned at 20.44 times the rate of women - spooky coincidence?)Quit being such a transphobe /sThere are those pesky facts again.spooky indeed!Statistics are TERFY!I'd be willing to bet that the minute TIMs are no longer sent to women's prison, the number of male inmates identifying as women will drop considerably.Yeah I agree with that hunch!In one year they expect the population of TiM inmates to be equal to 1/4th of the entire female inmate population....but we're not supposed to say things like TiMs commit crimes at the same rates as men....we're supposed to say their behavior is in line with the general population of women....SURE, JANOr their own prison entirely if 4000 women are it in the UK.I don't think it means that it will rise to 1000 in one yearexperience the system in the genderAhh yes, more male fantasies at the expense of women."seized on" way to shade the rad fems.FFS, the Karen White case makes me LIVID.Is there no one with a brain in the whole UK justice ministry? What did you think would happen when you put a sexual predator with intact male genitalia into a womens prison? Fucking morons. That should not have happened to those women. It's just sickening.This is good news for women.FABULOUS!!!!And, I think this will be better for Trans people--maybe, most of all.I think so! Perhaps it will allow them to get more specific treatment to their needs as opposed to thinking and treating them like they are women, which helps absolutely no one.  I readI hope they will give them much better medical care.As "I hope they will give them much better medical care than women."Which is probably why you're being downvoted.Or you could just post to the anarcho feminism sub, or create one instead of being here for five minutes and telling 26 000 people how to feminist.I upvoted you for what it is worth.:/Good. Good for everyone. They can harass each other at will. And share clothes and make-up and hairstyling because of course that's what we ladies do all day long...  I wonder if their periods will syncBahahahahaUsername checks outhttps://gfycat.com/rigidjampackedbasenjiEXCELLENTDrag Race is the New Black!Options now under consideration include clustering trans prisoners in special wingsGlorious common sense! Hallelujah!(Although I do also think that the 60% of MtF prisoners who aren't sex offenders should be "clustered" separately from the 40% who are.)I've wondered for years why violent and non-violent offenders are in the same prisons.It becomes much harder to justify jailing the mentally ill and drug addicted. When they're seen as unique groups it becomes clear they need health care not confinement. Lump them in with violent offenders and they're "just another criminal."There are different categories of prison in the U.K. where prisoners are placed depending on their sentence, nature of crime, likelihood of escape, tendency to be violent etc.  Absolute best way to go.  We cant deny it would be dangerous for them in regular male gen pop.  And the government cant deny its a danger to the women in regular gen pop.  Keep as many people safe as possible.It's going to be dangerous for the male transsexuals (the gay TIMs) in these wings. They're often the victims of predatory behaviour from AGPs anyway so being locked up with them can't possibly be good news.But I think that's one for the transsexual community to sort out. They've allowed the perverts to use them as cover for far too long, and it's been damaging and harming women.That's an infight they need to sort out themselves.  The way to keep absolutely everyone safe in prison is solitary for every inmate, but thats not a possibility, and is unhealthy in so many other ways.The way to keep absolutely everyone safe in prison is solitary for every inmate,Solitary is actually really harmful for people - we are social creatures. So this should never be a general solution for all people in prison.Which is why the second part of that statement was "and is unhealthy in so many other ways."dur! my bad!  ...why would it be any more dangerous for them in a men's prison than it is for any other men?...do all gay men and scrawny men get the women's prison with their own special wing too? or do the child rapists get a separate wing because more men hate them? TiMs are less likely to experience violence in life than other men. they are just men with mental disorders, not unlike a great deal of the male prison population thats already in there. they dont deserve special treatment.  They often do keep effeminate gay men segregated from the general pop in their own wing for the same reasons, yes.Plenty of groups--including cops who are inmates, pedophiles & rapists--also get put in segregation usually on the taxpayer's dime.  I think the estimated cost is $10,000ish per year to protect the scumbags.  Example:  Daniel Holtzclaw, the police officer who raped a bunch of Black women in Oklahoma, is in segregation "for his own safety" :\I'm cool with separating gay & trans inmates, but fuck all that other noise.  If you're in for raping a woman or child or happen to be a corrupt cop who did something bad enough to actually get locked up, you deserve to sit in general pop.I think the UK's prison regime isn't (yet) as brutal as the American one so a lot of these problems aren't going to be as prominent.If you're in for raping a woman or child or happen to be a corrupt cop who did something bad enough to actually get locked up, you deserve to sit in general pop.I get it, I totally get the anger.However, I am against prison "justice" being dispensed.It continues the cycle of violence.Plus there are innocent men locked up.The first man who used DNA to prove his innocence was accused of raping and murdering a ten year old.He didn't do it.The man who did it was in the cell below him!He suffered for years, including losing his beloved mother while in prison.Now what would have happened to him in the general pop?Only through his efforts was he able to prove his innocence.And any man who would rape another man, no matter the other mans crimes, is a bad person to start with!Are they at the women's prison though?...I believe child rapists are seperated from the general population exactly for this reason.I agree that gay, GNC, and otherwise feminine men are in danger in the same way TIMs are, and them not receiving the same protection as TIMs is unfair, but I still think preventing some sexual violence is more important than making sure no one gets special treatment. My question is how it would work if prisons seperated feminine men from masculine men.My question is how it would work if prisons seperated feminine men from masculine men.This is the kind of question where it's easy for me to go to war with myself in a way where the ideology falls in on itself in my own mind.Soooooo if we assume that the effeminate ones are "good" and need to be kept away from the "bad" masculine ones... but they're all in prison... and you can have a 6'5" effeminate guy and a 5'1" masculine guy... and is there a correlation between being "good" and being feminine? Like does being effeminate mean being docile and nonviolent? But if they're all in San Quentin, then they're all guilty of crimes... and why would the effeminate ones necessarily be guilty of less awful crimes... and if the goal is keeping them safe, then why shouldn't the effeminate ones be given the opportunity to make friends in the wider community, like telling them they're all little victims seems kinda jacked... and once you divide them into "girly men" and "manly men" aren't they just going to beat on each other within those two groups... who wants to be the girliest man in genpop? And aren't you assuming in some way that one group or the other is irredeemable? And you know this is going to be racialized where the nastiest little Asian dude who killed 10 men in a gangland hit is deemed effeminate while the huge black guy with unpaid parking tickets is never going to get the benefit of the doubt....Ugh. Not saying the idea is bad, but it would fall to shit in practice unless it was strictly between LGBTWTFBBQ and straights, no matter how manly or girly.They really should at least be separating prisoners who are there for non-victim/victimless crimes (crimes like having drugs) from those whose crimes were for the purpose of there being victims. Of course there would be a gray line in the middle somewhere but how ridiculous is it to have a serial killer housed with somebody who had some marijuana?In the U.K. there are different categories of prison (high security, medium, low, open). Non-violent, low-risk prisoners tend not to be placed in the same prisons as the serial murderers.Many prison systems seperate gay men from gen pop.  Its not new.Someone with fake breasts, manufactured vagina, etc is going to be targeted for sexual assault in mens prison.  You would have to be in full denial of the realities inside prisons to think otherwise.TiMs are less likely to experience violence in life than other men.Thats out in the world, not inside prisons.  Theres a prison rape culture that is completely seperate from male rape stats in the free world.  Men who would have no interest having sex with or raping another man in regular society can and do sexually assault other men in prison.They can steal each other's wigs, and argue who is a bottomIf the capitalist state takes a rapist, murderer, child abuser, etc and removes them from society im not gonna complain.Would it be better if they were locked up by a socialist state or something?  Or not by any state, just by random mobs in the street dispensing justice?I'm PLENTY familiar with it.Please describe your non-prison approaches for dealing with sexual assault.I'd love to know how you'd avoid situations like the one I linked above.That link is a 404.  I'd actually quite like to hear you explain it on your own, without reference to other reddit threads, if you would.How familiar are you with chronic child rapists?Not very.  Point me in a direction and im happy to take a lookI meant like reading material you would recommend, but ok.  Its not really helping me understand what a better form of justice would be thoughwow that was a load of rape apologiaI started it, but judging by the first part  its probably not something i could go forthe 'perpetrator' abides by the agreement and is regularly checked in on by their support group, as is the 'survivor'.So what happens if the perpetrator of a crime doesnt abide by the agreement made with the victim?Yeah, let's, uh, do restorative justice instead and make rape victims talk to their accusers until everyone's happy!https://filtermag.org/2018/09/25/how-can-we-reconcile-prison-abolition-with-metoo/Here's a lovely example of how "transformative/restorative justice" approaches work.A man is accused of sexual wrongdoing.He's never taken in by the state, never incarcerated or put on trial. He has to go to a few counseling sessions and the entire organization has to attend sexual assault trainings.Meanwhile, the victim never comes back, and the teacher DID come back and stayed in the organization (but he was viewed with distrust, the poor fellow!).All you'll find if you look into "prison abolition" and actual stories of what it looks like when rape is approached with these techniques are stories like these.These techniques create the perfect conditions for serial predators.Its rape apologia at best, centered on allowing the rapists views to be heard and validatedIs this for real?If your views are the kind of thing that aren't allowed by content rules, maybe we'd get along fine. ;-)  Hard disagree.  If we're talking about non-violent crime, sure.  But rape, domestic violence, animal or child abuse, murder, child molestation & other horrific acts are what prisons are built for.  We must have a place to house these animals to protect society & punish them for their crimes already committed.  Act like an animal, get treated like one.If you want to argue for improved conditions in prison & better rehabilitation programs, sure.  I can get behind that because it just makes practical sense as most inmates will be released one day.  But fuck shortening sentences of violent offenders or trying to rehabilitate psychopaths.  Not everyone CAN be fixed.(I do support ending the drug war completely & legalizing every drug.  Prostitution should no longer be a crime either; at least not for the sex workers.  Violent pimps & johns?  Lock 'em up.  Legalize, tax & regulate = safer than leaving these markets open to violent criminals.  Banning these things doesn't make them go away.  Petty theft could be handled with short sentences & rehab).But fuck shortening sentences of violent offenders or trying to rehabilitate psychopaths. Not everyone CAN be fixed.This right here.I don't know how our tribal, roaming on the plains ancestors dealt with predators, but I'm sure it involved shoving them off a cliff.Some people are so dangerous, they can never be  let out.Lock them away, treat them humanely, we do not want to be monsters like them, and never let them out.Lol pm me your views.I'll kinda curious why on earth we shouldn't be locking up people who molest children, rapists, or murderers.Unless you think we should summiraly execute them on the spot that is I dont think Im capable of killing another person, but if I had to choose between restorative justice for predators, or me being their executioner, I would give it a damn good go TBH.I'm fine with this but TRAs are going to have a huge fit.As per fucking usual. When are they not having a fit?Honestly? That' s just an added bonus.When do they not? It's all they do most of the time.Let them fit away. It will be very interesting to see how the public react to them having a tantrum when they are literally getting their own special accommodation.I think they're motivated by pure practicality rather than any sympathy or concern for women. The women's prison estate would have collapsed trying to accommodate the number of TIM prisoners.Still though, it's surprisingly rare for anyone in a position of power/authority to acknowledge the inevitable logical consequences of trans ideology. I'm almost amazed that they noticed the collapse of the women's prison system was on the cards even though the issue is glaringly obvious. I wish some sports governing bodies would likewise pay attention to the inevitable consequences for women's sports.  Women's prisons and the systems that support them are pretty much always much smaller than their male equivalents. Overcrowding is an issue everywhere but when it nears breaking point in women's facilities there are less options to alleviate it. Women's prisons are already at capacity most of the time. Single rooms/cells are already doubled, tripled and quadrupled up. Sanitary amenities like toilets and showers need to exist in proportion (eg. In Aus it used to be one toilet and shower per 5 prisoners), so they can't just keep turning beds to bunks and squeezing more bodies in.This is a problem before even considering how to accomodate men who want to be housed in women's prisons. Men generally have more prisons and can be shuffled around. A man might spend his five year sentence in seven different facilities whereas a woman might have the option of two - if she behaves well enough to lower her security classification. So yeah, pragmatism is probably a big factor. Areas in men's prisons can be repurposed to accomodate trans populations. Women's prisons simply don't have the space for that. If a women's prison just built a trans unit it would be a security, healthcare and logistics nightmare and it must always be full to justify its existence. In a male prison, they have the luxury of many options for repurposing space.Fantastic news, but is this 'special' wing' in the men's prison or the women's? because that could still create problems for women.It said that they had already removed TIMs from women's prisons.Sounds ok to me.This is great news.  Let's just hope The Prison Service doesn't just consider violent criminals in this decision but all trans prisoners or prisoners who consider themselves trans, whether they've had surgery or not.  Any crimes committed by these prisoners while incarcerated can be dealt with by the prison system and prosecuted, just as it always has been with any other prisoners.Finally some sanity!Yes!This is great news!Awesome! That is a perfect solution for people to be safe during their incarceration!I think this is great news.  And well overdue. Id be interested to know though, what sex will the prison officers be?  Im obv thinking of those who have to search the prisoners...I'm sure they can find some transpeople looking for work.This is brilliant. A victory for reality, common sense and the safety of women.This is great.I also like how even thinking about them having an issue with it made me go around in insane circles: if trans women are women, then surely they have no issue with being placed among trans women cause if trans women are women, then being placed with trans women is the same as being placed with "cis" women.Just lunacy. Why claim you're the same in the first place, but suffer from different, *more severe* discrimination cause you're *not* the same as "cis" women. Pick one!Good idea! They should be attached to mens prisons, though.Brilliant! Perfect solution all round28 minutes ago  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.I admire her. She is brave. These are the Women from the middle east that need to be heard. Not Linda Sarsour. Linda is a mouth piece for a  male dominated religionShe's great. Yasmine Mohammed, Asra Nomani, Ayaan Hirsi Ali, Sarah Haider, Hiba Krisht, Raheel Raza - all awesome women worth checking out on youtube and twitter.Because far too many left-identifying Americans think progressivism is about performing disgust tolerance. The more disgusting/discomforting/frightening they find a group of people, the more "woke" it is to express "tolerance" for them. No need to apply any analysis as to why they feel that disgust and certainly no need to think about real-world consequences of "tolerance," it's all just performance for in-group belonging.There is a book, Haidt: The righteous Mind, dealing, in a huge part, with that sort of moral relativism. I've got a copy from far far left forums. Pity moral consciousness is such a taboo subject it's only discussed in outskirt movements, in a hush-hush way.Have an upvote and a silver my sister!  There was a time not that long ago when many Muslims would have laughed at you if you suggested all women had to wear a hijab or face sexual harassment or rape.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_ZIqdrFeFBk> In the year '53 we really wanted to compromise with the Muslim  Brotherwood if they were willing to be reasonable. And I met the head of  the Muslim Brotherhood and he sat with me and made his resquests. What  did he request ? The first thing he asked for was to make wearing a  hijab mandatory in Egypt and demand that every woman walking in the  street wear a tarha (scarf). [crowd laughing] Every woman walking!  [Someone from the crowd shouts ''Let him wear it!'' the crowd applauds  and laughs] If I make that a law, they will say that we have returned to  the days of Al-Hakim bi-Amr Allah who forbade people from walking at  day and only allowed walking at night. And my opinion is that every  person in his own housedecide sfor himself the rules and he replied  ''No, as a leader, you are responsible''. I told him, ''Sir, you have a  daughter in the School of Medicine and she's not wearing a tarha''.  [crowd laughing] ''Why didn't you make her wear a tarha? [crowd  applause] If you are unable to make one girl - who is your daughter -  wear the tarha, you want me to put a tarha on 10 million women? Myself?  [laughs with crowd]''.Imagine if he said that today?  The Islamic president of Egypt would be accused of racism by a libfem for not wanting women to be forced to wear hijabs.Now because of the influence of Saudi Wahhabism and the support of idiot liberal westerners the Muslim world is sliding backwards to who knows where.Euh. It isn't the fault of the liberal westerners that the islam is in such a state. Let's not pretend. My culture has a rich history of oppressing women long before whitey came along. And yes, before Saudi influence as well. The Egyptian president doesn't give a shit about what some libfem thinks omg.I agree. Violence against women and misogyny are a man problem, not a white problem (though white men are definitely involved)I'm familiar with this video but the link you gave doesn't work for me, here's a correct one https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_ZIqdrFeFBkIt's not the libfems fault (although they do help spread this lunacy), it's the oil money which allowed the Saudis to export their conservative interpretation of Islam abroad https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_propagation_of_Salafism_and_WahhabismThe mosques that pop up all over the place in the West now are founded by SA, Qatar, Kuwait and others. They're not interested in spreading "Islam light" that's compatible with the Western values, you can be sure of that. There are many many vids on youtube taken by undercover reporters in mosques in the West and the shit they teach there explains everything that's going on in the world right now - the problem is, no one goes there. People just assume they teach some "love thy neighbour" type of shit, just in Arabic... Luckily, many European countries are now banning foreign funding for mosques, Austria closed down 7 of them and expelled a bunch of imams recently. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3WgVa3VRFb4I just finished reading The Handmaid's Tale and holy shit. The parallels. Even down to foreign people being 'tolerant' of what was going on, what was happening to women.36 minutes agoOmg the scene with the tourists!!!!!What a surprise that a religion of slave traders would be oppressive to women.True path towards emancipation and liberation is through rejection of religion.They agree with the current anti-women beliefs and man's right to control  women. This alone made many western men go to the far east to join ISILThe real conundrum here is why do US citizens keep calling their centrist liberals "left wing".Well when I criticize Islam and trans ideology I get called alt-right by the left, so there's that....Left and right really have always been relative terms, not objective ones, and our center is pushed way, way to the right. Its too bad this isnt understood in the US.It's a natural reaction to watching th  right wing demonize Muslim's and use fear to advance their imperial pursuits. It's the same reason they are pro trans, it's just a desire to express acceptance for marginalized groups. That's why there has to be left critiques of trans ideology and Islam. We can't afford to cede this to the right wing.Go back to the Donald.What? He is in good company here! Surrounded by other reactionary scumGo awayI follow her on Twitter.She is a treasure.One of the biggest things the woke left says is if you're not from that culture or not that race, sit down, shut up and listen. Well, Muslim women are speaking and I'm listening. What they have to say a lot of the time is not exactly pro-Islam.I'm Jewish. You want to insult Kaporos? Go RIGHT AHEAD. It's disgusting.I'm not Muslim but I feel 100% comfortable with saying that chopping off Danny Pearl's head was wrong. Throwing gays off buildings? Very wrong.I'm not British but I don't need to listen to anyone regarding fox hunting. Wrong wrong wrong. Not Chinese and not interested in listening to anyone about foot binding.Does the woke left expect the world to sit down, shut up and listen while Americans explain the Trail of Tears or experimentation on blacks at Tuskegee? I'm white, so if you're black please listen to me about why lynchings and the KKK aren't bad.With the exception of Tim McVeigh, every act of terrorism carried out on American soil has been by MuslimsI we stunned reading that. Then I found out your a trump supporter. How are you people this delusional?And lastly they're United by anti-Semitism. Actually I might even put that first.Rich coming from a right wingerExactly. Shooting up places of worship, shooting up schools, shooting up work areas, sending bombs to people are all acts of terror predominately done by white non muslim men. If right wingers didn't fearmonger about Muslims and Islam then leftist wouldn't defend it so blindly/ without critique. I am not defending leftist behavior we shouldn't be so reactionary (reacting to right wing hate) but what cfinboston is doing isn't right either. We can critique the religion without making up lies to villainize them.I was thinking, hey, what about the Unibomber, at least!Because, this type,they're about narratives(one bad guy..others must be made good, by default) and victim-hierarchies. If you fall further down the tree, tough..doesnt matter what they do to women or if x group is tossing gay people off buildings.This is why I no longer consider myself a leftist.Why can't you stay a leftist and critique it?  Its not a club, it's a set of ideas. Which leftist idea do you now presumably disagree withBecause, this type,they're about narratives(one bad guy..others must be made good, by default) and victim-hierarchies. If you fall further down the tree, tough..doesnt matter what they do to women or if x group is tossing gay people off buildings.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.This poor child was mutilated because their parents wanted book deals and reality TV shows more than they wanted a gay son. I hope Jazz eventually sues all adults involved, including the medical professionals who fucked up his body, then butchered it.That's not likely to happen. That would involve the process of tearing down his identity and building it up from scratch, without a support system. And he's so used to the spotlight by now, tlc wouldnt film that ugly process.You don't think that five years from now TLC won't be trying to make money on a reality show about detransitioners? I would so not be surprised.This. They' re going to do what brings money. If in 5 years this trans-obsession is over, I can totally see them making shows about detransitioners.Mark my words:When detransitioning hits the mainstream:it will be made into another moneymaker freak showleftists/men will repeat the warnings and analysis of gender-critical women/radfems and give them no creditthe narrative will blame feminists as a group somehow for transition ever being a thingLOL, you don' t need to convince me, I agree completely. Especially the last part. I don' t know how they' re going to sell that, but they' ve been nothing but creative so far so I expect something explosive (and lies).I' m just going to add that the blame will be dual: part of these assholes will blame us for creating the problem in the first place, the others will recognize we fought it but will blame us for not fighting hard enough against it and letting it go this far.I think plastic surgeons will make bank on reconstructive surgeries.Plastic surgeons will never be out of jobs, especially if they created the problem in the first place.And now I' m in full conspiracy theory mode...It's more likely he will kill himself than "detransition."I hope not, but I have seen you say this in several threads recently... It's chilling.Detransition is a very powerful platform from which to speak.He would be a powerful spokesperson, but I just don't know.  It looks so bleak for him.He doesn't realize how much he has been betrayed.Will it take five years?Good question. I was being kind of conservative. Maybe two or three . . .I think that Jazz is likely to be in therapy for a while and will need a long time to explore their identity and feelings about all this.I literally don't know if Jazz is capable of exploring his feelings on it. The drugs that stunt puberty also stunt IQ (https://www.reddit.com/r/GenderCritical/comments/9q7ptb/012317_drop_in_iq_of_about_8_points_seen_in_small/). This is probably why he takes his mother's word as gospel and believes in psychics despite being an adult.I don't think it's necessarily just an IQ thing. He has been brainwashed since childhood.I wouldn't be surprised if he ends up committing suicide; I know that's not nice to say, but what happens when he snaps out of it and realises how much his parents and this corrupt surgeon fucked up his life (plus any chance at having a normal relationship with a partner) ?I know this goes against my normal radfem principles of accepting reality but I kind of hope that at this point he never wakes up. It's unlikely, but I do. I can't imagine the kind of psychological torture it would be to not only detransition after NEVER having gone through puberty, but also knowing that your parents, your fans, and law enforcement did NOTHING to stop it, and instead encouraged you to continue so they could watch. That's a whole other level of betrayal. I want a happy independent life for him after this exploitation but all he knows is being a trans activist. I don't know if he sees a career or future in doing anything else.He is like George "Christine" Jorgensen.  All Jorgensen could do after he became the world's first "transsexual" was exploit his notoriety.  His life was ruined, completely and totally ruined, and he died of cancer well before his time.Woah! It's your 8th Cakeday RetlaOge! hugI just feel like the surgery was ultimately not totally necessary from watching the show. It didnt seem like Jazz was that upset about having a penis. Why put your child (or yourself) through a risky and unnecessary surgery if you dont absolutely have to?Jazz was told from age 3 (I mean how many of us, barring trauma, have clear memories of being three years old?) that he was transgender. Why would be really believe otherwise at  17? His mom is a real piece of work: shes always shocked when something comes up with Jazz. I find it predatory to put your child on reality television anyway but Jazz has been subjected to public scrutiny that was ultimately not necessary for him.The parents are horrible. They brainwashed this kid and made him believe he was in the wrong body from the time he could walk and put him on tv when he was in kindergarten. They love the fame and money they get by destroying their son's life. It's disgusting, and it's child abuse. He will wake up one day and realize the immense harm they inflicted on him.I hope Jazz is someday able to escape the media attention, find an identity beyond Celebrity Trans Person, and build a normal life. Unfortunately, the odds don't look good.I also hope that Jazz's parents, agents, producers, and doctors get sued to hell and back.They should be in a fucking jail. All of them.I agree.  Why CPS hasn't intervened in this "family" yet is  beyond me.  It's obvious these grifting parents have abused this young man for all his life.This is "transgender" surgery:  "Jeanette reaches out to a doctor after Jazz starts complaining about the abnormal appearance of her genitals post surgery."Jazz needs to stop being the toddler and talk to his doctor without his mother present--his mother who is keeping him infantilized.JHC, I was the mother of 2 sons and I would never have interfered with their very being the way this woman does, this woman who is living vicariously through a son she has manipulated all his life.This is one of the things about trans ideology that I continue to be horrified by.Either you're old enough to be an adult and make adult decisions about your body or you are not.If Jazz didn't realize that their pseudo-genitalia might just look like an industrial accident before they had the surgery, then they were too young and immature to have the surgery.Yeah, it's a huge bummer that "adults" and "society" and "laws" won't let you get a tattoo of Voltron on your back when you're 8, but we have those laws because kids are stupid.  I don't really understand how even TRAs can justify what happened to Jazz.  They're all about a person's right to choose their own identity, and hey, so am I - what even is identity, after all?  As long as you don't try to make everyone pretend you're biologically female when you're not, as long as you allow biologically female people to have boundaries, I take no issues with you whatsoever.  But Jazz?  Jazz never chose anything. The parents decided Jazz was trans when Jazz was barely 3 years old.  How is this any different from "assigning sex at birth", which TRAs claim is so terrible?  We can't "assign" biological sex at birth, but assigning a gender identity is a-ok??? lmaoAh, but you see, 3 years old Jazz asked when the genitalia fairy was going to turn his penis into a vagina. That means he totally chose his identity. That' s how they justify it.I watched the "I am Jazz" documentary several years ago before he got the tv show and went in open-minded. That line right there set off so many bullshit alarm bells because what 3 year old expresses themselves like that using adult language? Even if it was true, 3 year olds want to be mermaids, unicorns, dogs, cats, the first astronaut on Jupiter and all sorts of other fanciful things. I wanted to be a dad when I was 3 because being pregnant looked scary and I was my dad's shadow and looked up to him at the time.I wanted to be a cat when I was 3. I still want to be a cat.Me too.Yes, but why are these alleged "doctors" participating in this fraud?  They should all be in jail.Pretty sure the lead doc is trans.ETA: I agree with you, regardless.And the medical profession can't even see through the self-interest in getting rich mutilating people, whether it's groomed children or mentally ill adults.It's disgusting how money rules every decision.  There is no longer an ethical consideration when it comes to money and/or "making a name" for oneself.  You can, however, invent and propagate lies.Money, fame, ego, social pressures, political agenda.Oh my god, wtf would happen if the tissue when from "a little blue" to necrotic?  Not like theres a spare penis to make another fauxgina out of.  The risks associated with this procedure are so insaneOn the newest episode his doctor told him he would have to have a skin graft.Jazz apparently doesn't have much in the way of sexual function so I think their concerns will be mostly cosmetic :(In the episode where they do the initial surgery the doctor is very proud when telling the parents how much depth they were able to achieve, something i dont feel it was necessary to discuss with the parents at all after surgery.  Theres an odd lack of discreetness when it comes to the docs jazz is dealing with.  Jazz could have shared that info with the parents if he wanted to.  This is what happened next in my houseHusband: "did that doctor just...."Me: "Brag to the parents that jazz will be able to handle a 6 inch cock no problem?  Yup, sure did."Husband: "......"Me: "aaaaaaand this is the world we live in now."I know my language probably isnt the most feminist way of putting things, but i said what i said, so whatever.  That's so disgusting, especially since the doctors know Jazz himself can't real feel any sexual pleasure.I wonder how much extra damage they did to him trying to get another inch.I dont follow the show too closely, i didnt know about the sexual pleasure part.  Is it because puberty was blocked and so his penis didnt function like a regular penis and now those nerves they would have used are not functioning?This is basically it.  Jazz never went through puberty and in an episode last year, Jazz admitted to never experiencing sexual interest in men or women or masturbation or sex.  Jazz can have crushes, but only in the way a Kindergartner has crushes - lovey dovey with no sexual aspect.  Everyone, of course, was trying to convince Jazz that sex is an inevitability whether Jazz liked it or not... very disturbing and rape-y.The parents have absolutely no self awareness.  They were supposed to protect their kid and instead they robbed him of so many possibilities in life by consenting to puberty blockers and hormones.  They made their kid chemically asexual.  SmhThey know full well what they are doing.  It is all about the money with these rotten people.   The child is merely a cash cow to them.This show needs to be taken off the air.I find this so, so sad. Having raised adolescent boys, this poor kid is missing out on so much. I don't watch the show, to hear that he had a "past life regression session" (sure, Jan) in which he was a gay man who was rejected by his family and died on the street (HELLO) So sad. Poor, poor kid.I mean, asexuality is a thing. With Jazz, its not exactly obvious whether he became asexual naturally or because of not going through puberty properly.  Im aware that asexuality is a thing but the parents have orchestrated a situation wherein it is impossible to know if Jazzs asexuality occurred organically.  Asexuality is rare, its statistically very likely that Jazz wouldnt be asexual if theyd actually been through puberty.That's my understanding of the situation. He never experienced a male puberty so those nerves atrophied.Parents and medical quacks that put children on puberty blockers need to be locked up. It's nothing short of horrific child abuse.It really is.  If and when jazz is ever upset with them for doing it they'll probably just say "but it was what you wanted" and totally push the blame onto a child, no recognition of the fact that they failed their kid.Yeah, the it was "your choice" crap. You can't fill a child's head with a bunch of bullshit from the time they're four years old, inculcating them with it every single day for the next 15-20 years...and then call it actual freewill.He also didnt even experience a female puberty. I didnt realise this , but apparently giving him female hormones isnt enough to replicate a female puberty because he lacks ovaries . So the poor kid just didnt get any kind of sexual development at all.TIM's notion that they go through a female puberty when they take hormones is as realistic as thinking they are getting a vagina. No, you don't, and no, you're not.He didnt go through puberty, so nothing ever developed. He didnt produce sperm and his penis remained tiny (like a babys ). You also need to go through puberty in order to develop a proper sex drive and ability to get aroused. Theres footage of jazz when hes 16 saying hes never been aroused and never had an orgasm.I wouldn't be surprised if he had to wear a colostomy bag at some point soon.There are a few posts on trans subs about Ting's procedure. The surgeon himself advised several patients AGAINST peritoneal lining option, because it is so thin. He doesn't recommend doing it unless you have no other options.So yeah, definite risk of fistula. Poor kid.And my understanding only other option was using colon tissue, which Jazz did not want to do.Aside from being thin, peritoneal lining is subject to inflammation (peritonitis) when exposed to infection or irritating substances. Its not meant to be exposed to the things a vagina would (and even a colon would be able to withstand). Jazzs mom (ugh) dreams of an active sexual life for Jazz but I think, even setting aside the lack of orgasm ability, I think Jazz will discover sex with his neovagina is not quite as it has been promised to be. I mean, many women are prone to vaginal irritations or infections after sex, how much more susceptible will he be?Why not just accept that your kid is going to have sex in the butt?Why risk your child's health just so there's another hole there?That screen grab is.... uncomfortable. Literally nothing is sacred to these people.Why is his mom in the room?  Shes a fucking monster.  Seeing that shot made me so uncomfortable.It took me a minute to figure out what was going on there. Disturbing.I am absolutely heartbroken for that child. Jazz's parents are monsters and so is everyone who enabled them.This is child abuse.Interesting that there doesn't seem to be any other threads on this on Reddit (at least that I could find).  Even really, really libfem-y handmaiden-y types on some forums I go to are feeling "Hmm..." about Jazz's situation, because the parents are just so blatantly fame hungry and manipulative.  The episode where they kept trying to force Jazz to talk about masturbation etc was so disturbing... imagine forcing your 15, 16 year old child to talk about something so intimate in front of an entire country, imagine getting annoyed with them for not wanting to.  This is narcissistic parenting.Meanwhile, despite needing to be on a diet for the sake of the sexual reassignment surgery, Jazz began binge eating and hiding food in her bedroom (I know, I know - but I feel weird calling this kid by male pronouns considering their parents diagnosed him as trans at barely three years old... in this case, she/her really is all Jazz knows.)  This made it really obvious to me that, on some level, Jazz was avoiding the surgery.  Well, that and the episode where Jazz did hypnosis and cried about "another life" where she was a closeted man who just wanted to be gay...I don't know... I just feel so bad.  The whole world watched this kid get manipulated and abused on television, week to week, and did nothing.It's child abuse plain and simple. My heart breaks for him and his siblings. The mom actively ignores his older brothers and treats her actual daughter like shit while putting "Jazz" up on a pedestal. This kid hasn't been allowed an identity outside of "trans poster child" and it's so clear mom has coached, bullied and gaslit him and the entire family. Dad and the grandparents are complicit with their silence even if you can tell they're side-eyeing the shit out of mom a lot of the time.It's Munchausen By Proxy hour brought to you by the TLC circus freak channel. See the half man half woman! Followed by The Fat Ladies and Fat Men (My 600 lb Life), The Amazing Tom Thumbs (Little People, Big World), The Geeks (My Strange Addiction), The Fortune Teller (Long Island Medium), and the various medical marvels!Holy shit, that is so accurate.  The connection between circus freaks and TLC never made it to the front of my brain, and laying it out that way is just... chilling.Well, that and the episode where Jazz did hypnosis and cried about "another life" where she was a closeted man who just wanted to be gay...Oh my god, this poor kid  There are some tweets on twitter calling GC  condescending know it alls about everything happening on the show while not understanding it all happened a year ago and is just airing now.No, we are aware the surgery was several months ago. It is being discussed now because the show is airing it now for all to see; if TLC and Jazz and family did not want it discussed they would stop the show (but then there goes that cash cow!) The predictions about the risks and awfulness of the surgery were all discussed here long before the surgery even happened because it even the most imbecile of imbeciles will realize doing an experimental surgery that often gets botched in Jazzs surgeons own words is incredibly risky for well, being botched.And for those that think surgical complications cant be life-long and would have all been sorted or put behind Jazz several months ago, ha. Anything that requires lifelong dilation to avoid sealing up carries a lifelong risk of complications.We arent the ones who have the trouble separating propaganda and fantasy sold by people profiting from Jazz from the reality.Anyone who supports this absolutely horror show inflicted on Jazz - from the puberty blockers, to the hormones, to the surgery - all on a child who will forever remain a child because he has been denied any puberty is condoning child abuse. Discussing events being aired on a television show that happened months ago does not even come close to the vileness of that. Focusing on when it happened does not deflect from the fact it happened.I know it seems super gross and pedo-riffic, but not letting your offspring experience sexual enjoyment as a mature adult with the partner of their choosing seems like some human rights violating horror. Don't put your hangups on your kids.I'm all for a restriction on children appearing on reality tv shows. How can they give informed consent, they can't understand the ramifications.That poor kid.this looks a lot like munchausen by proxy syndrome, basically parents getting attention by presenting their children as seriously ill.This has been brought up a few times in the Jazz threads, and I think there is something to it. If so, Jazzs mother would not be nearly as upset by the complications as Jazz would be because for her they feed into the Munchausen (now her child is truly ill, so even better!)I have a feeling this is a severe case of Munchausen by Proxy. His mom thrives off of the attention she gets for having a 'transgender' son, nobody is allowed to question whether or not he's transgender, and there are tons of heavily biased and extremely pro-trans 'professionals' ready to back up and 'defend' his long crafted (by mom) 'identity.'This is like the lobotomy fad of old. I wouldn't be surprised if after the gee whiz novelty wears off, if there appears a bunch of class action lawsuits against the state and other professions for falling prey to the grandstanding and vocal trans activists and failing to create timely safeguards.All in all, likely a future warning to not get carried away with  a trendy diagnostic 'fad' no matter how 'progressive' it might make one feel.I watched this episode because so many people were talking about it and holy shit, poor jazz. I can't imagine being 18 years old, all the body and social anxiety anyone would feel at that age, and watching your genitalia literally fall apart. Even best case scenario for jazz now, say it turns out cosmetically okay and the function of it is okay for jazz, the scar tissue and the tension is going to leave her with pain for life . How will she ever do sport or anything ever again if that part of her body is under so much tension the stitches all popped? I hope she recovers as much as possible, it was horrifying to watch.Also that Dr ting is so inconsistent - on the one hand it's the most complicated case he's ever seen , but then he says she's young and should heal quickly and sends her home after three days. Then he writes off these complications as 'to be expected'.The surgeon sent him home after three days?!God. Okay I need to ban myself from reading about Jazz.  Its really triggering as a woman who had a vaginoplasty.  His surgery is essentially a significantly more complex version of what I had performed, and my surgeon kept me in hospital for 9 days, and followed up with me monthly for a year.  No one in my family ever asked to see the results, because theyre not indecent monsters like Jazzs family.  I genuinely cant imagine going through what I went through in front of the whole country, without anyone in my court.  Its obvious not a single adult in this situation cares about Jazz.  My heart breaks for this kid.This medical team is insane.  Hes young, hell heal quickly is fucking nuts.  These complications are to be expected??  His mom in the room like that while someone is checking on his fucking genitals???  What the fuck.  God.  Fuck.  This kid! He never had a chance!Vaginoplasty is a difficult to perform surgery that takes months if not years to recover from.  It carries significant mental health risks that no one seems to want to talk about.  It isnt easy.  It isnt a magic wand.  We need to be honest with kids about what the risks are and what the results are like, whether theyre trans like Jazz or they have a disorder of sexual development/vaginal agenesis like me.Ugh god, wow, sorry.  I guess this is a pretty touchy subject for me still.I hope Jazz sues them all. His Mother sexually abused him, and brought him to a doctor with a fetish that could not wait to experiment on himJazz is male, and always will be, regardless of how he self-identifies, what he wears or what surgeries he elects to undergo.And its a travesty that hes experienced his lifetime in the public eye essentially as a science experiment, medicated to such a great degree that even the surgery he presumably wants becomes fraught with complications.His life is utterly destroyed.  There needs to be consequences for those responsible for this horrendous case of child abuse.Sent home early so that TLC could get on with filming without the restrictions of Jazz recovering in a hospital."Him." "He." Let's not missex people.The parents should be thrown in jail for child abuse.This show should never have been allowed to air in the first place.Even in this upsetting clip, you can sense the mums buzz from having her munchausens-by-proxy/narcissism fed with so much attention.I know. She looked so happy that the DOCTOR had to come RIGHT AWAY when she texted him...Well, that was horrifying to watch. That poor child got some medically unnecessary surgery just because his mom convinced him that he should hate his body. Has the mom every been examined for Munchausen syndrome?He could have had a totally normal life as a gay man. He could have married, maybe found a surrogate and had a biological child. Now that will never be an option. Hell never have a genuine relationship. He might find a closeted gay man who is attracted to his male scent and pheromones and while pretending to be straight, but what kind of life is that?the thing is jazz has no Idea whether or not he's really attracted to menhe's been told he should be attracted to boys because "he" is a girl and girls are attracted to boysNo, not a "surrogate," for that another form of exploitation as in prostitution.Nobody is entitled to parenthood.I watched the episode, and Im still not sure about the outcome, other than there were complications and additional surgery. Jazz posted somewhere wording likemy vagina fell apart. So now he has...nothing? Just a vulva..???Poor kid.Jazz posted somewhere wording likemy vagina fell apartThis is next level horrorshow  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Yeah, well try getting campus IRB approval for any rigorous research on the harms of pornography, particularly on children.So OF COURSE there's not going to be a lot "scientific evidence to back this up." What little there is has gotten there through the determination of feminist researchers who must have the serenity of Buddhist nuns. It is maddening to try to study this in most academic circles.Rethinking the challenges of proposed anti-porn legislation of the 1980s (and I sure hope they've consulted MacKinnon this, who's teaching at U Michigan), I do think the Arizona approach is a good first step. If nothing else, we should at least be taxing the hell out of this moral travesty, and funneling it into shelters for abused and trafficked women and children.There most challenging part is there is no sample size of men over the age of 12ish not watching porn for researchers to do legit studies.Just curious, it's not my research area at all -- what are the specific hurdles to IRBs for pornography research?Ive heard that the research that has already been done on porn exposure has shown it to be harmful to the subjects, so ethics boards are not willing to approve research that knowingly causes harm. Need source though.That makes sense, too bad its a huge catch22. I wish we could get some uni ethics boards to get behind  porn abolition.If anyone could dig up one of these sources I'd be great to have.https://antipornfeminists.wordpress.com/https://www.culturereframed.org/http://stoppornculture.org/https://fightthenewdrug.org/It's also mentioned in Pornified by Pamela PaulYes, IIRC nothing involving porn gets approved now because the research we DO have shows that it harms the participants severely.For one, it seems that pornography research would also require a Human Subjects Review by another board if I'm understanding the process correctly. Porn research requires full IRB approval (as opposed to partial? I am not fluent in the process) because unless you're basing the research on self-report, you would be purposefully exposing subjects to graphic sexual and potentially violent materials which is an ethics issue.I think this is a smart move (Gail Dines has talked about this too) to talk about porn as a public health issue instead of a free speech or religious issue. It should also be a human rights issue because I would like to see some meaningful conversation about whether or not a person can consent to be waterboarded which is illegal under human rights law.Technically you can't even get a double-blind study of violent porn consumption with an experimental group and a control group, regardless of the IRB. It's not like pornhub airs non-porn placebo videos.You can still do studies on self-reported porn use, though. And they have all come back pretty awful.It's not like pornhub airs non-porn placebo videos.Well, there is this one comedian...https://imgur.com/a/zD6CumwBut yeah, kidding aside, this a great point. It would have to be all based on self-report. There was that one content analysis in 2010 but I assume that was approved since the authors appear to be the ones doing the coding of aggression in porn. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20980228Ooooh, I hope they do the tax thing. There's nothing that would motivate a backlash against the border wall/Trump quite like a choorus of entitled white men who have to pay to watch women getting abused.I agree the tax would be good! Granted, it'll be difficult to figure out what to block and what not too. And VPNing thru to another location will probably still work. Then again, $20 is relatively cheap versus a VPN subscription.I'm not saying I expect the law to be useful or work. I just think the drama over it would be amazing.Most people are criminals of opportunity. If it's too difficult, they give up. Barriers like this actually work pretty well. It filters out a huge chunk of people too lazy to figure out what a VPN even is.Most porn actresses are not "stars," and yes, most of them are being abused.No, I am saying white men who want the border wall funded also watch porn stars getting abused on camera and won't want to pay for it. There are other consumers of porn, this example just doesn't concern them.How ignorant can you be?I am all for positivity, and there have been many positive threads and many discussions about how to have more positive conversations, as well. I agree that the grim news shared on here is very disheartening. For some of us, it's our reality. For example, I will not heal from my many experiences of sexual assault by pretending that violence against women doesn't exist. I do believe that most men are mostly good, however. I don't know if I am in the minority or not in thinking that, but it's pretty remarkable I believe that considering what I have been through.However, I am asking how you can so ignorant as to believe that the majority of women in pornography are there by choice. I think you should do some research before making such a statement.  Using it as a Trojan horse to fund Trump's border wall is only going to make dems more blood thirsty to reject this bill.  Bad move that makes me think they may not even care that much about the pornography aspect at all, they really just wanna get their wall lol there are some libs you could get to admit porn has problems but if you want them to admit it so you can fund the wall, their lips will remain sealed.Yes!!!They should just start sueing search engines for listing all the porn so easily.Leaving her/him to one's own devices has taken on new meaning.Legislators are dumb. It's not just a "public health crisis".   It's not "porn addiction" that is the health crisis, addiction that men have chosen.  No one has mentioned how such activity criminally abuses and harms others?  That's because we see porn as a "freely chosen" activity based on the First Amendment of "free speech", not a criminal enterprise.  The cynical would tax it to fund a favored issue.Just who the hell are these people kidding?Well the thing is, that activity (that of actual, real abuse) is already illegal.Honestly it might just be better on the whole to force the industry (that part which actually employs actors and not individual performers or artists) to create its own watchdog organization which interviews the actors involved before they do their shoot. It would increase prices sure, but profits are already through the roof.Comstockery agaaaaaiiiiiiin?It's amazing hoe much they had to do to be taken seriously.When they returned the next day with their placards, they were surprised to see dozens of churchgoers, activists and even priests, holding their own signs demanding Bishop Mulakkal be held accountable.The support these nuns got is heart warming but it's sad that it was needed.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.I am unimpressed with r/philosophy's ability to define and discuss propaganda as a systemic communicative act. They've likened propaganda to interpersonal communication. Maybe that's why affective propaganda thrives on the Internet. People don't know what it is. This just shows bad information and technical literacy. I'm sure Jacques Ellul is rolling over in his grave right about now.But.... it is Reddit after all. Forget their porn love, their definitions are so bad they should change their sub name to r/wannabephilosophers.    Thank you for replying. I am glad to hear from someone who cares about women and actually knows what they are talking about.I just quit drinking cold turkey, and I think it's affecting me. I can't stop crying about the things that have happened to me, and I am so, so angry at the men who raped me.(It's about about four days since I quit). I can't sleep and have nightmares again, and I know reading shit from the sexists on Reddit is unhealthy, but I am so, so heartbroken at the state of the world.I think one of the reasons the issues of porn and prostitution have always felt so personal to me is because the women who comprise these industries are women like me. They are "damaged women" abused in childhood funneled into these industries which are basically patriarchy in its starkest, most vile form, and sexual trauma and the sexual abuse of women writ large on the big screen and the world stage, and written off with excuses, rationalizations, justifications, and victim-blaming, just like rape in everyday life is, and it feels more and more every day like none of us will ever see any justice, and there is no hope for a better world than this, none at all.Congratulations on making this positive change for yourself.  I have heard that the first week off of alcohol is the worst.  Stay strong and dont let the bastards grind you down  Thank you! It so happens to coincide with my period. I get bad premenstrual dysphoria (I am crying as we speak), so this has made it especially hard.So far so good! I am determined not to let what has happened to me rule my life, and that means letting go of alcohol. I have decided to look for a woman-only support group to help me stick to my decision.I know... The idea that propaganda is any persuasive communication is laughable and nauseating. I had to stop reading because very few people got it right.Media literacy is so important.  Note: I was arguing with these idiots before I posted this link, so I didn't break the no-participation rule.I don't know why I'm shocked that men are so clueless and distinctly lacking in philosophical chops in r/philosophy, and why they would be such misogynists in a sub designed for thinkers; I guess there's still an innocent little part of me that thinks that men who claim to read philosophy should know better!Philosophy is by far the male version of and pathetic excuse for "introspection" and "deep thinking" (fucking lol).Imagine this: a bunch of repressed neanderthals with nothing better to do other than jerking off to porn and eating Cheetos, narcissistically and hilariously pondering their sorry fucking existence and the MeAn1nG of things while thinking of themselves as SOOO UNEEQ, so intelligent and so abstract.In reality they're unhygienic fucking neckbeards with no desire to really look at themselves and actually think about things simply because they have the intellectual capacity of a piece of cardboard, they're misogynistic garbage, and they can't see past their own shit. And surprise, they tend to gather online in circle jerks, practically jizzing in each other's mouths as they regurgitate the same shit and make the same arguments, getting nowhere and solving nothing.Males.    Edit:Someone pointed out that I should stop posting synopses of the stuff I am writing online, because someone might steal it, so I will just say: I love you ladies and a part of the trilogy I am working on (in fact, the third and most important book, and the one that came to me first) is dedicated to you.You have all been there for me so much while I have been struggling to survive as a woman in this world run by men. I wish I could meet each and every one of you I've interacted with and we could have a giant party, of the most fun kind- you know, in a place with a series of houses and cabins with a lake or the ocean out back, and nearby hills and dales and woods and forests, and lots of comfortable places to sit, outdoor and indoor fires, food and drink for every taste, art studios, sewing circles, writing workshops, jam sessions in music studios and late-night dens of iniquity alike, and at least one all-night dance party or two.I promise you all I won't forget about you! I hope at least some of us can convene someday. I feel like I know a lot of people on here so well, and you have all been so kind, and seem like such rad, diverse and interesting women.Okay...I guess that's all I have to say. <3 :)The problem with male philosophers is that they are too close minded to acknowledge female philosophers/ feminist philosophers. To male philosophers, everything is set in stone and no reasonably argument can convince them.I don't know why I'm shocked that men are so clueless and distinctly lacking in philosophical chops in r/philosophy, and why they would be such misogynists in a sub designed for thinkersFeminist philosophy isn't real philosophy, duh!tangentially related: https://np.reddit.com/r/enoughpetersonspam/comments/86tnz7/im_a_college_philosophy_professor_jordan_peterson/I masochisticly (not a word but whatever) read most of your threads and I learned a lot, so thank-you. Also I think you should definitely write a book. The way you describe things with passion, simplicity and intelligence is really wonderful.One of the more interesting comments made in the original article was that the ideal way to combat the "degrading" style of porn would be either better education in schools on what normal sex is or, and this was interesting, "pornography showing the contrary"I took this to basically mean "feminist porn". Out of curiosity I searched that on PornHub. About half of the results fell into the category of "feminist humiliation" while the other half involved the women doing the fucking using strap ons.So whether or not one agrees with the recommendation, it's pretty fair to say it hasn't really been tried yet.  That's why I said in the thread in r/philosophy to someone to look up "feminist porn," and you'll find it's the same old stuff-- S&M, misogyny, gonzo porn-- dressed up in gender-edgy clothing.There's not a lot of porn that tries to subvert the mainstream pornographic content by specifically showing loving, affectionate, mutually pleasurable sex, with some sort of storyline to ground it. I don't know if it would be especially popular and I also don't know if true intimacy is compatible with pornography, although I believe some people have tried it.My intent wasn't to say that what feminist porn is out there isn't real feminist porn, it was more to say that there isn't even any pornography out there attempting to claim it's feminist.  Oh, there is, though! There are whole companies of pornographers that claim to be feminist porn auteurs, for example.It's not readily evident then. Do you have any examples?We don't link to/recommend porn here. Try the wikipedia entry for feminist pornography.Spoiler: there isn't really any, it all harms women.  I did actually check that and articles similar. Virtually all of it is professional grade and behind paywalls.All of them stress the consent of their actors which, while I'm sure many here would say they disagree because it's either still objectifying in general or because they think the consent is because they're in financial distress, many others would say is fine. In addition there's the type of sex involved, etc.ALL porn is exploitative.  Women especially do not go into this "industry" because of "choice."  They do it out of financial desperation.There is NO "good porn."  This shit needs to be made illegal.So not to completely go full libfem, but you don't think there are ANY women that do porn that have NOT "internalized misogyny" or similar while still wanting to do the work? What about pornography where the actors involved are married? Women that choose to do it on their own where they striptease on camera without actually having sex? Drawn porn?Where do you draw the line?  I can't even bring myself to read this, but all I'll say is that this debate and the trans debate hasn't half rooted out the misogynists that permeate academic philosophy. I'm not surprised as my experience as a woman philosopher has been nothing short of appalling, and it's constant. There's certainly a lot of rhetoricians masquerading as philosophers and it's so good to see them for who and what they really are. As soon as you conduct yourself in such a way that is the antithesis to philosophical discourse and practice, you cease to have the privilege of being a philosopher irrespective of qualifications.  You should see the man I am "debating" with now. I have absolutely no formal training in philosophy, and yet easily refute every single one of his statements. He commented on a post of mine about the epidemic of rape in the United States, in which I reported my own experiences and those of my peers as well as my extensive research,  by saying that I was in an "echo chamber" and that because men could not go to a shopping mall and shout rape-supportive things at passerby, this means we do not live in a rape-supportive culture. He then wrote some word salad which entailed not understanding the meaning of cognitive dissonance and ended with some rambling about how #metoo feminism was trying to destroy the working class, and when I responded by thoroughly picking him apart he responded with yet more idiocy in which he actually called me "you people" and told me that "someone like me"--which, according to the topic of the original post, means someone who is a survivor of molestation, domestic violence, and multiple rape--is a tool of "upper-middle class feminism" whose aim is to strip rights away from working-class men (as I inferred from his use of the term "the 'patriarchal and lower classes'").Yes, this is what someone is actually trying to argue, trying to pass off as philosophy, and saying to a rape survivor, who fortunately happens to be one hundred times better at rhetoric and logic than he will ever be.It's really dismaying to see how smart this person thinks he is, though. It's actually really alarming. Is this par for the course in philosophy- men of this level of both misogyny and mediocrity?  Is he a declared (or should that be self-identified?) professional philosopher? Either way, what an insensitive, gas-lighting, self-centered dh. It looks like such a disjointed, incoherent whinge. Almost definitely a Ben Shapiro fan. Just imagine how self-centred one has to be to speak to a victim of male violence in that way, and position men as the victims of metoo, while simultaneously trying to speak for working class women (AS IF he gives a single flying fuck about that demographic)I wouldn't say it's par for the course, these types just tend to be the most forceful and vocal (empty vessels make the most noise and all that) about bludgeoning others from a position of perceived (though entirely unwarranted) intellectual and moral superiority. This is typical of an inexperienced and immature philosopher whose skills in intellectual humility, self-directed critical analysis and argumentation have some way to go (around 1st - 2nd year undergrad). And insofar as professional philosophers are like this, for every one of these chumps, there are several stellar, solid male philosophers. That said, philosophy still has a loooooong way to go - I'm only beginning to realise that insofar as feminist issues are being taken seriously in academic philosophy, it's only the softer issues like equal representation and unconscious biases that are receiving most of the attention. And even then, the male philosophers who have been most vocal about their feminist credentials are actually raging misogynists because their objective isn't to make philosophy better for women, it's to speak for women without actually having to listen to them by trying to set the parameters around what feminist issues are allowed, and which ones are not. These days all it takes to test the feminist and philosophical chops of male colleagues is to ask them to provide a definition of 'woman'. It's such a good litmus test.Edit: I've just scanned through this, and the author of the piece is someone I know recently tried to shut down GC feminists in his dept., only to later apologise for his characterisation of a GCF supporting colleague (but not for interfering with feminist philosophy). Alas, perfect example of an oh-so-feminist philosopher who's just a charlatan.And I have to say, a lot of the stuff that's coming out of American philosophy depts. on social issues like this echoes a lot of what's going on in your specific discussion (unchecked assumptions, ideologically driven mental and conceptual gymnastics to justify their personal misogyny, abandonement of philosophical principles, etc.). I've no doubt this is the direct result of the current political vortex america finds itself in (and the same applies to us here in the UK, too). Even so, it's no excuse for professional philosophers to take leave of their philosophical aptitude. This guy, I assure you, may be educated in philosophy, but he's no philosopher by way of disposition or practice.Too many men--I won't say all of them because out of 3.5 billion or so of them not all are going to be this way--are complete and total trash, full of entitlement toward women.It matters not where their politics falls.  Typically the left males are worse because they are much sneakier about their hatred for women than the right.  Men are so full of entitlement and thickheadedness, they don't even care pornography is exploiting of other people, chiefly women, to facilitate male masturbation.  Either that or they are too stupid to see it and instead prefer to dissociate from the reality of porn as human rights abuse.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Im from Maine and was in Model State and met her and she has always been like this. Shes never been pro-woman or pro-anything unless it lined her pockets. I dont think she deserves the hate from men but the hate is definitely deserved. Ive never been a fan of hers.Yeah it's possible to disagree with women without resorting to sexist attacks. Most brogressives seem to use conservative women as an excuse to unleash their misogyny ontoI feel like the shitty women receive more hate than most of the shitty men. Its bullshit. But also fuck Susan Collins and every pro-forced birth politician trying to control our bodiesPretty much sums it up for me.Patriarchy will always find women useful when we disagree with a man and defend male violence. I dislike women who accept these terms of engagement, but I save my hatred for the patriarchy itself that supervises and manipulates every thought and deed a woman does in service to its own dominance.Liberal men love a chance to call a woman a bitch - but they cant because theyre male feminists.  So theyre well chuffed with right-wing women, as they can call her a bitch for women, because theyre feminist!!!!. Like that embarrassment to the species who kicked a prolife woman in the face.Not in my name, bros, not in my name.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.I very much doubt that Ilhan Omar read this review.I very much believe the only thing Omar has read in relation to trans participation in women's sports is an opinion poll showing how many democratic voters find it woke to support trans inclusivity in everythingYou're leaving out the fact that it was probably a Twitter poll.Ayup.Ilhan Omar is just trying to come off as progressive to counteract the recent revelation that shes antisemitic AF. She ran unopposed by Republicans, she doesnt deserve her seat.Yeah because her district is heavily Somali/Muslim and located in the heart of Minneapolis. It's the epicenter of liberal everything. Republicans stand no chance at all in that district so they don't try.The district is probably only ~10% Somali at most, but the amount of outreach and effort the DFL spends mobilising the Somali community for elections is obscene. They could do so much more with those resources than just focus on one section of Minneapolis.Also, I nearly vomited in my mouth when I saw video clips of her and Keith Ellison campaigning at the local mosques while segregated by sex. You want her to be your congresswoman, but you won't even let her in the same room as you at your special clubhouse to give a speech?Boycotting musicians and artists from South Africa was an anti-apartheid tactic. BDS seems to be trying to use the same boycott strategy.how is she antisemitic?  She tweeted something about Israels evil doings that she wanted Allah to get the world to wake up and recognize. Im pretty sensitive to anti-semitism, and even I think thats really weaksauce. Theres nothing wrong with thinking the actions of Israel wrt Palestinians are beyond the pale.It wasn't just Israel's "evil doings", it was that they've "hypnotized" the world. Anything refering to Jewish people or Israel in those terms or anything implying that they have some secret control behind the scenes is a huge red flag/anti-Semitic dog whistle.I hadnt thought of that, and its a good point. Its also inaccurate since Israel isnt popular outside of the U.S. and Israel itself.She supports BDS, which makes some people jump to that conclusion.yeah i'm aware of her support of bds, but was curious if there was anything else to the story...She keeps using antisemitic dogwhistles. Theres that hypnotizing tweet from a while back, and more recently she rants about (((them))) as her enemies. She doesnt use the parentheses but she might as well. Who else would she be referring to as they?And yes, fully advocating for BDS (which includes discriminating against Israelis by virtue of their nationality) is antisemitic. Its one thing to boycott products made in occupied areas, another thing to boycott a scientist or musician from Tel Aviv.  BDS ends up being the latter a bunch of the time.i'm not on twitter, so i can't comment on either of your tweet references, but i will say...bds is not anti-semitic. boycotting individuals silently complicit with the occupation isn't jew hatred, ever. the israeli government trades on its country's cultural and scientific successes to get political immunity for the occupation, which makes the cultural and scientific institutions (and the individuals who are representing those institutions) a legitimate target for boycott.israelis who themselves divest from the government and the occupation are not targeted under the banner of bds.Do you then boycott Chinese artists and academics as well? Americans? Russians? Saudi Arabians? Everyone is complicit of the crimes of their nation.  i mean... do you? are you engaged in activism for every single issue you have an opinion on? or do you choose the issues that matter the most to you and allocate your time and resources accordingly?there is a current, ongoing political and humanitarian crisis being caused by the israeli government. people are engaging in nonviolent activism to pressure the government to end the crisis. why do you have a problem with that? or is the suffering of the palestinians only to be attended to when the rest of the world is at peace?edited to add: for the record, if there was a mass social movement to boycott american academics or musicians until our government changed one of its many devastating foreign policy initiatives, i would support that movement 100%. peoples lives are more important than (a very small portion of) other people's careers.Even the most lazy observer can see that Ilhan Omar is performing a giant virtue signal. I don't think she expects any of the anger or reasoned argument she is going to get from this attempt to be the wokest.Also this:"continues to stoke fear and violence against one of the most at-risk communities in the world"Men who believe they are women are emphatically not the most at-risk community in the world by any measure. I will give you one guess as to what that community actually is.continues to stoke fear and violence against one of the most at-risk communities in the world"Every. Damned. Time.I dont know what it will take to break this lie. Here, from a trans activist org, their worldwide account of murders of trans AND gnc people for one calender year: 369.For the entire world. Im pretty sure more people were killed by lightning.https://transrespect.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/TvT_TMM_TDoR2018_SimpleTable_EN.pdf  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Wow, even trans studies is TERFY. Block and stay safe!LOL!I guess TRAs figure it doesn't matter since doctors are abandoning their guidelines anyway, but it's interesting that WPATH hasn't been attacked for its obvious terfyness. No SRS before 18? Filthy gatekeepers!Although I guess WPATH gives TRAs cover. They can pretend that those standards are the norm when normies express concern at the sterilization of children and the railroading of profoundly mentally ill people into irreversible body mods. But, considering how irrational and short-sighted TRAs are, I can't see them letting WPATH off the hook for much longer.    Lots of great lines and quotable quotes in this piece, especially from Andrea Long Chu:It's become quite fashionable in the past twenty years to talk about queerness or blackness, and more recently transness,  in an ontological way, often in Heideggerian tones. At the same time,  it remains the case that being dumb enough to write a book about womanness  would get you bounced from all the cool academic clubs faster than you  can say intersectionality.And then this:trans studies remains a field in which two men can sit around and debate the merits of woman as a political category (Green and Bey 2017). (Spoiler alert: They have their doubts.)(Not clear if ALC puts himself in this category)Yeah, Chu thinks he's a lesbian, so... kinda like the tweet where C Clymer says "lord grant me the confidence of a mediocre white man."Right, Chu was the TIM who wrote "My New Vagina Wont Make Me Happy" for the NYT, arguing for eliminating any gatekeeping around SRS while also being overly honest about his own poor mental health. Led to quite a dust up among TIMs, many of whom felt betrayed that Chu lifted the veil on the lie that surgery is the best remedy for gender dysphoria and should be covered by insurance (it shouldn't). I guess he's useful as a contrarian critiquing TRAs from within their community, someone who is willing to undermine some of their most pernicious false narratives. But he doesn't care one bit about what his ideology means for actual women.tl;dr Go off "Andrea"! But also? Fuck off Tim.Just yesterday Clymer claimed that he doesn't understand dick pics. As if being a toxic, predatory asshole is a foreign concept to him.Just yesterday Clymer claimed that he doesn't understand dick pics. As if being a toxic, predatory asshole is a foreign concept to him.I have been trying to stay away from his twitter for my own mental health but I had to see this delusion with my own eyes"A mediocre AND UGLY white man."There's a very easy rule, if a scientific field doesn't allow inquiries into the truth, then it is no longer a science but a religion.Reminds me Talia Mae Bettcher's idiotic article on the daily nous 'when tables speak'.Where he replied to Kathleen Stock's defence of gender critical radical feminism by pounding the table and crying that he teaches gender studies and he's totally an expert and how dare some uppity woman disagree with him.The fact that this sort of bullshit is tolerated doesn't just demote trans studies from the status of science. It demotes it from being academic at all.Link: http://dailynous.com/2018/05/30/tables-speak-existence-trans-philosophy-guest-talia-mae-bettcher/When discourse or dissenting opinions are prohibited, can something really be called "scholarly?">  Moral judgements about body modification run rampant in queer and trans  studies, all in the name of antinormativity politics. It's really sort  of incredible to me, the vitriol that queer theorists have for  phalloplasty.Not incredible if you understand sexism.Shocking to see someone straight up admitting that adherence to the ideology is more important than people's lives.As White (2000: 8) argues, histories told as satires gain their effects precisely by frustrating normal expectations about the kinds of resolutions provided by stories cast in other modes. This is our task, to write a trans satire.Good news, Trans Studies academics: everything you write and say is already indistinguishable from satire! Your work is done.Trans studies' political optimism has been grounded in the figure of the posttranssexual. Trans studies has been largely shaped by The Empire Strikes Back: A Posttranssexual Manifesto (1991), in which Sandy Stone tells a story about the university-based gender clinics and the development of a differential diagnosis (gender identity disorder). In Stone's version of the story, patients desperate to sneak past the medical gatekeepers, would rehearse and perform a false or inauthentic record of their lives in order to qualify for sex-reassignment surgery. They would circulate among themselves copies of Harry Benjamin's The Transsexual Phenomenon in order to know what to tell the doctors in their intake interviews. Stone tells this story in order to highlight the rehearsed nature of trans self-narrativizing and autobiography and in doing so she gestures to questions of authenticity.But, when parents in the ROGD study said their kids were doing this to obtain a diagnosis, no one listened.You think they want to hear from cisgendered heterosexual people?  Parents are cancelledOne great thing about being old, is I was able to raise my kids in simpler times.  The internet was so clunky then that they tried going on it once and decided they didn't like it.  Can't imagine trying to raise a kid with smartphones and social media. Can't imagine people thinking what was going on with my kids was none of my business.Ha! People can kiss my ass if they try to tell me any such thing.  I respect my kids privacy....to an extent.  There is a direct correlation between maturity level and how much privacy i will give you.  I think (i hope) my kids understand this.  Their actions and behavior determine how much i interfere in their lives as they grow up."Cisgendered" is a bunch of trans cult bullshit and means nothing... stop using trans cult nuspeak here.....I was trying to say it how I imagined they said it when dismissing the parents concerns.  Guess I should have put a "/s" at the endThis is why Queer Theory doesnt work. At some point queering becomes the norm and the institution and then what?Then you Queer Queerness... we'll all be back in the dark ages soon enough..Also, What cis scholar is going to intervene and say, Hey, I think we have this concept of dysphoria all wrong? That's just not going to happen.Well, when people disagree with trans dogma they lose their jobs so"Trans studies."  Now I've heard of everything.  The only "studies" should be among mental health professionals.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Which is why trans identified men hate drag too. Because it IS "woman face" and therefore invalidates their identities, because if men can dress up as women but still be men then what does their dressing up mean?They're just mad because drag queens are better at the lady face act than them. It's just males being jealous of other males.Actually, it's just straight Venus Envy. They all try to tuck their genitals back or chop it off cause they want what we have.Well yeah but their specific hate for drag queens is about them being able to appear more feminine than them without claiming to be female. Also drag queens are more "celebrated" than TIMs.ContraPoints was and still is super into drag but he's also the textbook definition of an autogynephileHe molested a cardboard cutout of a professor he didn't like and depicts himself sexually harassing TERFs (whome he also pretends to be).But the fact that he does all this to funky music with high production values under the guise of entertainment makes it okay.TIMs have tried to get drag queens bounced from a few pride events in the past.Which is rich considering the involvement of drag queens in Stonewall. I guess if you rebrand them as not drag queens it's OK though...Search r/atg for the word "drag" and you'll find a few long threads discussing it.um. Did you mean that subreddit?r/asktransgenderI have a friend who, upon coming out as trans, suddenly decided drag was offensive. We used to watch Drag Race together and she even performed drag.Read the sidebar if you'd like to continue posting in this sub.It's a cute nickname if you ask me. I'm stealing it.They're very obviously giving the mods the middle finger and bypassing a rule we've had since day one.  Hey, thanks for the heads up. New code installed to catch thisWhich rule?You should be if it's not necessary. Otherwise that's like textbook being an assholeOnce got into a debate wirh a libfem who thought it was okay for drag queens to use misogynistic terms like "fishy" because they were ~reclaiming~ it as if someone with a PENIS can reclaim a slur for VAGINAS. Why don't we have straight guys reclaim the f word, white people reclaim the n-word, etc.This reminds me of Clerks 2 where Randall tries to reclaim "porch monkey" and gets verbally assaulted by Wanda Sykes.I knew a woman who would police other women's language for any signs of "white feminism" - but she was okay with a white gay man we knew saying that he had a "sassy black woman!" inside him. That was perfectly okay in her mind, even when he would go into character mode. Why? Because he was "honoring" black women.Well, he's a man though!  Silly.  XPWomen appropriate, men honourGay and trans identified males know exactly what they're doing and even how to make you feel crazy and stupid for noticing it. Imagine the hissy fits if lesbians and bi women dressed as gay caricatures and mocked them.Imagine the hissy fits if lesbians and bi women dressed as gay caricatures and mocked them.Not exactly what you are saying, but butch lesbians dragging as macho men is akin to femme gay men dragging as femme women is the same. That's an equivalent comparison.I can't imagine any lesbian wanting to dress like a feminine gay man.But it's not.  The oppressed group (women) dressing as oppressors (men) is not offensive in the same way... it's an economically rational behavior.  There's no "whiteface" equivalent for black people.Well, there was that stupid sitcom in the 80s/90s where the black child star acted "white and nerdy," and that was the comedic premise of the show.And there's a female artist who paints a lot of portraits of African-Americans in whiteface, which I thought was pretty powerful, but when she had an invited show in Raleigh the social justice warriors were out in force deriding her, which I thought outrageous. Her whole point was to call attention to racial stereotypes and expectations, but because she was white and painting Black subjects she was lazily accused of being racist (not by the Black artist who had in fact invited her to show.)You described the difference between punching up and punching down. Typically when discussing social issues you want to say that both are bad.In this case, when the sexes are eventually equal, would you agree that it would be offensive?But here's the problem, men are at a higher station than women. With this in mind, drag for men becomes another tile in the mosaic of males bonding over female subjugation.Here's an article from 2011 (so long ago....) discussing the same thing. It's interesting that back when blackface was still being performed, it was defended with the same arguments used to defend drag: that it was a loving tribute, that it was an homage, that it was all in fun, no harm intended.The article is on point.I was amused that the website has a footer banner saying it is "supported by the pritzker foundation." Although I suppose it is in TiMs best interests to discourage drag.in blackface African-Americans were shown singing, or dancing, or being foolish, or longing for the old plantation, in drag women are shown nagging, or domineering, or primping, or longing for male protection. Each form even has two insulting types. Blackface offers Zip Coon (an urban dandy out of his depth) and Sambo (a shuffling rural fool), the first making fun of black people for being free and the second for being slaves. Drag presents the Glamor Girl and the Pantomime Dame, the first making fun of women for our sexuality and the second for our lack of it.Even men who intend their performance as a tribute to women are claiming, accidentally-on-purpose, the continued right to show women how were expected to act. The original exponents of blackface intended their work as an homage to the unique folk culture of African-Americans, but that intention couldnt protect the practice from the reasonable objection that one cant honor people by stealing from them, and that imitation is the sincerest form of mockery.Fuck yeah!Boy, I sure wish some of the people in these comments would read that. Because apparently blackface was always offensive, whereas drag is just the artistic emotional expression of men who are tasked with the heavy burden of masculinity and can't cope with all their manly responsibilities and trousers.Because blackface is offensive to black men, whereas drag is offensive to zero men. So we should just shut up because ZOMG WOMEN ARE SO SENSITIVE, CAN'T THEY TAKE A JOKE?!?!Yeah I always have that issue with drag. Dudes in dresses and makeup? All the power's the them! But dudes pretend-playing exaggerated caricatures of femininity? Not sure what their goals are, but drag acts don't seem at all critical or thoughtful. More like a game. Yet sex roles aren't remotely "a game" to most of us.No. Misogyny is just so accepted and ingrained no one gives af  The oppressed group (women) dressing as the oppressors (men) is absolutely different than the opposite. edit to add: this is why Rachel Dolezal is offensive but a black person passing as white is acceptable and rational, even if its sad/abhorrent that it is easier to be white than black.Here's a difference. I've never been to any drag shows of any kind, never seen anyone in drag IRL. Never seen a drag king in my life, anywhere, have no idea what they do. But I've seen drag queens since forever. RuPaul's Drag Race is popular mainstream entertainment, with millions and millions of viewers. Why is there no equivalent for drag king's, if they are the same? Where's their show, where is a movie starring them? It seems like people just must not find them as entertaining, in general. So what is inherently funnier about a man dressing as a gross caricature of a woman?And... Sexual arousal? Really? Seems like if that was the point of drag, they'd have to move RuPaul over to HBO.  Lesbian erasure, what?? No, I'm only pointing out that one is mainstream and easily encountered by anyone and the other is not.  No need to have a fit, Jesus.Right, because there isn't anything sexually arousing on regular cableNot really, no. Titillating, sure. Sexually arousing implies people are sitting around jerking off to it. Maybe someone is, but I really doubt that's how the majority are watching it.RuPaul is mainstream because of fag hags.Wow, TIL half the straight dudes at my work are "fag hags".Edit for formattingOMG, get a grip and stop putting words in my mouth.Lol or at least use terms correctly. "Lesbian erasure" doesn't mean what you think it means.There's no stereotype all men are grouped under to mock. Privilege of being the oppressor classI find drag queens reading story time to kids at libraries really weird.  What grown man wants to dress up as a hypersexualized woman to read to strangers' kids?  I KNOW. Ive been complaining about this for years and people always look at me like Im crazy lol but its blatantly offensive. Men get to put on makes and wigs and have fun pretending to be women, but then they get to take it off and leave the club and walk home without fearing for their safety. Its like they think my whole life and reality is a fun sexy costume and I dont understand why more women arent pissed about it.I've been all over (using a pseudonym) mainstream news sites making the point that yes, blackface by white people is/was offensive, but it's certainly not a criminal act, like that the Lt. Gov of Virginia was accused of.But you'd think, the way the MSM frame it, that wearing blackface is as violent as actually RAPING WOMEN.No, the sexist equivalent to blackface is dressing in drag and mocking women, or, making degrading comments about women in a yearbook 35 years ago.The equivalent to raping a woman would be assaulting a black person because of their race.My vote for the worst racism in the 1980s on college campuses was how black women could be raped with near impunity by men of all races because they weren't believed or else they knew that reporting a black man would bring the weight of unjust law enforcement onto another black person (and the rage of her own community onto her head.) But NOOO--we have to focus on a bunch of stupid frat photos instead of talking about s*it that would actually threaten people.It can be, but usually isnt. Some drag is good for underscoring the ridiculousness of gendered behavior and showing that gender truly is just a costume.A lot of drag, especially with the younger performers, is just guys trying to look as much like porn stars or sex dolls as possible. Its reinforcing stereotypes instead of undermining them.I like genderfuck drag that doesnt take itself seriously and admits its just a costume and actually has a bit of thought and a sense of gay history behind it.Instagram porn drag is blah.I really like the instagram drag like @isshehungry that is not really occupied with human dimorphism and gender roles but is more on the whimsical, weird and non-human side of "I am a dangerous insect!" - without going into annoying male default territory.I will have to check that out. :)I was thinking more of the men who just pose for porn style pinups and dont actually have any sort of performance or critique. Maybe calling them Instagram drag is unfair.Totally agree. If there's no performance, it's not drag. It's a cross dresser.Yeah, sorry, I got what you mean, my comment was a bit poorly connected to what you said, I wanted to point out that instagram also has interesting stuff besides the porn. I really agreed with your point that drag can be freeing because when it succeeds it shows the made-ness of gender and that -by men doing it- anybody can dress in all manners or behave in certain ways (that by conservatives get inscribed into the biology of women) - there's a distance in the parody that allows for recognition and reflection and that allows you to change things.No it's not https://www.feministcurrent.com/2014/04/25/why-has-drag-escaped-critique-from-feminists-and-the-lgbtq-community/To me it seems equivalent to cultural appropriation or the way in which white people have mocked black people, Asian people, Indigenous people, and pretty much every other race/ethnicity that isnt theirs, under the guise of performance or satire. Why is it cute or funny or entertaining for men to mock women via drag? Why is it not considered to be a form of cultural appropriation, but with regard to gender? Why have progressives and mainstream feminists avoided critique of these performances, in large part?Men aren't the ones who should be mocking gender especially the feminine, they are having fun mocking women not helping us to destroy patriarchy.Also it has its roots  in elizabethan theatre when women weren't allowed to act and were replaced by men creating the caricatures that they maintain alive today, it's part of women subjugation and oppression it does not contribute to our liberation despite the gaslight of gay men with the help of handmaidensThank you. Im really taken aback by a lot of the responses here.People are loathe to critically examine things they like. It's like when we discuss makeup here, or when we confront men about porn. If they like it, they typically will outright refuse to critique it.Women that refuse to critique drag are no different.I wish I could understand why I like drag so much, but I'm fine with people critiquing it and calling it misogynistic because it is.I mostly just watch Rupaul's Drag Race, which was an escape for me in a really difficult time in my life.I also have a difficult time with my relationship to femininity, I sometimes enjoy make up, and I used it as a mask for a while. Perhaps I identify with the 'characters' they create, because of my wish to be the perfect woman, one unaffected by patriarchy who can say whatever they want without fear of looking unladylike while looking fuckable and beautiful the way we're meant to.And being a lesbian, trying to fit in with mainstream gay culture is easier because lesbian culture doesn't seem to exist as much anymore it has been absorbed by 'queer' culture who have taken our unapologetic political approach but have applied it to trans people instead.That's perhaps a weirder analysis, but I think those are the reasons why I like it.You always have something thoughtful and measured to add to discussions PT, thank you so much. More nuance than in my own comments.I find drag annoying but I don't take it as a serious threat to women's rights and spaces.Yeah i feel that its evolved into its own form of a feminine theater that really has almost nothing to do with women. Its a space for gay men. I would be curious to hear from drag artists if they think its misogynistic at all.How do you feel about Blackface?Well black face isn't actually a serious threat to civil rights. It's disgustingly racist and should be condemned but there are way worse things like the right wing suppression and gutting of the voting rights act. Mass incarceration and poverty are all bigger problems to the black community than black face. I assume the poster meant similarlyReally? They seem reasonably comparable.But why? I dont think drag has to be bad by definition, but in its current state its just peak gay male acceptable misogyny. From reading your other comment, is your point that the struggles of black people (men) are worse than the struggles that non-black women face? (Obviously wed have to ignore black women to make that argument.) Im not trying to put words in your mouth, Im honestly asking because I dont understand why you think theyre incomparable.I wasnt trying to leave out black women, Im saying that I thought you were? Because youre saying that black men going through racism is incomparably worse than sexism, which puts black women on equal footing with black men, which I think its ridiculous and unfair.Yep Im white too? I might be misunderstanding the too but if youre implying that Im white just because Im disagreeing with you, youre wrong and I dont like the lazy white feminism! accusation.What am I reflecting on? Youve given me nothing to think about. You keep throwing out a bunch of accusations without backing any of them up. Youre insulting me only because I asked you to explain yourself and corrected your assumptions. Im not even offended because Im just so baffled by you, I really cant make sense of half of what youre going on about lmao.And I just told you Im not white and you, a white woman, call me a trumpist fem-tard.  And not that you knew, but youll be happy to know that you get bonus points for using tard against autistic person lmaoThis shit ain't worth it.I didn't want to go there but I swear it's only white radfems that make that type of comparison. I have yet to see a black woman say that drag is the same as blackface.Same here. To be honest it makes me a little uncomfortable, or at the very least I don't really think it's a comparison that white people should be initiating.I agree. I wonder if any of the white radfems who make that type of comparison have spoken to any black women in depth about it or asked for their opinion.How so?That's an interesting one. A lot of older women in my life hate drag for exactly this reason, whereas I love it. But I'm not going to do that libfem thing where everything I love is feminist, because no it's not. It started with gay men dressing in 'women's clothing' as protection which became a sort of art form in itself.Lesbians did the same thing, but feminists did the hard work of making pants acceptable for women to wear in public, and men don't want to do the same work for dresses and skirts and make up.Drag queens can definitely be misogynistic, and some of the jokes they use (looking like a woman is called being 'fishy', the frequent use of the word cunt, and talking about how gross vaginas are) definitely come into that category.I suppose I love it because it's a big theatrical spectacle and as a lesbian I like being in spaces where I probably won't get hit on by guys. It's complicatedIt started with gay men dressing in 'women's clothing' as protection which became a sort of art form in itself.Um, what?I suppose I love it because it's a big theatrical spectacle and as a lesbian I like being in spaces where I probably won't get hit on by guys.Oh well as long as its a fun spectacle for you and you feel safe I guess its okay.  /sWell, I guess I should do more research, but I assumed that part of it was protective.I never said it was okay. If you read my comment, I said I liked it despite knowing it's misogynistic.Nope. Thats what it is.I've always been uncomfortable with drag tbhAside from the sexist stereotypes involved, at least dudes in drag know theyre still dudes playing dress up and not real women.That's why the TIMs hate itIt is as offensive as black face for the same reasons. Women are allowed to be targets so were supposed to laugh along.That is exactly what it is.I have been making this point on and off - the old-fashioned, balloons in tops and garish makeup are definitely eerily similar to black face in not good ways.Not quite as "bad" given the different genesis and the history of blackface, but pretty darn close.I used to be pro-drag until I watched a season of RuPauls Drag Race.  There were a few characters I loved, who did not seem misogynist at all.  (Jinkx Monsoon lol). But most of the men, when in character, seemed to be the worst stereotype of a bimbo.  They called each other bitch, talked about being "fishy" or feminine, and gossiped and acted like fools.  Most of them didn't even make jokes or have a sense of humor, which I thought was the point of drag.  No, they called themselves "pageant girls", and the point seemed to be to do womanhood better than actual women.  If I dressed up like the "pageant girls", no one would find it clever or entertaining.  I do think many drag artists are doing it in good faith, but in general, I find it very misogynistic.That's not what being a pageant girl means: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Drag_pageantryI also really liked Jinkx! It's really telling that Jinkx was considered an outsider by the other guys. They bullied the shit outta him just because he didn't want to be nasty and gossipy, and because his style was pretty unusual/unique because it had a lot of old fashioned elements.Jinkx seemed very kind and sensitive, and it was terrible watching them tear him apart. I'm so, so glad he won. He really deserved it.His Little Edie was killer. Fun Fact: Jinkx identifies as non-binary and has a trans partner!Are we allowed to watch Tootsie, La Cage aux Folles/The Birdcage, Some Like It Hot and/or the video of "I Want To Break Free" by Queen?The Year of Living Dangerously?I have always felt this way from a young age. Drag is men thinking they can be better women than women, and also making fun of us. I have a gay male friend who finds drage a freeing experience, but I don't get it.I've always struggled with certain kinds of drag that clearly seemed to be mocking women.But I'm not really sure how to respond to it because it's so inextricably linked with gay men's performance around their own past oppressions. So it's not for me to unilaterally decry it.I don't think gay men should get a pass to mock women just because they were victimised by straight men.Gay men (and women) are victimized and oppressed by all heterosexuals, not just straight men.I don't see anything wrong with it. Blackface has a historical and racist background, drag was once a progressive form of art and to some extend it still is IMO. Not comparable." Modern drag shows do the exact same thing with gender. They exaggerate the physical features associated with women, and embrace and reproduce harmful stereotype associated with womanhood; namely that women are dumb fuckable objects that exist for our entertainment. "Again I don't see it like that. Dragqueens are men dressed-up in "feminine clothing" covered in makeup and don't let anyone in doubt about they being men nevertheless. Yes, the shows are often over the top with a lot of feminine cliche in it but in general they crash genderstereotypes and for me this is a good thing.They don't ask for access to the women's toilet or locker-room just because they are dressed-up like women. Transgenders on the other hand...drag was once a progressive form of art and to some extend it still is IMO.According to gay men, and those who agree with them. But whether it is or ever was progressive is the very question being discussed here, it is not a given. It isn't up to gay men whether performing as female caricatures is "progressive", it is up to women. Just because it was subversive relative to straight patriarchal culture doesn't mean it was automatically progressive regarding women.Dragqueens are men dressed-up in "feminine clothing" covered in makeup and don't let anyone in doubt about they being men neverthelessThis is completely analogous to blackface. Was anyone in blackface ever genuinely claiming to be black? No, their being white people 'dressed up as black' was the whole point, same as drag.They don't ask for access to the women's toilet or locker-room just because they are dressed-up like women. Transgenders on the other hand...Blackface performers certainly weren't in favor in integrated spaces. Yes it's bad that trans activists are demanding female space access, but drag performers not doing it doesn't have any bearing on the progressiveness of what they're doing in general, any more than you could say it was a point in favor of blackface wearers.Nah sorry. Blackface was and is a weapon of discrimination and racial hate. This has nothing to do with drag. The gay men used drag to break out of social conventions, as a form of art and to celebrate their own "feminine side". Lots of gay men admire the (often elderly) diva type of women and celebrate them in their shows. They are not dragqueens out of misogyny, the opposite in many cases. Probably some performers are misogynistic but not the majority.Blackface on the other hand was pure hate and white supremacy and I really don't understand why this is brought up here.The same argument (admiration) is used by the Dutch to defend modern day depictions of Zwarte Piet.  I really agree with the person you are responding to... something can be progressive for one group while actively hurting another group (see self-ID).Blackface and Zwarte Piet result out of different "traditions" but both are based on white supremacy.Drag has historically very different roots and is not based on/a result of misogyny.I am not a fan of this term but mixing drag and blackface up as equally bad is really something I would consider "white feminism". Way out of proportion.I don't understand how a group of men dressing and acting as caricatures/stereotypes of women could in any way not be due to misogyny.  No matter what the roots or original intentions are, the result is the exact same.I think it's quite telling that you dismiss women's complaints so easily. Yet again we're told it's a joke and to not take it seriously.Because the oppression of white women is so much less important than any oppression that includes men too.Drag comes from a misogynistic culture, but you are certain it's completely unrelated to it.Yes, I see it as a form of art and things like the Rocky Horror Picture Show come into my mind. Maybe there are dragqueens who make a mockery out of women I am not denying this but in general drag is in my eyes about breaking conservative gender cliches and entertainment. So I have no problem with it. And it isn't historically rooted in misogyny like blackface in racism for example so I simply don't see the similarities.I am very sensitive towards the oppression of women, be it white women or WOC doesn't matter. But drag is in my opinion a very eccentric niche and not part of it.Softcoreporn on Instagram, every second music video and many many other things, deeply rooted and accepted in our culture, are based on misogyny and women's objectification and oppression but drag? I can only speak for myself but I think no.It's historically rooted in misogyny. It came about as a result of women not being allowed in theater.Blackface started out as an homage to black culture. Maybe read a history book before you make these wild, inaccurate claims.Blackface did not start as a homage to black culture. So maybe you should follow your own advice. And women not being allowed in the theatre has no straight connection to drag.Maybe some people here should get their hatred for gay men in check instead of exploiting blackface.Yes, I see it as a form of artSo did a lot of the minstrel performers, traditionally see their shows as a form of "art"things like the Rocky Horror Picture Show come into my mind.You don't see that as misogynist?And it isn't historically rooted in misogynyHow could it be rooted in anything else?I think drag makes fun of gender. Some drag performers are most sexist than others, since theyre men, but the act itself is not inherently negative. Thats like saying acting it oppressive - the whole idea is to perform like someone youre not. How well you do at that and what the crowd approves of is, of course, part of the larger social power dynamics. And the performers - like the vaudeville actors in blackface - are often exaggerated package of stereotypes. But in a sense I say the same about women in women-face - we are all performing gender whether we like or not and sometimes people add very offensive elements to it.the idea is that drag queens are harmful caricatures of women. It's not inherently wrong for men to wear skirts. But crude caricatures of how women dress and act are not any less offensive than any other stereotype-ridden caricature that we've socially agreed on as being harmful and offensive.Oooooh I've never thought of it that way. Very interesting!  I think it depends on the act and what is being expressed, just like with stand-up comedy and other performances. I've seen drag that is a subversive and playful exploration of different ideas and personas (mostly grandiose ones) that can reveal things through parody and drag that is kicking downwards and mocking. Most of the time the performers are clear on playing a role, for me it goes into weird/cringe territory when trans ideas come into it, and it's suddenly about essence and being instead of imitation and play. (Interesting aside: I recall that Ru Paul was accused of being transphobic when he wouldn't let TiM compete when actually it was rather that he was pro trans and sexist because he accepted that TiMs are women and wanted to exclude women from drag.) I think an important difference to minstrel shows is (though I'm not from the USA and not that familiar with them) that with them you had wealthier, white people laughing at caricatures of poor black people to preserve their power over them. Most drag queens imitate "divas" and - as the name says - "queens", so a very specific group of women that are rich and powerful.  No, not at all. If were going to have the idea that men should be able to wear dresses and still be men, then drag is great. I dont see it as offensive at all, It should be aligned with the philosophy of this subreddit. I think you are misinterpreting if you think they are making fun of women, really they are just having fun breaking out of the gender boxes for a night.I would accept this if they didn't adopt an exaggerated "female" persona as soon as the makeup and dress comes on. There is no tearing down of gender boxes, on the contrary.It'd be a completely different subject if they simply dressed how they pleased but kept their name, their mannerisms, instead.Never known anyone as bitchy as a man in drag. Which of course is the ultimate in Woman Personality <eyeroll>except they only wear dresses when they want to parody women. they don't wear them to work or anythingi agree, honestly most performers don't seem to "act a caricature of a woman" to me, they are just themselves with a wig and make up on, telling jokes or lipsyncing or singing, and they don't hide it. i've always seen it as an expression of gender noncomformity and nothing else. they call themselves men and don't expect to be treated as women or claim to know what being a woman feels like, and the culture around it can definitely be misogynistic, but that's not specific to drag itself, it's just like how it is everywhere. in itself, it's neutral, and a lot of performers can simply be appreciated from an artistic point of view.A lot of gay male behaviours are misogynisticexactly, so it's not a drag specific problem, as a practice itself it's neutral, but drag queens' behavior as individuals can definitely be misogynistic in a lot of ways lolI would point out that a lot of them dont just act like caricature of women, but caricatures of black and Latina women.Men in drag get a lot of passes that women dont. If a drag queen snatched a wig literally, its amusing and fierce, when a black woman does it, its ghetto.There was a time when it was harmless, but considering that women emulate and want to be like drag queens its a bit of a social contagion now. Misogyny aside, its hypersexualized and vapidly materialistic. While its fine if you like watching it as entertainment and perhaps it does have its place in promoting GNC, its not without its myriad of problems.You can't possibly be serious.It's so clearly misogyny. Yes, males and women performing and being gender non-conforming I can get behind. But these males are putting on gigantic fake breasts and become catty, annoying stereotypes of women. Drag culture is seeping with a hatred of women and it is definitely very similar to black face especially when you see how similar defenses for blackface and drag are the same. "Oh it's just for fun! We are celebrating black people/women!"Honestly, I like the costumes and fashion of drag in the same way I like looking at high end fashion. Both are problematic for different reasons.However I like the wigs and the makeup.I like songs and people expressing themselves.I don't like all the personas but I like the creative expressions. If there were more and different personas that would be good.I mean I also like Venus de Milo as a drag queen, and she's a woman.I like lady Gaga's costumes.I like dress up.So there is seld expression. The drag shows I have been to, a lot of the performers talk about struggles of being gay and kicked out. None of this "fishy" business.If someone wants to do costume karaoke or lip synching, I'm cool with it.So I think it is forced femininity face, not women face. I want to laugh along.I am just waiting for drag kings to start fake wars and while accusing the drag queens of violence.Aw I thought this sub would be okay with drag cause its basically over the top laughing at gender stereotypes for both drag kings and queens, which is fun. Its also usually performed at night in the club scene. Thought drag would be much more palatable for this sub as opposed to someone who genuinely believes they are the gender and try all day to be passable. Ones a game everyones in on and the other is a game no one is in on kinda thing. Maybe Im just ranting.The sub isnt a monolith. I was firmly pro-drag when I joined but some of the arguments here have allowed me to look at it more critically and admit that there is an undercurrent of misogyny involved. Its a good thing to read opinions you dont agree with for this reason :)Undercurrent is an understatement in the drag shows I've witnessed.This sub has done a lot to open my mind and it closes my mind in some ways so its a tough line to walk but its always worth it:)I just really enjoy watching a local drag show to see both men and women dress up in ridiculous outfits and put on entertaining shows.  And since I watch drag kings and queens play the gender fuck game, I dont see the underlying misogyny. If I spent my time on Instagram looking at drag queen makeup, maybe I would have a different, maybe more critical view of it.Yeah, this is one of the topics I disagree with when it comes to radfeminism even if I understand the criticism and freely acknowledge gay men can be every bit misogynistic as straight men.Oh yessss I completely agree that both gay and straight men can be misogynistic. Thanks for your input, appreciate knowing Im not the only one thinking this way :)And blackface is over the top laughing at racial stereotypes. I think you are underestimating the amount of woman hating involved in drag-- but correctly estimating the amount of black hating involved in blackface. It's an issue of consciousness.Oh and the unfortunate mix of racism within the drag community is also an issueI have a problem with men pretending to be women so they can have an evening of misogynistic shits and giggles and then all it takes is one good face wash/change of clothes and the next morning its off to reap all the male privilege they believe theyre entitled to!I completely agree about the male privilege. In my experience, when I go to a local drag bar its usually gay people of colour in drag taking dollar bills from rich white straight girls on a bachelorette party, so its all relative.Drag shouldn't be immune from criticism, no. Have you considered how you feel about drag kings? I know this seems like a silly topic for a phd thesis but I know of at least one person who has written a thesis on the cultural/musical significance drag queen lip syncing lol. So I'm sure there are some academic papers on the topic that might help answer your questions.I do see what you mean. In Australia the football teams dress up as women for their end of season party, and it is exactly what you describe. I suspect however there is more to drag within the gay culture. What that is exactly, I'm not sure, but I think the academic papers may shed some light on what is has to do with gayness, if you know what I mean.edit: Also I've never seen that Ru Paul show, only drag shows at gay clubs. So that is the limited level of familiarity I'm coming from.I'm not sure what you are talking about, that there is more to drag in gay culture. I'm just wondering because while I only have known one guy seriously into drag and one is a terrible sample size, this guy was hetero and stereo typically male at every other time of the day and I found him MORE sexist than most guys. He also talked to me like he was so woke and knows everything about women thanks to being into drag but again, he was really sexist, even when talking about how he claims to know so much about women. And he was very ignorant of the problems gay men and women face while pretending he gave a crap.Straight men putting on dresses in a madlad way is different from drag. Straight men using gay ideation as a bonding exercise is another interesting conversation. There was an interesting askreddit thread about gay behavior as bonding in the armed forces a while back. Its maybe a mix of showing youre super straight and masculine because you can snog your mate without it casting any doubts on your hetero manly credentials? Or maybe men are just touch and affection starved and theres more judgement placed on men with bi tendencies by their fellow men? Drag has a lot of history in gay culture. Even in Victorian Times the gay parties broken up by the police featured men crossdressing. When homosexuality was considered an illness you can see why the not a real man narrative entered the code and was actually adopted and woven into gay culture.Then you have ball culture which was an aspirational and subversive commentary of American high society.I think its overly simplistic to say its just an offensive parody of womanhood, although 90% of it is these days. Theres a long history of men and women using crossdressing to express homosexuality.Personally I have no issues with drag. I see it as intended to ridicule the expected norm by overemphasising those things. Its not a caricature of womanhood, or manhood, its a caricature of societal expectations of those things. The same things drag queens emphasise and play out are the exact things we complain of being expected of women, so how can we argue that its offensive to us when the things they do have literally nothing to do with us as a whole.By using female slurs like "bitch"? How about "Fish"?Yes, so clever to call female genitals stinky fish "fish" is actually in reference to the common english phrase "fishy" as in the person looks the part to such an extent as to warrant doubt. I have had this origin confirmed by no less than 10 eldergay drag queens. Every time I bring it up I'm downvoted (doesn't change the facts, though), so I kinda feel like this "new," conveniently offense "fish = smell" origin story is sticking more than the real one, but I'll keep at it!Ive seen the casual bitch stuff, again exaggerating the whole persona thing (and most people use bitch pretty casually now, more intended as a low level joking insult in groups Ive seen, or using it for impact) but not the other thing, not in any of the shows Ive seen.Just because a sexist slur is commonplace, doesn't mean it's okay.I wasnt saying its ok, though the vast majority of people now wouldnt consider it a sexist slur because language is picked up from parents and peers and the intention behind a word is important, and meanings evolve. When someone calls a person a bitch theyre not saying that theyre a female dog, and theyre not saying theyre a woman with high sexual desire. Often, in context, in drag its not being used as an insult at all. The main point, anyway, is its not an intrinsic part of drag and I was talking about the intentions behind that act. The use of these sorts of words by some performers wasnt relevant to what I was saying, because theyre often not even using the words because theyre in drag, but more because the gay community use it a great deal.What about mocking female privates? Like "fish", which is a disgusting, revolting term for our genitals, that is used by all males starting at around agre 12 (we've all heard the vile "jokes" starting in middle school...) it's not just "bitch" either... it's "whore, slut", etc, so IMO using sexist slurs aren't expressive, it's Misogynistic. Why go there at all?I really don't buy that bitch has evolved... it's still used to target women who stick up for themselves. It's still used by men to mock other men, when they want to use an insult that compares them to what they consider,  a lesser, weaker human being -- women.I'd be more impressed if they were acting like typical men wearing feminine clothing... that would be revolutionary. Instead they are using Misogynistic stereotypes for laughs. Mocking the very weight (femininity) used to continue our oppression.I don't think being gay is an excuse either.As I just said Ive not witnessed the fish thing (never heard it used as a term for the vulva/vagina, only heard it referenced as a potential smell by girls themselves as a joke - though its not untrue in the case where someone has BV), and since we were talking about drag I havent seen it there. So Im not going to take issue with drag based on a few members of that community being assholes.And I wasnt saying being gay was an excuse, my point was that in the cases where Ive heard bitch used it hasnt been as an insult, more an endearing term. Youre getting into a whole other area talking about stupid kids at school.Yeah men wearing feminine clothing is fine, but I dont have an issue with drag on both sides attacking the stereotypes that exist. Drag generally isnt done for laughs, it has always been more of a performance when Ive witnessed it. Usually any humour revolves around the intense discomfort involved with tucking.Hear hear.Oh no.. I used to have so much fun at drag shows... Look at you radfems taking my ignorance away left and right. Damn kill-joy women-lovers! <3yes, it sucks to look at the world differently. I totally get where you're coming from. Some of my formerly favorite popular culture is not enjoyable in the same way.Feminist kill joy.  I mean it's true though isn't it? Feminism kind of does kill our joy.  But that's only because our joy is of misogynistic and patriarchal things.  We just need to replace those with better things, then we won't need to worry about loss of joy any more :)Cute T-shirthttps://www.cafepress.com/sorryfeminismruinssexistjokesOne should be careful to not slip into bigotry thoughI do get what point you are trying to make, but comparing drag to blackface is ridiculous and shit like this is why we are laughed at and not taken seriously. How can we have a serious conversation about women's rights if we are comparing ourselves to black americans? COME ON!I don't get this argument at all. Are black women not also women who can be parodied in drag as well as blackface? Why should they be treated as two separate things?Furthermore, misogyny is a timeless issue that transcends race completely; every culture on earth has had to deal with it in one way or another.Two vastly different things with different connotations.The black woman experience is not comparable to that of the white woman.And, sure, while every woman has to deal with misogyny in one way or another, the treatment of black women is historically much worse than that of white women.Do not attempt to minimize the black experience, particularly the black woman experience just because misogyny is everywhere.As feminists intersectionality matters. Being willingly oblivious to the way race ties to specific misogynistic treatment in our culture is something that needs remediating.You're not really arguing the point about why drag isn't misogynistic or comparable to blackface; you're just saying that it isn't purely because you think blackface worse. I'm also not comparing the experience of white women to black women. You're making a counterargument to a point that I haven't made.This is the same argument I used to have with people who didn't think the gay rights movement (particularly the fight for legal marriage) was legitimate because African Americans were still being discriminated against.  mf thank you!Yuuuup! Comparing terrible experiences to the black experience is always a far reach and an almost always, if not entirely, white thing to do.Exactly!  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.  These sort of articles always presume women are acting irrationally when we don't unapologetically demand a promotion/rise the same way a man would. They put it on our lack of confidence when in reality women are acting quite rationally because we realise we wouldn't be treated in the same way and that we're often penalized for exhibiting such "unladylike" behaviour. Our "lack of confidence" is a consequence of how we're treated in the workplace not a fucking cause of it.Every girl learns, early in life, that when her brother asks for something and gets it, it doesn't mean she will be treated in the same way. It doesn't work for girls the same way it works for boys. The rules are different when it comes to us.We both know this, and know that men will insist this isn't true. That everything is fair. And that's the lie we're left to sit with.Yes. I was recently laid off and Im convinced its because I always ask for a raise - Ive never had a bad review (only great reviews) and they couldnt fire me like they really wanted to do my position was eliminated.Utterly infuriating article. Women become perfectionists because we are presumed to be incompetent and our errors are punished more severely as a result. From the comments:Im a female mechanical engineer. When I graduated in the early 2000s, only 8% of graduating MEs nationwide were female. At the time I believe it was the worst gender ratio of the engineering disciplines.Heres what Ive noticed. As a woman, my mistakes are simply not tolerated. They are shoved in my face, cant live them down. Mens mistakes, mistakes that are far worse, are either forgotten or spoken of quietly. I cannot afford to make a technical error. In the line above, Im pretty darn sure it was the worst ratio, but Im hedging because someone will just loooooove to call me out on that, for some obscure degree that graduates all of 4 men a year. I even have to prep to go do vender shows, as the men at the booths assume Im non-technical. If I dont walk in asking a hard question from the start, Im blown off. Next man comes in, the vendor gets technical.I have to prep. I have to be more prepared. Men can skate through life on confidence, with learning experiences. Women are punished for them.Here, were even being blamed for caring, for trying to compensate.A guy has to be really stupid before men start treating him like they do a woman who made one mistake one time.THIS.Ive also found that most men seem unable to tell the difference between objective mistakes and subjective questions of style.  You can do a piece of work perfectly but if you use curly arrows instead of straight ones and man can tell you youve got it wrong.  Then another man can later review the work and tell you that the (now straight) arrows are a mistake too.Better to ask why women think they need to be perfect, because girls learn early succeeding with mediocre performance is a male privilege.This  This piece made me furious!What kind of take is this? Girls work harder and turn in better work and thats why they fail in the real world.The reality is that our society is sexist as shit and no matter what women do they will be blamed for their own oppression. If boys were doing better in school, then that would be taken as proof of male intelligence and superiority. Somehow when women outperform men, its still is twisted to justify our lower position is society.Women make better doctors, lawyers, educators, etc. than men. Women perform better in all stages of life and deserve to be rewarded for it. The problem isnt lack of female confidence, the problem is male bigotry.Male behavior is held as the ideal even when they are measurably inferior.  In many years of teaching I have seen that little girls are conditioned earlier and harder to be quiet, polite and dutiful. It's sexism. It does benefit them somewhat at school - in grades and wrt suspensions. They have less major behaviour difficulties by far by age 8. On the other hand though, girls are much more likely to underestimate their own abilities and natural aptitude as opposed to boys (as this article implies). This is due to sexist socialization. That doesn't mean it shouldn't be challenged. Positive biases towards boys still exist in schools even as girls sit in front of us, neat, hard-working and docile. Boys get identified as "gifted" more and as "gifted underachiever" MUCH more.In my area, it is no stretch to say that girls get along easier in school. They have been socialized into behaviours that are beneficial in a school environment. These same behaviours are not rewarded in the workplace. Also sexist biases are intensified outside of the school system.I think the article misses the feminist argument to be made somewhat. But there is absolutely a conversation to be had on this topic and changes teschers and parents can make to respond to the imo very real issues the article suggests.I hate that people are mass panicking about boys doing so badly in school despite getting more individual attention than girls. And their solution isnt to teach boys to listen to their teachers (women of all people!), its to completely reform the school system that girls are excelling in. If girls were doing poorly I guarantee the blame would be on their tiny shoulders.Ugh enough with this fucking confidence bullshit already.  Women succeed in school because school is judged blind.  They dont succeed at work because their work is associated with them, a female.  The word is biased against females.  In Delusions of Gender I believe theres a line about how people over estimate the IQs of men by 3 points and under estimate the IQs of women by the same.  So a women needs to be 6 IQ points smarter than a man to be judged just as intelligent.I'm sorry but working in schools, I do not think this is the case. Treatment of children is not gender-blind. Girls are conditioned within and outside of school to be more polite, quiet, neat and conforming than boys. That benefits in a school system which values those traits. It does not benefit them quen they leave school.Edit - the IQ thing is almost certainly true. I would hazard that the same bias exists among many teachers and school admin though.Yea, I thought that comment was totally delusional. We do better in school because were socialized to do well in that setting. Im sure were doing just as well at work, but work is based totally on someones subjective opinion.... oh maybe thats what OP was trying to say lolYeah the evidence shows that women do better at a whole range of jobs, surgury comes to mind first. It's 100% relevant to point out the sexism that exists in the workplace. But it's important to not think school is "blind" or getting something right, it's really doing exactly what this article suggests - encouraging underconfidence and obedience, which definitely does hold girls back when they enter the workplace.Thats exactly what I was trying to say.  The systems of judgement at school are much fairer, whereas in the work place its much more subjective and therefore open to bias.  The world is biased against women, as soon as bias is a factor, women stop doing well. Of course there is bias throughout the way school is taught, but I think if I girl scores well in her exams, teachers cant keep her out of advanced programs!The marking is blind though, at least it is in my country.  Your papers gets submitted under a number, rather than your name.  The questions are marked separately too.  One marker does question 1, another question 2.  It helps to reduce bias in the marking.  Its a system that minimises bias.Of course what you are saying about girls being treated differently at school is true as well.  I wasnt trying to say that the confidence gap isnt there, but the way this article is written seems very victim blamey to me.  I think girls are consistently and repeatedly taught that they are worth less, that they have to be perfect and that causes anxieties and other problems.  I think girls lack of confidence and subsequent struggles in the workplace are caused by the same thing: patriarchy.That's surely after at least elementary school in which marking is based on observation and informal assessment just about as often as it is on formal exams.I agree with you that the writer obviously missed the feminist implications (what a surprise). But he's not saying children need to change on their own, he's saying a culture of expectations and encouragement of this behaviour in girls needs to be changed. Which is true and teachers and parents are in a position to do it.YES. This article made me so angry. I'm a grad student in physics and it is frustrating beyond belief to work with ill-prepared, overconfident male students. They derail classes, waste time in office hours, and monopolize the energy of professors that could go to female students who are prepared and respectful, and yet women are told that they aren't as successful in the field because they don't act like men. The IQ thing is so real-I see it every day. Why are women always being told to modify their behavior instead of men? No matter what we do we just can't win, it's never enough.Lets not forget that when women do act confident theyre seen as bitchy and aggressive.  Wasnt there a study that said women ask for pay rises just as much as men but employees look favourably on men doing it and negatively on women doing it.The article is bullshit, but I do disagree with your first line of text. I'm in STEM and I've seen plenty of fellow female classmates fail at finding a good internship because they were too nervous to ask for certain top positions in the field, or ended up doing repetitive lab work because all the guys + me and some other girl I don't know asked for the harder work, and got it, and they just sat aside and didn't do anything. Like there's already a lot working against us as women, so I think we should teach more women to be confident and ask for raises and demand better projects etc.Most gnc women I know do fine in STEM but more feminine women tend to act more submissive and dependent for whatever reason and end up falling behind. Men are taught their value from a young age, and these women are not.IQ also isn't a good measure of intelligence.I expressed my confidence comment poorly.  Theres another comment on this thread that says it better: women lack confidence because of how they are treated.  They are not treated badly because they lack confidence.  They are treated badly because they are female.  If a women is confident, often they are punished for that.IQ is a poor measure of intelligence, but I think Ive seen the same thing with other tests.  People underestimate girls performance at school, and overestimate boys performance.  In Delusions of Gender I believe they ask school children what they got in a maths test that they took a year before.  The girls subtracted marks from their own score, the boys add marks.Article for those who can't get past the paywall:From elementary school through college, girls are more disciplinedabout their schoolwork than boys; they study harder and get better grades. Girls consistently outperform boys academically. And yet, men nonetheless hold a staggering 95 percent of the top positions in the largest public companies.What if those same habits that propel girls to the top of their class  their hyper-conscientiousness about schoolwork  also hold them back in the work force?When investigating what deters professional advancement for women, the journalists Katty Kay and Claire Shipman found that a shortage of competence is less likely to be an obstacle than a shortage of confidence. When it comes to work-related confidence, they found men are far ahead. Underqualified and underprepared men dont think twice about leaning in, they wrote. Overqualified and overprepared, too many women still hold back. Women feel confident only when they are perfect.As a psychologist who works with teenagers, I hear this concern often from the parents of many of my patients. They routinely remark that their sons do just enough to keep the adults off their backs, while their daughters relentlessly grind, determined to leave no room for error. The girls dont stop until theyve polished each assignment to a high shine and rewritten their notes with color-coded precision.We need to ask: What if school is a confidence factory for our sons, but only a competence factory for our daughters?This possibility hit me when I was caring for an eighth grader in my practice. She got terrific grades but was feeling overwhelmed by school. Her brother, a ninth grader, had similarly excellent grades, but when I asked if he worked as hard as she did, she scoffed. If she worked on an assignment for an hour and got an A, she felt safe only if she spent a full hour on other assignments like it. Her brother, in contrast, flew through his work. When he brought home an A, she said, he felt like a stud. If his grades slipped a bit, he would take his effort up just a notch. But she never felt safe enough to ever put in less than maximum effort.That experience  of succeeding in school while exerting minimal or moderate effort  is a potentially crucial one. It may help our sons develop confidence, as they see how much they can accomplish simply by counting on their wits. For them, school serves as a test track, where they build their belief in their abilities and grow increasingly at ease relying on them. Our daughters, on the other hand, may miss the chance to gain confidence in their abilities if they always count on intellectual elbow grease alone.So how do we get hyper-conscientious girls (and boys, as there certainly are some with the same style) to build both confidence and competence at school?First, parents and teachers can stop praising inefficient overwork, even if it results in good grades. Gendered approaches to learning set in early, so its never too soon to start working against them. Recently, as I read Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban to my 8-year-old daughter, I stopped at a passage in which Hermione  the fictional poster child for academic fastidiousness  turned in an essay that was two rolls of parchment more than Professor Binns asked for. Hermione, I pointed out, doesnt make great use of her time. Shes a capable student and could probably do just as well without working so hard. Right, my daughter said. Of course she could!We can also encourage girls toward a different approach to school  one thats more focused on economy of effort, rather than how many hours they put in. Whenever one of the academically impressive and persistently anxious girls in my practice tells me about staying up until 2 in the morning studying, I see an opening. Thats the moment to push them to become tactical, to figure out how to continue learning and getting the same grades while doing a little bit less. I urge my patients  and my own teenage daughter  to begin study sessions by taking sample tests, to see how much they know before figuring out how much more they need to do to attain mastery over a concept or task. Many girls build up an incredible capacity for work, but they need these moments to discover and take pride in how much they already understand.Teachers, too, can challenge girls over-the-top tendencies. When a girl with a high-A average turns in extra credit work, her instructor might ask if she is truly taken with the subject or if she is looking to store up insurance points, as some girls call them. If its the former, more power to her. If its the latter, the teacher might encourage the student to trust that what she knows and the work she is already doing will almost certainly deliver the grade she wants. Educators can also point out to this student that she may not need insurance; she probably has a much better grasp of the material than she gives herself credit for.Finally, we can affirm for girls that it is normal and healthy to feel some anxiety about school. Too often, girls are anxious even about being anxious, so they turn to excessive studying for comfort. We can remind them that being a little bit nervous about schoolwork just means that they care about it, which of course they should.Even if neither you nor your daughter cares about becoming a chief executive, you may worry that she will eventually be crushed by the weight of her own academic habits. While a degree of stress promotes growth, working at top speed in every class at all times is unhealthy and unsustainable for even the most dedicated high school students. A colleague of mine likes to remind teenagers that in classes where any score above 90 counts as an A, the difference between a 91 and a 99 is a life.To be sure, the confidence gap is hardly the only thing keeping women out of top jobs. Women also face gender bias, sexual harassment and powerful structural barriers in the workplace. But confidence at school is one unequal advantage that we can address right now. Instead of standing by as our daughters make 50 flashcards when they were assigned 20, we can step in and ask them why. Many professional men brim with confidence because they have spent years getting to know their abilities. Women should arrive in the work world having done the same.Fuck this article. Tell girls to work less hard and they will what... be more successful? My assBullshi*t. They act like there's somehow this fair playing field in K-12 and UG/grad school where females irrationally overachieve and overcompensate when they don't need to. NO. Those females sense, early on, that they have to work twice as hard as males to be taken seriously.The teachers, parents, administrators, educational "researchers," MSM, and corporate America need to take responsibility for this culture--it doesn't need to be pushed off onto 10-20-year-old females.If I could have gotten ahold of the data of male instructors in my kids' amazing public charter, I have no doubt I could have demonstrated that he graded girls down. I know he did. But it would have taken a lawsuit and statewide scandal to have proven it. So I just got them through. But it was anecdotally screamingly obvious. A boy raises his hand and seems curious once a week and he gets a big participation grade--when a girl does it it's expected. Nothing new. If she writes something edgy, she's overcorrected and pushed down--if he does, he's a misunderstood and underappreiated genius in the rough. This begins WELL before corporate America.This is victim-blaming--part of the neoliberal agenda to blame individuals for structural workplace issues rather than ask, God forbid, corporations and academic institutions to take responsibility for their choices.Bullshit, as somebody who has done a ton of different jobs for two decades and has applied to tons of jobs in the process it isn't MY lack of confidence. Even when I apply to jobs that aren't predominately employing women I have noticed a huge lack of interviews from MEN over my working life. I've only ever been employed by two men ever, one of them to use me for a fake pro-woman agenda in a sausage party! Men don't really want to hire women even for a subordinate role.Women feel confident only when they are perfect.This quote really stood out to me because I've wrecked my self esteem and mental health with perfectionism. Looking through the comments, even though I have developed unhealthy behavior because of perfectionism, it seems like it's necessary for women to have success in some fields.Any chance someone can cut and paste the article into the comments?  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.NYT gets it wrong again.  It's SEX equality.Gender is a meaningless term now.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.If I kill myself its your fault is emotional manipulation 101. Its often what tethers victims to their abusers and creates co-dependent relationships.And what a world it would be if every woman (if men have souls them too /s) learned this from a young age.What a delusional man. Lesbians don't want to suck your dick. Threatening to kill yourself over it, is not the same as being threatened.more evidence of this whole phenomenon being more about mental illness than anything else, good lordYou shouldn't even listen to the TRA's mindless rants about lesbians. They are incels with a failed cotton ceiling plan.  How terrible, never have women dealt with emotionally abusive men that use suicide as blackmail to get what they want sexually.  Completely unheard of.Whatever shall we do. /sHow anyone takes these abusers seriously is beyond me, disgusting.We shall report them for threatening suicide!I've learned that the prospect of an involuntary 72 hour hold sorts out the attention grabbers.Yes, indeed.What's funny is that this post really hurt someone's feefees and they sent me a message calling me TERF and other misogynistic names.  They said they hoped I died in a fire.  LOL.  They save all of their abuse for women and homosexuals, but God forbid they do something about male violence against trans people.  They are ridiculous.Right. It's on the daily vagenda of mannocide. Although I did explain to my Evangelical cabal that as a Jew I also had international financial markets to manipulate, and the media to control, so, hey, there's only so many hours in the day.Its hard work, being active in so many secret societies. Can "The daily vagenda of mannocide" be my new flair? Please. I'm a fan.Yes! Have you read this?Now I did. What a great way to start the day, thank you X)Nice flair! I did notice that the writer spells manocide with one n....my mistake...Have a silver, sister.Being a Jewish radfem is so TAXING!! Heh. Seriously though how many conspiracies can I be involved in?INORITE? Especially around the holidays, cleaning the house, polishing the silver, getting the blood to make the matzahs, poisoning the wells. It's meshugganah!That's the type of delusion that gets one diagnosed as mentally ill.Sure, JanThe host seemed completely unmoved by the idea... he didnt even bother to feign concern, or ask the TIM to elaborate, he just looked bored. That was quite telling. So many people are willing to just humour these men and their wild claims, but dont really believe them.The host was happy to throw womens sports under the bus (together they made it sound like a thisneverhappens thing), but he did clam up when the TiM went on about organized groups of lesbians trying to convince men like him to commit suicide. Organized. Groups. Lol. Apparently leave us alone = please commit suicide.I say Bravo! Way to show your true colors! Way to peak a few more people!Notice that most people commenting either arent having it or are seriously questioning TRA ideas.Why do they want to have sex with women who are not attracted to them? There are quite a lot of women who are bisexual or straight who are happy to have sex with trans women. Don't they want loving relationships with people who see them as women? Why do they want women who don't fancy them and don't see them as women to have sex with them?Also sex is not actually a RIGHT. I mean where's my special treatment for being a middle aged woman who isn't pretty any more and whose formerly hot body has gone to seed? No men want to have sex with me any more. Why are they not being chastised and asked to question their body preferences and hotness fetishism and to consider whether or not they are TRULY heterosexual given their refusal to consider sleeping with ANYONE AT ALL who wants them to?Other than a male entitlement to women's bodies, I think being with a lesbian could also offer them the ultimate verification of their identity.   "Everyone else considers me a woman in my community now you MUST have sex with me.  I am a woman!"I'm sure there are women out there who identify as lesbian who might fall in love with a transwoman. But they're not going to find that woman on Tinder. And like all good love stories it would probably start out as being friends who actually like each other and stuff. Expecting random women to alter their genital preferences in lovers just on the off chance is irrational.So much of what they say is irrational and ridiculous. They apparently don't believe in sexual orientation. They seem to think everyone is secretly queer/pansexual.POWER.Refusing  to suck your girl dick is not the same as bullying you into killing yourselfWoman refuses to spread legs for man.Man accuses woman of hating him and threatens to top himself.News at 11.These people get more ridiculous and theatrical everyday.What I find interesting is how many transbians have absolutely shit awful sex lives. Like many people, they are convinced that most people are having more and better sex than them, and they're bitter. But as an outsider looking at their lives, it's not easy to find someone into radical body mods, and partnered people have a lot more sex than unpartnered people. They just think it's some kind of oppression when it happens to them.I was also trying to make my rapist kill himself by denying him access to my vagina and emotional labor. What a cis privileged (a word I see he is now very fond of online) bitch I am.Fuck every male bodied dick haver LARPing as a woman.DARVOOOOOOOOOOOOOO  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.To be fair, I've heard an awful lot of dog owners not neutering their dogs because they don't want to take away the animal's "manhood." (Never heard it the opposite way, though -- you can spay a female dog without it affecting her "womanhood.")(Never heard it the opposite way, though -- you can spay a female dog without it affecting her "womanhood.")Oh, plenty of crazies out there advocating for female dogs' right to "experience motherhood", no worries.Oh god those people who let their dogs die from preventable illnesses because they wanted their dog to experience motherhood one day...More like they desperately want puppies but are exactly the kind of people that shouldn't raise them. Because they'll let it happen accidentally, without any thought towards planning or health.I mean, we shouldnt be breeding dogs, not while we have so many shelters full of homeless pets. Its not an issue in other countries like it is in America.Are those people men? Because I'm pretty sure men personalise that issue way too much.My cat is a neutered tom and I get very annoyed when people call him an "it". He's a male cat, he acts quite differently to female cats, he just doesn't spray everywhere and has remained a bit more kitteny.I hate it when people call animals "it". They are a "he" or a "she"...not an it. I have a neutered male cat and I always use male pronouns for him...because his sex is male. I don't think male and female cats act any differently (aside from obvious reproductive roles) though. So I don't get what you mean about a neutered male cat acting differently to female cats.Yeah I know what you mean. Well I have found my male cats in general to be ... dare I say more possessive and clingy? Female cats seem more independent. Though I have certainly had very affectionate female cats too, just not AS affectionate and attached. Almost a bit dog-like.Ah I get it. Yeah, my cat does seem more "dog-like", because he does things like run to the door to greet me when I come home. Also, he is very vocal whenever he wants attention. He was a stray we rescued, and he basically chose me to adopt him because he would follow me everywhere! Literally, he would run toward me full sprint whenever he saw me. He also rolled on his back and behaved affectionately from the first week I knew him. I had never seen a stray cat that was that affectionate before.  Several other people I know who have male cats have mentioned that they are very needy and less independent/ aloof. But I have seen some female cats at the shelter I volunteer at who need attention as well. So I don't know if female cats are more independent or it's just each individual cat. I would add that cats all have their quirks too. Despite how affectionate and sweet-tempered my cat is, he won't jump in my lap and he doesn't like being held.Our male cats tend to be very active, playful, wrestle with each other quite a lot, sometimes try to wrestle with the females (with mixed results). The female cats are a bit more independent, and they'll play with us but not so much with each other or the boy cats. They're also top notch hunters whereas the males couldn't cat a spider if it walked into their mouths.But to be fair, some of this could be because the boys are shelter cats, hand-raised, while the girls were stray/feral cats. And maybe that's more the cause of their behavioral differences than the sex.I have a neutered male cat and I always use male pronouns for him...because his sex is male.Did you just assume your cat's gender?!? How positively TERFy of you.Men are ridiculous. I've even seen "testicle implants" for neutered male dogs -- although to be sure, at least they're neutering the thing. But do we really think dogs give a shit? I think not.And yes, male and female cats act quite differently. We have two males and two females. They are vastly different in behavior and interactions with each other and people.I've even seen "testicle implants" for neutered male dogs -- although to be sure, at least they're neutering the thing. But do we really think dogs give a shit? I think not.I seem to recall an old Kardashians episode in which Bruce begrudgingly takes his dog in to be neutered. Fearful his dog will miss his manhood, they discuss testicle implants with the vet. It's hilarious in hindsight.No, I knew a woman who told me not to cut off my dogs balls because he needed his manhood.   I really hate how dogs are associated with masculinity and cats with femininity. Us humans are so freaking weird.Interestingly though in the history of eunuchs, at certain times and places men would indeed castrate themselves so that they could become like women and enter female only priesthoods - such as certain, specific regions only, temples to Hekate and Cybele.  Modern Pagans like to pretend these eunuchs are an example of ancient transwomen.  Which I guess they are, cutting off bits to invade female spaces, nothing new here.Anyway, the idea that castration and becoming a eunuch makes one become female, or close enough to being female, is not a new idea.  Not surprising though, in many cultures we are naught but broken men and that is why we will never be good enough, never be human enough.  So it stands to reason that an actually broken man must then be a woman.  So it stands to reason that an actually broken man must then be a woman.Thank you Greek philosophers for that little nugget's persistence in the Western world. How wonderful that women are just misshapen men. /sI remember watching a documentary about the Arabic slave trade and the topic of Eunuchs came upso basically the Arabs had the concept of 3 Gender's Male,Female and Eunuchnow if you were castrated when you were an adult you would still be considered male,a man without testicles but still male cause to be proper eunuch you had to be castrated as a child before pubertyeven before Islam came to the Arabian peninsula the black eunuch was considered a holy thing a being neither male nor female and when Islam came and became rooted into dally life and gender segregation was made law the Eunuch was considered a being that could be a bridge between the two gendersthey would guard the harem clean and bathe women however also had an important role in as teachers for the children of the elite in societyThey literally love to cherry-pick and talk about hermaphroditic species like that has any relationship to human biology.The day they can grow themselves a new penis or vagina without medical intervention, I'll consider myself a convert to the cause. Until then, Enough already.Continuing on the castration theme, eunuchs were often castrated by their own parents. In the Byzantine empire, eunuchs could achieve fairly high status in court, so it wasn't unheard of for parents with a spare son to castrate him and send him to Constantinople. And there was the castrati craze in Italy two centuries ago where parents would castrate their sons, hoping they'd have careers as operatic singers.It goes to show that the trans child craze is not a new thing, and that, yes, parents will mutilate and sterilize their own children for a chance at fame and fortune. Some (I hope most) parents of "trans" children are going along with what they think will prevent their children from committing suicide, but plenty are simply pieces of shit.  Oh! That's right! The castrati are an interesting case in fairly recent history.It's hard to believe that people would mutilate their sons on the off chance that they might become successful opera singers, but then again the rationale for FGM is even more nebulous.Intriguing, great post.Eunuch is taboo because people mistakenly think castration means you cut the dick off too, and it freaks men out. So instead of learning the definition of a word, they make the word taboo.Certain cultures did remove the penis as well.Yes, in China they did.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.I know that there is a lot of frothing outrage about this from what I've read on mumsnet, but to be honest, I think that he's spouting nonsense to promote his business.The liklihood of this becoming a reality is slim to none. I just can't see how it could possibly get it past an ethics committee.I think that he's spouting nonsense to promote his business.Exactly.  The whole thing is BS from start to finish and he must surely know that.  The article is full of quotes he knows are ridiculous.  Here's just one from a sea of them:He said births would most likely be delivered by cesarean section in order to safeguard the child."Most likely"?! That is the ONLY way they could be delivered as TIMs don't have an actual vagina!!!  He certainly knows the pelvis and "plumbing" statements he made are also BS.  He should be struck off for promoting obvious medical misinformation.He makes himself look truly incompetent by those comments and promoting his clinic by being stupid will only backfire I hope.Reminds me of when I was like 5 and I saw that Arnold Schwarzenegger movie Junior.  The movie where the scientist impregnates himself. I spent the whole movie trying to figure out how he was going to give birth without a vaginaThat explains it! I couldnt understand how a surgeon could be as delusional as that. I know they have  a reputation for being arrogant psychopaths but STILL you kind of expect a surgeon to understand human anatomy.Cynical exploitation is the much less alarming explanation, in this context.Anyone planning on donor testes for TiFs who want the experience of impregnating a woman?  No?  Anyone? Dr?Nope.  Because what the TiM wants is more important and gets prioritized over the TiF.  Same story, different cover.I'd donate mine, idk what kind of point this is really supposed to be.TIMs dont want them from committed TIFs, doubtless the years of T would have affected the uterus badly.No, what the vultures in your movement want is for your female allies to perform the ultimate act of subjugation and maim themselves for you while also (in your eyes) making themselves the less feminine ones.  So that at last you can crow, look at me, I pass sooo well I can give birth!!!Oh but its okay, theres a TIM making empty anonymous promises to cut his balls off on Reddit!Uhh, it seems like this is all just your best guess? I know a lot of trans folks who would gladly accept a transplant from another trans person.I wouldn't ever want to receive an organ form an unwilling donor, and my balls are going one way or another, why on earth do you think I'd prefer they go into a medical waste bin if somebody else wants them?Anoyone in the medical field working on a procedure to make it happen?  Its all well and good that you would donate yours, but does nothing if the technology isn't there to actually use them for anything.We live in exciting times. It's probably already doable with our current level of medical technology. I'm going into a medical-aligned field, but sadly not surgery, otherwise I'd explore it myself.Please make sure to pay attention in medical ethics class then.  Theres quite a lot we "can" do, doesnt mean we should.For some reference look up embyronic gene editing.I don't see how organ donation is ethically questionable.Easy, heres a few questionshow do you determine who is at the top of the list?  There is no medical need for the procedure, so recipients wont be prioritized based on the failure of their existing organs like other transplants.deceased donors or living?  Each option has its own legal issues.  If the donor is deceased: would the donors relatives be able to claim any rights to offspring resulting from the donation?  Grandparents rights, sibling visitation, etc.  If living: do you limit it to one testicle in case the donor regrets giving both?  What if the living donor decides they want parental rights later on?should the recipient be required to tell the woman they are impregnating that it is another persons genetic material that will be creating a child with her egg?  If yes, how do you enforce that?  What are the repurcussions if the TiF doesnt inform the partner?Time spent on a waiting listBoth. The questions on reproductive rights are interesting, but I don't think they present insurmountable ethical quandries. The scenarios you present are all things that could be legislated for, and so, I'd say not actual ethical barriers to the procedure.Probably not? We have no current legal expectation that information about the genetic information you might pass on be disclosed, so I don't see that this would really present an issue.Your second points, while interesting, aren't actually ethical questions about whether a procedure could be carried out. They're interesting legal/ethical questions about potential future reproductive law. Medical ethics are concerned with the procedure and the recovery process, primarily. We don't often consider questions like 'what will the recipient of this organ do in the future'.For the third point: there is a more than reasonable expectation that the person you have intercourse with is the one the genetic material is coming from.  Now it would be up to the woman to decide how much she wants to know about that person before, but on its most basic level you have an idea based on the person in front of you. if you sleep with a black man you would expect to have a child with 50% of his dna.  Would be rather problematic if the kid is Asian, because the black man she thought she was sleeping with turned out to be a black TiM who had a testicular transplant from an Asian donor.This also leads to a different issue.  Transplants arent handled like sperm donations.  You cant look at a database and pick the testes of a man with the physical characteristics and background you prefer (like you can with sperm banks, where sperm is a product to be bought and sold).  I don't even know where to begin on how to handle that.We don't often consider questions like 'what will the recipient of this organ do in the future'.Absolutely you do.  Isnt that a part of one of the 4 pillars of medical ethics, under 'justice'?  What a patient will do with a transplant is always taken into consideration.  Organs are a limited resource that must be allocated with great care.  If two patients both need a heart transplant, one an active intravenous drug user who has shown an inability to maintain their schedule of medication and follow up care, the other a patient who has made the lifestyle changes required to be in the best physical health they can be with their condition, shows up to every appointment, etc. Who are they going to give the heart to?  Even if the drug user is in more desperate need of it they wont give it to him.  With the number of people who choose to detransition is it responsible to give such a limited resource to someone who may decide they just don't want it anymore?The reasonable expectation thing is a perfectly valid opinion, but it's not an ethics question, or a right, or anything really in that area.I agree on your drug user point, but looking at the good health of a potential recipient is not the same as looking at their general behavior. We don't prioritise 'good people', just 'healthy people'. Discussion about reproductive rights really has no bearing on the ethics of the organ donation, even if the organ in question is a reproductive one.The article states they have to have functioning ovaries to qualify, last I checked...roosters don't lay eggs.Unsurprisingly this guy isn't even a gyno, he's a plastic surgeon. The last time he probably saw a uterus was when he was still in med school.He's a fame hungry madman, reminds me of the Italian doctor who claimed to be able to "cultivate" a working trachea from a combination of a plastic prosthesis and stem cells. That dude brought some people to their early graves and this one is going to do the same if he's ever allowed to go forward with his insane ideas.He reminds me of that surgeon who wanted to do a head transplant, and who was fortunately stopped before he had a chance to murder his patient.The two could rent out a basement flat together, and do their experiments on homeless and prostituted people like some sort of horror movie...Male surgeon believes he deserves new business and a reputation for being cutting edge, maybe even a prize  Dr Inglefield, who appeared in ITV's Transformation Street, told the Mirror: 'This pioneering birth is extremely important for any trans female who would like to carry her own child.Its nice that he wants to help out TIFs whove had their fertility destroyed by SRS.Zing!And what, pray tell, did these stunning and brave men do to earn, to deserve, a uterus transplant?Why, they were brave enough to be born with a penis, don't you know.I'd like to have Queen Elizabeth's money transferred into my bank account. I deserve it.This beast doctor cannot even call biological women what they are = WOMEN. A DOCTOR using "cis-" anything is disgusting!And should uterus transplants ever become commonplace in my lifetime I am not going to be an organ donor. Maybe I'll walk into a freakin' volcano when I sense it is my time to die so I can be sure nobody harvests my uterus after I'm dead.A DOCTOR using "cis-" anything is disgusting!TFW you never took o-chem.TFW you believe the way this doctor used cis- has anything to do with organic chemistry even though you're dead wrong.And I deserve 7 inches more height but I'm not going to get that am I.HAHAHHAHAHAAAAAA, never gonna happen.I hope youre right!Male British surgeon wants  to  be world-famous.Where do they expect to get it? Dead women?This sounds like Ed Gein.Poor women.  We are already selling our bodies for surrogacy for money, so why not just rip the uterus right out for even more money?  Fun times.Christopher Inglefield is probably looking for more customers, er, patients. This is so many decades from even being ready to contemplate, unless a pathological non-functioning uterus and lifelong immunosuppression is the goal here.Why don't they just cure their addiction and get a life so no one has to fuck on camera at all? When discussing """""""""sex work"""""""""" focus on those who create demand, not supplyLgbt movement are your ordinary people with 0 feminist consciousness nowadays. It means their interests are male interestsYeah, LGBT movements have 0 feminist counsciousness yet on my country they are literally the ONLY feminist reference young people will be exposed to and many women (lesbian, straight and bi) identify with "queer feminism". This is why you can't have an intelligent conversation about prostitution with them, which drives me crazy.They won't even admit sex work is harmful, some of them want it to be respected  to the point it's taught to children as a legitimate professional goal. The denial is off the charts.Lgbt movement are your ordinary people with 0 feminist consciousness nowadaysLibfems support prostitution too though.yep, they're "sex positive". because having unwanted sexual experiences really makes you love sex. (logic?)Supporting sex work seems to be a mainstream take. I just saw an article about Meghan Markle bringing food to sex workers and writing messages on Bananas.How about work to end the need for sex work instead of writing on fruit? FFSthat should have been everyone's peak libfem momentI would've been in favor of this if the lunchboxes had also contained paperwork with a list of resources (free STD testing, safe abortion clinics, etc) and organizations to contact if you're trying to exit sex work safely.  But nah, they just wrote some affirmations on bananas instead lol.The actually did include paperwork! One25 is a really excellent charity committed to helping women out of prostitution.I've just looked into this, and the charity she was supporting was One25, which is an excellent local organisation in Bristol, I've volunteered with them before and they support women to leave prostitution, they don't endorse sex work at all. They are honestly a brilliant organisation and I'm glad they've got this exposure."writing messages on bananas"?  Is that some kind of sick joke?What I found interesting was she wrote stuff like you are beautiful and you are strong which is just all the usual empowerment catchphrases. And in this context they just seem so empty and vacuous. It doesnt help a prostituted women one bit to tell her shes beautiful and strongMy best guess is that they believe the lies the company and "porn stars" sell. It's one big happy family, "reputable" companies make sure to test for STDs, the "performers" just have so much fun in this casual, relaxed, friendly atmosphere where they get paid to have mind blowing sex! Porn is a product, of course they're going to keep selling the fantasy even after the cameras stop rolling.The real truth is men and women on drugs in order to just get through a single shoot, high rates of suicide, extremely violent and physically painful/damaging acts that weren't sold as such but once started they can't stop (so rape), underaged boys and girls coerced or trafficked, permanent damage especially for anyone who is subjected to brutal anal, STDs being spread and kept quiet about and the lack of being able to have normal romantic or sexual relationships. This is true for women, gay men, straight men and trans people. There's a lot of "lesbian" porn between straight women, gay men having "scenes" with women and straight men in "gay" scenes. Transwomen are most likely to be murdered by male "clients" during "sex work".It's incredibly harmful and dangerous and not empowering. It's misogynistic, often homophobic and racist and treats transwomen as fetishes. It's a fantasy for men at the cost of vulnerable people.Precisely, don't most trans women who are murdered "work" in prostitution? And then they're all legalization dafuq? I also listened to sabrinna vaslice, a ex-prostituted women, talk about how legal brothels in new zealand don't allow trans people. because even there it's considered like a fetish that turns other men off. could that be the next frontier of transactivists? equal access to brothels!It's the capitalism thing.  They say, since most of these trans people are in sex work, you're kicking them out of a job.  It never even occurs to them to go "What can we do to make it so that these people can support themselves without resorting to this extremely dangerous work?  What can we do to give them the resources to support themselves without risking their lives?  What can we do to make it so that, when some kid's parents decide to disown him, he doesn't have to start prostituting himself just to get by?"To liberals, money is power, and as long as these trans kids (because yes, most are teens or early 20s) slinging sex on the street are getting paid, they must be empowered, right?  These are the same people who would've probably defended locking children to factory machines during the industrial revolution LOL "Oh, so you want them to have no jOB?!?!?!?!?"It's actually really upsetting; almost every TIM who is murdered in America (probably true in other western countries too, though I can't comment on those) is a) a racial minority, b) poor, and c) prostituted. You'd think libfems and TRAs would want a Nordic model-like system in the states because of that, but instead they have to go on about how sex work is just work, when the amount of prostitutes murdered in this country yearly speaks otherwise.Queer people are disproportionately sex trafficked. So to stupid libfems that means the industry must be protected. They do the same racist thing when they constantly bring up "women of color" and the sex trade.are they?? why though?? young males who are trafficked are not "queer", they might not even be gay just be forced to have gay sex with buyers. I know about Brazillian trans women being trafficked to Portugal (with their knowledge technically, because they know they are coming to be in prostitution and have a debt, but they are murdered in Brazil like crazy in very violent ways). Thats about it though. Can you show me some numbers or reports? I'd like to learn moreA lot of children and teens in the sex trade were runaways. And in the US a huge percentage of children who are runaways or who were kicked out of their home are gay, lesbian, bisexual, and trans.I think I can speak for every lesbian out there when I say  wed rather not be a porn category.There is this idea that all sex is good sex. Saying otherwise would sound homophobic, so being anti porn/prostitution = being anti homosexual. This is basically dumbing down sex issues to the lowest level.As far as I can tell a lot of it is that they buy into the propaganda- I know I did for a long time (but Im a het man so take that into account if you want) They either dont know about the many stories/interviews/etc about ex-pornstars (including the stories about ones found dead) or they think the ones who hate it are a minority. They see cam girls on tumblr or whatever and think theyre producing it on their own, so it must be okay! I think celebrities like Cardi B, who when she first became famous was a stripper and did make it sound very glamorous (IMO) also muddle the message. We do have to remember its us against a whole industry that has a lot of power and thus control over what side of the story people hear, and of course thats the one where the abuse doesnt happen and all female sex workers are happy.Oh yes, sex positivity (work) is deeply pro-capitalism.One example of propaganda: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XtnWq7sD6uI. She makes it seem like the best job in the entire world - if only we hypocritical people would stop judging.All prostitution dynamics are inherently exploitive, regardless of the sex or gender identity of the participants.  Enthusiastic consent is replaced with a money value -money which the person selling sex needs to survive.  Rather than ask why people (vulnerable, destitute, often struggling with drug addictions, mental illness, and/or a history of childhood sexual abuse) choose to enter the industry, if they are not trafficked outright, the real question we must ask is why should anyone have a right to purchase sexual access to another persons body?  If two people wish to have consensual sex, then of course they should be allowed to do that! But prostitution is the opposite of that: its sex between one person who wants to have sex and one person who does NOT want to have sex. Money is used to make the sex happen anyways.Queer identity politics fall under the same neoliberal umbrella which supports  the notion of sex work as individual choice trumping all other analyses of policy/power/ethics/etc.   Because they see the determinant unit of societal relations as the individual (as opposed to groups of people with shared characteristics, aka class), they actively refuse to acknowledge the reality that women and other marginalized minorities are harmed by an industry which supports the rights of men to purchase sexual access to others bodies.  This also allows them to pretend that the amplified voices of the privileged few who claim to be happy hookers represent what everyone in the industry could/should aspire to be, even though the reality is that prostitution is inherently exploitive.Whats doubly horrifying about this neoliberal line of thinking is that it goes against the interests of the most vulnerable members of their own community!  Prostituted trans people of color have one of the lowest life expectancies in their community (early thirties) because of the high rates of murder by abusive and homophobic johns.  Instead of realizing that the best way to help end this is to end the selling of human bodies to sexually entitled men, the queer community demonstrates its selfish adherence to neoliberalism by arguing that the right to sell ones body should trump the right of vulnerable people to AVOID selling their body to survive.  age old question, are you oppressed if you don't think or know you're oppressed. All females are oppressed, a lot of us think the root of that oppression is biology, so there's no escape. Would keep at it who has the most to risk with sexual relations, males or females? It pretty much always comes down to females even with sterilization because youth also plays into female value, something a lot of young TIMs are going to find out themselves fairly soon, imagine there will then be a lot of transitioning."Queer" identity is dominated by gay males and gay males, like all other males are obsessed with easy access to sex.  Prostitution, gay or straight, means easy access to sex for males, they don't care that it is based on exploitation and abuse all that matters to them is getting sexual release at a relatively cheap price.I think we need to break it down finer than just "queer". What do we mean by "queer"? Because from where I sit, anyone at all, including straight people and just toying sociopaths have defined themselves as "queer".That might shed some light on the motivations.Because a lot of trans and femme gay.men are or have been sex workers?  I find that most exited sex workers I find on reddit end up being very ANTI full legalization of prostitution, especially those who have actually worked in markets where it is fully legalized.  I'm all for supporting sex workers, keeping them safe and giving them the tools they need to stay that way, but I'll never be in favor of supporting the sex INDUSTRY.  Thats why Im pro Nordic model - legalize selling sex,  criminalize buying it.Yes. I'm fully pro sex WORKER. They need protections and rights. But suggesting it's a totes great job option that all women should be thrilled to enter is... not what I thought supporting sex workers was meant to be all about.Because as surprisingly large proportion of them have active sex addictions or other paraphilias.Because as surprisingly large proportion of them have active sex addictions or other paraphilias.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.  I do really appreciate projects of this kind (shout-out also to the Beautiful Cervix Project) because I remember all too well spending my time as a pre-teen--more than a decade before I'd ever have any sexual interest--looking at porn to figure out what my vagina was supposed to look like. I wish there had been more resources like this online at the time. What I saw in porn made me think that there was something wrong with me for many years.The photographer is also a little radfemmy:Then there was a description in a health leaflet of the vagina as a front hole  language she felt was inaccurate and harmful.On the other hand, including a TiM seems unnecessary, but I do appreciate that it came with this NB:Lets be up front about this: I dont have a vagina. I would describe mine as a neo-vagina. Im not a real woman. Id have loved to have been one, but that didnt happen for me and I have to make do. I cant claim womanhood. I have a different body to women, I have different biology, different needs, I grew up differently. I dont think it should be something to feel embarrassed or shamed about. Im a transwoman, and thats fine by me.I didnt have a girlhood, I wasnt socialised as a girl. I have some similar experiences to other women. I deal with everyday, casual sexism now. The world can be a challenging place for a woman, but Im certainly far more comfortable in it now, as a transwoman, and can contribute more than I could as a man.If only all TiMs could be as secure in being transgendered males.Facts can be downright refreshing. It's really this simple.Then there was a description in a health leaflet of the vagina as a front hole  language she felt was inaccurate and harmful.This doesnt even make sense. It sounds like it was thought up by some guy who thinks women pee out of our vaginas.It shows that they only view womens bodies in terms of penetrability by a penisYes, front hole and back hole are about places to penetrate.  Its extremely demeaningAnd it's not even the front hole, it's the middle one. The front hole is the urethra.Ah but its the front hole that can be fucked, don't you know that's all that matters? Who cares about a hole that can't be penetrated? I thought the front hole thing was something TIFs used to avoid having to think of it as a vulva/vagina due to dysphoria. They'd rather it was a "hole" for gay fucking than feminine, floral-looking, lady genitalia. I understand that (well I don't understand but I accept it - I don't have dysphoria).I would honestly go back to being an ally (not stop being a radfem) if TRA's spoke this way.Yup.Me too.  And it seems to me like they used to so I don't know what happened.Internet porn happened, along with the backlash against second-wave feminism and gay acceptance. (Queer Theory is the theory, trans activism and liberal feminism is the practice).YepShe included a TIF in the penis book, so I guess it's only fair to 8nclude a TIM in this one, I do like that she chose one who is not a reality denier.While I guess it's a step in the right direction that a man understands that his purchased elective surgical whatever isn't actually the same as female vulvas and vaginas, why is it even included?There's a site where there are pictures of real breasts on real women -- are there now going to be pictures of purchased implants there which are attached to males to confuse people, too?I don't like the inclusion of a man in this either.  It's a step in the wrong direction - then they'll be demanding, not all fake vaginas look the same, you need to be inclusive and have more men!!!FFS, the journalist asks her if it's 'right' to call her project about vulvas 'womanhood' since "it implies that sex equals gender." What does this even mean? How is it conflating sex and gender to say that women have vulvas?Let's take a look at the Guardian's report of her last project "manhood' where 100 men have their penis photographed. Well, the Guardian has absolutely no problem saying '100 men bare all' in the headline- isn't this implying that sex equals gender? So let's see if the journalist asks her a similarly woke question -after all, it's just as transphobic to imply that men have penises, right? Haha of course they don't! It's perfectly fine for her to call the dick pic project 'manhood' but she must be scolded for calling the vulva project 'womanhood'. The inconsistency is astounding and very revealing.That made me so angry. And the smugness of it too! Ugh.  In the past month I've been saddened to realize a new harm of pervasive pornography that's apparently really prevalent.I've been an anti-pornography activist since the late 80s and have been horrified to see it morph, quite along the lines MacKinnon/Dworkin predicted.  But, I also grew up at a time in the 70s and 80s where yes, we were internalizing ridiculous beauty standards (those of us who were straight and addicted to male approval), but we were not micro-analyzing our vulvae for hairlessness, size, color, or anything other than an obsession with odor/cleanliness.This is clearly a new phenomenon that is an escalation of the increased self-scrutiny with the advent of modern mass photography in general. Most naked women in the 1890s figured straight men would be pretty happy to be with a naked woman. There were racist and ageist standards to be sure, but generally they weren't busy comparing themselves to standards of thigh size, ankle size, hair, weight, waist circumference, breast size, nipple color, and so on and so on. That rapidly changed over the next century with the advent of mass advertising.I remember when a close friend's husband freaked her out in the 1990s because he asked her to shave "down there." She was a former beauty queen, still conventionally beautiful, and pursued like mad and the thought of changing her natural body parts for him was outrageous to her, and to all of her friends. We thought he was perverted and was into children or something (and it turned out he was "addicted" to phone sex and went to SAA). They ended up divorced.We believed in being tidy for a bikini. And of course, childbirth does all sorts of things to you down there that matter in terms of one's own personal comfort.But the idea of analyzing my vulva to see if it fits some photographic image? I don't even know what that image would be. Most men born before 1970 don't seem to be obsessed with that either, and the only men I knew who were, were severe pornography addicts.Healthy straight men are quite happy to enjoy the vulva of the woman they're dating/in love with/married and, IMO, have never wasted ANY time analyzing it (for fear they'll lose the opportunity).I cannot believe the amount of comments I've read here and elsewhere by young women who've grown up thinking something is wrong with their vulvae.I honestly worry that, as porn continues its current horrific transgression-chasing, medicalized invasive porn with cameras attached to specula or endoscopies will somehow start photo galleries of pornified cervixes, vocal cord flaps, colons, livers, and God knows what. Where does this self-evaluation end?If your vulva feels comfortable and good to you, it's a beautiful vulva, and any dude who'd reject you because you're not waxed and surgically changed somehow is doing you a favor by getting the hell out of your life before you waste another precious moment on him.This is just so, so sad.Yup, most men of that generation are quite happy with a hairy, musky, labia-dangling puss. There were never demands to shave or wax or complaints about not looking like an airbrushed image.I feel sorry for young people of both sexes today to be quite honest.Yep. Ditto. I don't have sons, but it breaks my heart that their sexualities have been so damaged by early exposure to pornography. That doesn't excuse their behavior as adults, but I realize that normal testosterone-ridden pubescent male experience is highly plastic and vulnerable, and if they're exposed to a massive "fast-orgasm" industry like transgressive, violent pornography at an impressionable age, it's like giving cigarettes (or heroin) to high-need children. Of COURSE they're going to get conditioned to it.We know the harms to women, although (per above) I'm surprised at so much labia self-criticism. I guess I'm too self-impressed, but I've never had any issues with male rejection and I still don't. Maybe those of us over 40 are more "French"--we just assume straight men will be happy with the "real thing" and have the confidence to question the sanity of any guy who isn't. There is a grounding with that, I guess.Honestly--why are labia any more critiqued than throats, now that there are open "throat shots?" Are teenaged girls going to criticize the color and size of their pharanxes? The interior of their cheeks?How many body parts are going to be carved and served up as commodities subject to policing and surgical improvement? It's sickening.You deserve gold for this comment, and I weren't so broke I'd give it to you myself.Thanks. And OT, but I grew up on Calabash! An excuse for endless tartar sauce and hushpuppies. :-)Ha ha ha, it comes from my nickname (which I will disclose used to be "Carmelita Calabacita"). It later was shortened to "Calabacita" (little pumpkin, in Spanish). This was a nickname from a boyfriend, and I could never tell whether my family, when they adopted it, were teasing me about being sensitive, about being sweet, or making fun of me (since they often made me out to be the opposite).Since growing up, I have decided that I am proud to be both sweet-natured and sensitive AND temperamental, outspoken, and opinionated. Therefore, I decided on "Unabashed Calabash."In my neck of the woods, we eat "calabacitas," which is a dish of yellow squash with melted cheese, corn, red peppers, and spices, and is delicious. I have eaten squash and pumpkins in many dishes, but never with tartar sauce or hush puppies (I'll have to make this soon)! What variety of calabash (squash, gourd or pumpkin) are you referring to when you say "calabash," if I might ask? I'm really curious!Ha! We're from such different backgrounds yet the term obviously has some common lineage."Calabash" is a way of preparing seafood that originated in Calabash, NC and extended throughout the Coastal South. It usually entails breading and frying shrimp, fish, and oysters, and serving it with hushpuppies, cornbread, cole slaw, and lots of cocktail and tartar sauce (and sweet iced tea).It bumps against the whole "Eastern Barbecue" phenomenon with the slaw and hushpuppies, but I'd say the biggest difference is deep fried baby shrimp instead of 'Cue.There were Calabash buffets where people could easily consume 10,000 calories at one sitting.....a very eastern NC, northern SC phenomena.But I'm guessing the name of the town must have related to the Spanish term (or perhaps yellow squash, which grows like weeds in the fertile soil there). I should look it up!While I agree with you completely, were also in a world where girls and younger women are exposed to images of surgically-altered, ideal vulvas. Just like when I first saw a cervix way back when, the normal, healthy morphology of the vulva is unknown to many young women. I never thought to worry about the appearance of my vulva, but the young ones DO.Same thing goes for the rest of our bodies. We need to be ok with normal bodies that dont look like porn bodies.Oh, I must not have been emphatic enough in the beginning--I see this absolutely as a consequence of exposure to Internet-based pornography.My point is that most women of my generation weren't exposed to any pornography other than Playboy, and then only when it was stashed in a Dad's or boyfriend's bathroom, and we certainly weren't exposed to the horrid gonzo pornography available today.This is really a post 2000 and maybe post-2010 phenomenon. Young girls in particular weren't exposed to images like this until pornography was on iPhones accessible on school buses and playgrounds. It's tragic.Yes were on the same page. I can remember finding my dads Playboy magazine, and...nothing was shocking. I had friends whose parents walked around the house naked, I shared a bathtub with my brother (hey it was the late 60s and early 70s) so a magazine showing naked women just didnt seem like a big deal to my pre-teen mind. I do, now, know it was still abuse of women.I hear about, but havent seen nor do I ever want to, the stuff that is porn now and yes, now I am shocked. Call me an old fuddy-duddy, fine. Kids, violence, and so on...this shit sure did escalate. And thats gonna take a toll on young minds.That person is awesome. Thank you for being real and standing up for women.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Text:Elizabeth BurdenFebruary 6 2019, 12:01am, The TimesFemale-only spaces must be given greater protectionImage Caption: Katie Dolatowski, a trans woman, admitted sexually assaulting a 12-year-old girl at Kirkcaldy sheriff court (ALAMY)Campaigners have called for greater protection of female-only spaces after a trans woman avoided prison for sexually assaulting a ten-year-old girl in a supermarket toilet.Katie Dolatowski, 18, forced the girl into a toilet last March , ordered her to remove her trousers and told her there was a man outside who would kill her mother. The girl managed to escape.Dolatowski admitted sexual assault at Kirkcaldy sheriff court last week and was given a community sentence and tagging order, meaning she is not allowed contact with children. However, she was released from Polmont Young Offenders Institution into supported accommodation.Dolatowski had also tried to film a 12-year-old in another supermarket toilet in Dunfermline last February by holding her phone over the cubicle partition.A spokeswoman for Women and Girls in Scotland, a feminist campaign group, said the case highlighted the importance of single-sex spaces."Over 90 per cent of sexual crimes are committed by males, she said. It is extremely concerning that in this climate many female-only spaces can be accessed by males if they simply state that they are transgender."This horrific sexual assault of a child is a reminder that sexual predators will take advantage of any access they can get and we should be doing all we can to minimise the risk of such assaults.The ten-year-olds mother told The Courier Dolatowski went [to the toilets] specifically to attack a child. I dont have any confidence that he will not do something equally as bad or worse.It comes after 18-year-old Christopher Daniel was granted an absolute discharge last month after he was found guilty of sexual assaulting a six-year-old girl, meaning he received no punishment and will not be registered as a sex offender.A sheriff ruled that he had acted out of inappropriate curiosity and that a conviction would harm his career prospects.Inappropriate curiosity, what the fuck is that understatement? A conviction would harm his career prospects? Maybe he shouldn't be assaulting and perving on CHILDREN. I keep seeing this come up, the pedophile dentist student molested a 6 year old girl & got off with 0 consequences and the sheriff involved gave the same excuse- a sentence would "damage his future". Even wrote the pedo a letter of recommendation to the judge. Why does the future of these perverts factor into sentencing their crimes AT ALL? Can someone explain this to me? Is Dolatowski rich or has some connection to the local sheriff like the dentist pedo did? I'm flabbergasted and outraged. I understand prioritizing rehabilitation over revenge but this crosses the line into injusticeWhat if he wants a career as a teacher, pediatrician, school bus driver, or day care worker? It seems like those career prospects should be off limits.Sexual assault is "inappropriate curiosity"... what the fuck.When I was six, a classmate that I didn't like kissed me. I was grossed out and had issues with it for a while. I tried talking to a therapist about it. She said he was "experimenting." I never brought it up again, because her comment made me feel like I was a thing for him to use.A crazy man with long hair - kids cant be tricked with this bullshit.What the fuck is wrong with the British justice system when these child rapists get no prison time?Parents, start leaning on the police to charge these assholes and prosecutors to never dismiss the charges.  "Sex offender" status should follow them everywhere.We will never have "safe female-only spaces" until that is done.Its insane.  Sierra Levine announced this week life prison sentences for child rapists.  Now saying and doing are two different things, but at least they are saying.Here's an earlier report with more detail.A Fife teenager who filmed a 12-year-old girl on the toilet at a supermarket before sexually assaulting another youngster has been placed on the sex offenders register.The 17-year-old, who cannot be identified for legal reasons, appeared at Kirkcaldy Sheriff Court and admitted voyeurism and sexual assault charges.The teenager followed a young girl into the toilets at the Halbeath Asda store in Dunfermline on February 8 this year and filmed her on a mobile phone.Depute fiscal Sarah Lumsden told the court the accused had been to the toilets with a carer and was walking towards the exit when the young child walked past.Miss Lumsden said: The accused (said their) mobile phone was still in the toilets and returned to them, alone.The young girl was in a cubicle and was sitting with her leggings and pants down when she saw a hand holding a mobile phone over the partition wall.The girl shouted and the person rushed out of the adjacent cubicle.The young girl then left the toilets and was described as looking shocked. The matter was reported to the police who retrieved in-store CCTV footage from the time of the incident.Investigators were able to identify the teenager, whose accommodation in Kirkcaldy was searched.A 12-second video clip of the girl on the toilet, followed by footage of the teenager running away, were recovered when an iPad and a mobile phone were seized.A second incident took place at the Morrisons store in Kirkcaldy on March 4.The court was told a 10-year-old girl had been inside the toilets while her father waited outside.Miss Lumsden said: The complainers dad then heard his daughter screaming and came running out of the bathroom, looking as if she was running away from someone.She explained that a crazy man with long hair was in the bathroom and had grabbed her face and pushed her into a cubicle, before demanding she take her trousers off.She said the person had said they would stab her mum. She was upset and inconsolable.Police officers attended and found the cubicle locked inside the female toilets.A male voice was heard coming from inside, saying: Ive been silly. I bumped into her. Ive been silly.The teenager was taken to Kirkcaldy police station and charged.Defence solicitor Andrew Grieve said his client had been in the social care system from the age of three and had been actively engaging with mental health services.Sheriff James Williamson placed the teenager on the sex offenders register and deferred sentencing for background reports.https://www.thecourier.co.uk/fp/news/local/fife/702003/fife-teen-on-sex-offenders-register-after-supermarket-child-attacks/So he attacks two little girls in public. Two. In public. Caught both times. But no punishment whatsoever.I like how they don't even try to gender this sick twisted person.It's very clever, I noticed it too.So far this disgusting, corrupt society gives ZERO protection to spaces for women and girls, actually it's less than zero because it actively encourages men to cosplay as women just so they can enter Women/girl only spaces and attack them and then when those same male perverts are put in jail or convicted they are ushered into womens prisons.The thing is. There is nothing stopping them doing it now, whether they are trans, pretend to be trans, or are just blokes looking like blokes. They can do it. They don't have to be trans to do it.HOWEVER at the moment in most places, if someone looks wrong in the bathrooms you can at least call them out on it. The danger of self-ID is that the predator can then turn around and sue you for transphobia, deflecting attention from any actions they were planning on taking.The definitely should, but will they?Add it to the list.https://outofmypantiesnow.wordpress.com/2013/10/28/when-is-90-not-substantially-all/http://nounequalrights.com/information/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/The-Threat-to-Women-and-Girls-Illustrated-1.pdfhttps://theysaythisneverhappens.wordpress.com/http://thenewbacklash.blogspot.com/p/9-documented-harms-to-women-and-girls.html  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.I've seen people deadass say it's because black people are oppressed and have been so historically, so white people have no right to say they understand that or identify with it.No, they don't see the ironyRight...I keep forgetting about our female privilege...fortunately, every time a TiM gets cat-called, an angel earns xer wings. /s (as if /s is needed here!)If you REALLY want to get the party started, tell them this:Transracialism makes more sense than transgenderism. Race and ethnicity actually are a spectrum, culture is absolutely a spectrum, and it's not even new. People have been dying hair, applying makeup, getting nose jobs, and such, to look like other ethnicities for millennia. If two ethnic groups are close to each other long enough, they start mixing, if not right away. Then you produce racially mixed children. In early colonial days there were white indentured servants who ran away and assimilated into local Native American tribes. Tartars in Poland do not view themselves as Asian. Uyghurs do not view themselves as Chinese. It is also entirely possible to be of an ethnic group and not know about it, either because of adoption, family secrecy, or something else. I have a friend who is Arab but he's so American apple pie that he just views himself as a white guy and doesn't have any connection to his culture at all. And he looks like Your Basic White Guy.Transracialism is also more doable and safer than transgenderism. Korean plastic surgery usually turns out pretty well, and they don't look like scary mutants the way many TIMs do. Colored contacts are removable. Hair dyes and wigs are fairly well made nowadays and affordable. Skin color currently isn't safe to alter, but that's coming down the pipes of the beauty industry, I'm sure. Makeup can still alter it a bit, though.And all this bullshit is already in place! Just step into any Sephora. Any salon. Any plastic surgeon's office. We just don't call it transracialism. We don't demand insurance or public health services cover it. And we recognize the problems with it. Transgender people don't.If you survive being tarred and feathered for this, I think it will dawn on some people that if transracialism is a crock, then so is transgenderism. No one will initially admit it, but in my humble opinion, everything I just wrote is amazeballz-drop-the-mike true.I love your take on transracialism.The trouble is also the term though, because transracial originally meant "adopted into different race", eg. Korean kids adopted by white Americans and raised as white Americans but subject to racism due to their Asian appearance, and a sense of being neither one thing nor the other.Well, I meant more in the universal term all over the planet throughout history, and it still applies.  People having trouble with identity, that is.I really dont know, youd have to ask them. Whenever Ive tried asking or seen anyone ask, the response is just that its a deeply insulting question and you should be ashamed for even considering asking it.The attitude seems to just be that trans people feel their gender deep in their heart, and we cant question them, except that point of view leaves no room for respecting the feelings of actual women on what it means to be a woman, so... * shrug *Heck, transracialism is less of a stretch than transgenderism.  As a white man, Im biologically closer to a black man than a white woman.The arguments I've seen are all so nonsensical I can't even recall them. One difference is that on the side of the affected people anti-racism activists are more politicized and organized than women and calling out the bullshit - and they have more men's voices that will get taken seriously among them. Another factor, I think, is that for a lot of the liberal left groups racism is something they can pretend to care about because it seems removed enough from their lives (the people live in other countries or at least other parts of the town and their kids will go to different schools), whereas with the discrimination of women that isn't so easy since women are everywhere. So they use the subject of racism to receive performative rage brownie points that help them advance in their liberal circles without actually risking anything.Very interesting, thank you!Because while both PoC and women are historically subjugated classes, women make up 50% of the population and our subjugation is seen as normal.PoC are both men and women, so of course the concept of being transracial will be shut down immediately, as it is both offensive and harmful to that group.Trangenderism isn't really harmful to men at large, so there really won't be that much of a pushback.And what about transyouth? If I went and spent $50k on plastic surgery, hair dye, etc... to look ten years younger, what would they say at the DMV when I showed up and demanded to have ten years shaved off my official age?When AARP started sending me promotional materials, I could claim that they were trying to drive me to suicide by mis-aging me. I could launch a twitter campaign against them.If the bank won't give me $240,000 right now I will sue them for not recognzing me as a transmillionaireIs that a real thing? I had no idea...I made it up, but it seemed to me an appropriate analogy. I mean, like they say, "You're only as old as you feel," right?So, if I feel like I'm 25 and want to date other 25 year-olds, what business do they have rejecting me? How dare they claim I'm not really 25?That's WONDERFUL! "Suicide by mis-aging." Love it!Love this!Try r/nostupidquestionsThanks for the advice, I asked my question there, hopefully I'll get some real answers I did a search of that sub for the term transracial. Its been discussed a few times.The responses are..... interesting. One common argument appears to be that there is such a huge biological difference between male and female, while a lot of races are similar, that it increases the likelihood the of being born in the wrong body.Which clearly makes no actual sense.By that logic trans-speciesism is the most legit oppression of allThat's an interesting conclusion. Seems to me that the much larger difference between the sexes than race shows that transgender is even more absurd than transracial. "Increases the likelihood of being born in the wrong body"...wut, that's loaded and out of nowhere. You have to then assume that our souls are separate from bodies and are male or female already, in the ether preexisting at all, with a set of preferences for the life you will live, and that there is a process for getting a body, that can go wrong. And so with transracialism, you just get closer to the mark? They are still validating transracialism that way.  In my eyes transracial would even make more sense than transgender. I don't believe in "human races" anyway.The physical biological difference between men and women is clearer defined than between "races".However, in the end "transracial"  only seems to be about people wanting to change their skincolour because they suffer from mental illness. Not too different from the transgender community...On the other hand, white women are getting large lips and butts created that seldom if ever occur naturally on white people... but do seem to be quite typical of black women. And being applauded for that "sexy look" where non-white women are not.I've been trying to understand why feeling like the opposite sex and feeling like another ethnicity is not comparable according to TRAs, or even non-TRAs, but I cannot find an answer anywhere.My gut-level response is that it's because black people have zero tolerance for it. They will not allow that door to be opened.Yes its a united front. Unlike women, we have male-pleasing handmaidens among us.With Judith Butler leading the way.Its a pretty thin theory when you have only one theorist. Im gonna downgrade that to hypothesis status right now.A feminist philosopher wrote a great article about this for Signs--it was accepted through peer review--and then the circular firing squad of pseudo feminists and queer/po-mo/academic irrelevants led a yuuuuuuuuge outrage mob to get the article retroactively rejected, which is unheard of in academia (with a handful of historic exceptions).It was insane. I don't know what happened to the poor woman. It was a very reasonable, well-argued argument, and in any case, the remedy if you're outraged by someone examining this question is to write letters to the editor or submit your own rebuttal.But this was a 21st century witch-hunt, with women as active as men in trying to prove their purity and "burn the witch."Anyway, thanks for the post.They did this because they have no argument that makes sense, I am sure.They cant even claim its hate speech, because then it could be claimed that a trans racial person also experiences hate speech. In fact, I cant think of an argument that wouldnt turn into whats good for the goose.. so they resort to screaming.When I was somewhat deep in trans activism, I countered people who brought this up with brainsex arguments. You can have a male or female brain, but not a black or white or asian brain. I found out fairly quickly that this apparently doesn't fly with TRAs anymore because I started getting shit for being a "medicalist", since brainsex implies that being trans is more than just a feeling and doesn't really explain non-binary and agender people.After researching and learning how flimsy the whole concept of brainsex is, I went into something of an ideological crisis because I just could not find or come up with a coherent argument for why being transgender is valid but being transracial is nonsense.I still see them using the brain sex bullshit all the time though. It infuriates me because men have used the ladybrain crap to keep women out of almost every field. And now these "progressives" are using the same bullshit to "support" their flimsy transgender ideology.I should have worded my post better, I didn't mean to imply all TRAs avoid brainsex. The college activist group I was a part of just happened to be staunchly against it. You're definitely right that the majority still use it which is why I was taken aback somewhat when called out for using it.It kinda exists in a lot of african and caribbean countries, where being light skinned is "better" because of racism and internalized racism and white aesthetic canons. Sure it's not really a full "racial transition", but it's clearly more dangereous, people bleach their skin and can have cancer because of it.It can't be compare because it's not the same, the reasons of "transitionning" are not the same and it's based on differents countries and societies.you're conflating colorism with the concept of transracialism thoughThis also happens in the US. I recently overheard some of my black female students discussing a guy one of them liked, and the other two were concerned because hes so dark - ugh!I don't think there is an answer. Back when I still a trans ally/handmaiden, I sure tried hard to come up with one, which ended with me realizing that 'transracial' makes more sense than 'transgender,' although neither makes sense.Oppression Olympics.Oppressics.Bleep-bloop, I'm a bot. This portmanteau  was created from the phrase 'Oppression Olympics.'. To learn more about me, check out this FAQ.Good botBecause the goal of the current political zeitgeist is very specific: to eradicate racial collectivism and de-masculanize males, starting with caucasians.So transgenderism works because it facilitates a global culture of "gay disco party." The more people are messing up their gender and engaging in righteous hedonism, the less they are asking why we're killing people in the middle east and engaging in regime changes every 5 years (along with all the other nightmares of our political systems).Transracialism does not work because if transracial were afforded oppressed class status, you could in theory have capable males of a racial group that has been deemed evil (you know which group I mean), who were exempt from the ongoing demonization that generates so much political influence and power (and gimmicky marketing).More importantly however, transracialism facilitates definition between races, which in itself is a problem as the goal of these oligarchs is to eradicate all racial identity entirely, which is why racemixing is so heavily pushed everywhere.You guys are all too obsessed with "women are victims" dialogues. Men aren't your enemy. The enemy is multinational corporations, global finance, media conglomerates, elite ideologues in academia, and all the bought and paid for politicians in government. They are largely headed by dynastic families and seek to eradicate all diversity, all gender conformity, and essentially facilitate a world of mixed race identity-less consumer hedonists, too wrapped up in the global gay disco to notice their own enslavement.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.I think its considered hateful to remind trans people of their biological sex because they want to silence any dissent. Dissent ruins their fantasies about themselves.  I'm not on the autism spectrum and you said it all more eloquently than i think i ever have, so hopefully that can give you confidence in the future if you ever need it.You are presenting a factual argument, they are presenting an emotion/opinion based argument.  Anything can be viewed as hateful, because its determined by the person receiving it.  Legally its different, a hate crime is not simply based on the opinion of the victim, but socially that's the way it works.So if your factual position goes against their emotion based opinion the conversation never really gets off the ground.  You're asking the price of an apple, they're responding with a description of how an orange tastes.  Sure, you're both talking about fruit, but one has nothing to do with the other.it hurts their feefees and kills their bonersI think it's considered rude because you are disrupting their form of religion. E.g. if you went up to a religious person and told them their beliefs were dumb, this is rude.(However, it is also rude for religious people to push their beliefs on other people, which is what is happening at the moment, and also troubling that tra movement is trying to write their religion into laws that affect others E.g. if a religious person harrasses me about converting to their religion, then i feel that if I snap and tell them that their beliefs are dumb and their god is a fiction, they should expect that and my rudeness comes from their rudeness)In addition, agp males don't want you to point out they are male as it intrudes on their sexual fantasy.You're allowed to believe in a god. You're allowed to believe unicorns live in your shoes for all I care. But the day you start telling me how to wear my shoes so I don't upset the unicorns, I have a problem with you. The day you start involving the unicorns in making decisions for this country, I have a BIG problem with youOne of my all time favorite quotes.  And perfectly encompasses my feelings about the trans movement, just replace "believe in a god" with "believe you are whatever sex you want".Some lame TRA argument I heard recently was a complaint that theyd get bored just eating steak every day, so why cant they have chicken? (As if their actual position is that reasonable). My response: You can have chicken. You can fish and tofu, even. What you cant do is show me a piece of tofu and demand I call it steak. Nor demand the government to change all the food labels.And the government won't allow you to say tofu is steak (if you're the one selling it).  That's why we have dumb words like "tofurkey" now.If they could provide that same protection to the words "man" and "woman" that'd be great.Yes exactly. Love this. It's only when you encroach on my beliefs that I begin to remotely care.I love that!TRA ideology is like plate spinning, you have to keep spinning the plates or the whole thing falls in a heap and shatters.It seems like you believe gender assignment is derived from biology. Thats the premise of your whole post, but its untrue. Gender assignment is about genitals, not biology, and thats why its a practice that came about before our understanding of chromosomes. Our current understanding of chromosomes doesnt actually coincide at all scientifically with our cultural practice.Because the loudest voices among these people have identity disorders, personality disorders. Exposing the fiction and the mask they're wearing is the most intolerable thing to them. And most stable, emotionally normal people are taken in by it because they just gosh-darned can't believe that some people have malevolent and narcissistic morals.Because the male-run trans agenda wants it that way.Transgenderism really is a mental condition.I think it is unnecessary.  In most cases yeah, I don't need to talk about medical stuff with people. I don't understand why some people react extremely negatively to statements like this though. It's not hateful to ask somebody to make their own word for their own group that has their own issues.  gender as assigned at birthPeople have a sex assignment at birth, not a gender assignment.What you are experiencing is most likely people who are use to others being purposefully hurtful and disrespectful when they say things like that, and just assume that is your intention as well.I suppose that is the case. I'm sad that some people are so unkind to trans people that there is such a negative response. I don't think it's right to hurt trans people's feelings just because people are really heated about gender politics. Respectful communication is very important to me.I'm sad that some people are so unkind to trans people that there is such a negative response.A lot of them have caused such negative responses to exist in the first place. As a lesbian and a woman I just barely have my own spaces online where I am not attacked by transpeople, despite never having done anything TO them to warrant such hostility and attempt at erasure. I recognize your handle so I know you have been on this sub for quite a bit now, every day there are multiple posts here, some of them news articles, showing how poorly transpeople as a whole think of women, and many of them are enraged at the fact that lesbians, who by nature are not into penis, will not take theirs. I don't know how you manage to ignore all of those things and then think it is sad that transpeople cannot take their own medicine from people they repeatedly have attacked with verbal abuse and sometimes physical abuse.Yeah, I'm with you here. It's very hurtful for trans people to refuse to acknowledge sexual orientation; it's insulting and hurtful for TiMs to call themselves lesbians and steal all the language associated with that, and it's deeply wrong for them to pursue lesbians romantically -- but no one seems to give a hoot about that. Why is the concern for hurt only in one direction, I wonder?Also, for purposes of this discussion, I think there's a difference between saying, generically, transmen are female, for example, and saying to someone's face, 'you're not a man'. I thought the OP's question was geared more toward general discussion, and I think it's absolutely necessary to be able to speak truth in that way.    Have you read my post in r/agender about Autism and gender? I think a good number of trans people are legitimately under the sincere belief that biological sex is changeable.Edit: apparently it is arrogant now to suggest a sub to someone?Get over yourself I don't follow you around to other subs, my time is more important to me than that.I'm dubious about that.  I think at some level every TIM and TIF knows that they are at best a mediocre mimicry of the opposite sex.  The trans subs are full of threads angstying about this.Yeah me too, I only started disliking the trans community after seeing how delusional, aggressive, and entitled the majority of them were. The hate they receive from lesbians is a result of their own actions.I'm curious: why do you suppose that most people who believe it is important to acknowledge material facts (especially when not to do so may put others in jeopardy; for example the increasing number of girls and women being assaulted by trans-identified men in women's private spaces) are being purposefully hurtful and disrespectful?  I don't think that they are being purposefully hurtful. I think there's some miscommunication going on because things are a bit heated.  People have a sex assignment at birth, not a gender assignment.Actually I would say people have their sex observed at birth, or increasingly commonly, observed at some earlier stage via genetic testing or ultrasounds.Assignment has the connotation of some sort of judgment process going on when for at least 99.98% of infants their sex is obvious from a visual inspection.I'd rather neitherBut the captions are lolI used to be one of those "reclaim bitch" women.  Until I read a quote from someone, somewhere, it went something like,Bitch: The last word many women will hear before some man kills them.So yeah, I would rather neither as well.The one saying it has a history of being used against "us" is so funny though.  Us?  Really mate? Really?The liberal "reclaim" crap doesn't really make any sense. How can they "reclaim" something that was made up by their oppressor? It was men and a patriarchal misogynistic society that came up with derogatory words like "bitch" for women. I feel the same way about derogatory racist and homophobic words as well. Who came up with the n-word? Racist slaveowners. Who came with homophobic slurs? Homophobic men. So there is no reclaiming anything. Your oppressor came up with those words to demean and degrade you...and they really don't give a damn if you think it's "empowering" somehow. It does not change the connotations behind those words, what they mean and why they were used to begin with.That is exactly why I'm not a fan of the idea of reclaiming hurtful words. I've been concerned that it doesn't ever diminish how awful they are, just that it gives abusers one more thing against their victims. I could see them using the excuse that they can verbally abuse all day long if they want since supposedly the words have less power since they have been reclaimed.I would never call a TiM a bitch because theyd find it validating.Hear hear  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Text:By MADELEINE KEARNSFebruary 7, 2019 6:30 AMThis Week at the U.N.: Feminist Concern about Transgenderism Is MisplacedScotlands highest-ranking politician sides with radical LGBTI activists who advocate gender transitioning for children.Christopher Hitchens used to say that that which is asserted without evidence can be dismissed without evidence. I wonder what he would have made of modern gender identity theory  that quasi-mystical and unfalsifiable belief one has about oneself, which can supposedly override ones biological sex.In any case, thanks to gender identity policies in the U.S., girls who identify as boys are having double mastectomies as young as 13 while parents are being reported to child services for addressing their children by their correct, sex-based, pronouns.Because of gender identity policies in the U.K., males who identify as females are getting access to womens-only spaces  like Karen White, a transgender male who sexually assaulted female inmates in a womens prison  while law-abiding citizens are being reprimanded by the police for tweeting their doubts about transgenderism.And because of gender identity laws and policies, doctors, parents and women across the political spectrum are speaking out to say that enough is enough is enough. Is anyone listening?My home country, Scotland, is proudly progressive when it comes to gender identity. As the serving first minister of Scotland, Nicola Sturgeon is my countrys highest-ranking politician.Yesterday, she was speaking about human rights at the United Nations. I attended this conference and raised some of these concerns with her. I said:My name is Madeleine Kearns. Im also from Scotland, as you will probably hear. My question relates to womens rights specifically.As a journalist, Ive spoken to many feminists  and particularly lesbians  from the U.K. and the U.S. who are very concerned about the implications of legally enshrined gender identity for women and childrens sex-based rights and protections.So, Id like to ask the first minister if she understands woman to mean adult human female or a person who identifies as a woman  and how Scotland plans on addressing some of the obvious concerns that come from this question.Sturgeon replied:Well, this is a very live debate in Scotland right now, as it is across the U.K. and in many other countries. Scotland has plans to bring forward legislation to simplify the process around gender recognition. It doesnt change the fundamentals. It simply makes that process easier. And, I hope, intends to put more dignity into that process for people who are going through the process of changing their gender.The debate would be a lot more live, Im sure, if the Scottish government hadnt decided that criticizing transgender ideology is a hate incident.But at any rate, here she is referring to the proposed changes to the Gender Recognition Act that would allow a person to change his or her legal gender simply by filling out a form, and that could make it possible for minors to change their legal gender, too. She continued:This debate has become, in many countries, very polarized, and I think its incumbent on all of us to try and depolarize it. The reason why I think its important to simplify the procedure around gender recognition is that many transgender people go through extreme difficulties in a whole range of different ways and I think we should be doing everything we can to address that and to recognize their rights and to allow them to express those rights as fully as possible.This, of course, does not address the premise of my question, which related to the definition of woman and concerns related to their sex-based rights and protections for children. She continued:In my view, some of the concerns that are expressed on the part of women and feminists, while we have to listen and understand that, I think many of those are misplaced.She didnt specify which concerns were misplaced or why they are. Instead, she continued:As an ardent, passionate feminist, and have been all of my life, I dont see the greater recognition of transgender rights as a threat to me as a woman or to my feminism. But I think there is a need to bring different parts of this debate together and to try to find the way forward that will respect the rights of transgender people and recognizes and hopefully addresses some of the concerns that are expressed.I wonder if Sturgeon would have anything to say to the ardent, passionate feminists and womens-rights activists whom I recently interviewed for National Review Onlineand who, only last week, were busy fostering transatlantic and bipartisan resistance to legally enshrined gender identity.Or the group of ordinary women from all over Scotland who have come together to fight for womens and childrens rights,For Women Scotland.Later in the conference, a man called Peter Smith introduced himself as the grandfather of Scottish children and asked specifically about parental rights.He said that in some jurisdictions, children have been removed from their parents custody if the parents refused to affirm their self-declared gender identity. (Indeed, only two days ago, I interviewed such a parent living in Spain.)Smith pointed to research conducted in the Netherlands and elsewhere suggesting that over 80 percent of children with gender dysphoria (a marked feeling of incongruence with ones sex) will grow out of it by the end of adolescence if they have not socially transitioned or received hormone treatment.Though this, of course, is to say nothing about the unprecedented surge of rapid-onset gender dysphoria among teenage girls and likely social contagion. And Smith did not go into the grisly details of medical harms inflicted on children who undergo life-altering sex-change treatments and surgeries. Both of these points only strengthen the argument for caution.Sturgeon replied to Smith:Let me say that nobody wants to see children be taken away from their parents and nobody wants to see parental rights not being given appropriate respect, but Im also grateful that the rights of children and young people, and weve been talking here this morning, and Ive been talking about the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, and I think its really important that we also give recognition, and Im not sure that I would quite as glibly talk about young people growing out of things.Why glibly? She didnt say. Instead, she continued:I have had the privilege of speaking to so many young people, including transgender young people, young gay and lesbian young people, and the difficulties and the challenges that they face in being themselves  and they have a right to be themselves  can be considerable, and I think our duty is to help and support them, not make the challenges they face even more difficult.One of the things that Im very proud of, as first minister, was as a country that has a very good record on LGBTI rights and that has become the first country in the world to embed LGBTI education into the school curriculum. And I think that is really important, and its grounded on that respect for the rights of children and young people.The I in the LGBTI acronym represents intersex conditions, known in medical literature as disorders of sex development, which are unrelated to the respective categories of sexual orientation (LGB) and gender identity (T).And what might this mandatory LGBTI education look like? As it happens, I can tell you. Before I became a journalist, I trained as a teacher in Scotland, where I received instruction from an organization called LGBT Youth Scotland, which receives significant amounts of public money from Sturgeons government every year.Our expert trainer (a teacher turned full-time activist) told us that the transgender umbrella ranges from a child who does in their own mind think Wow, this bodys wrong and doesnt fit me to a boy who thinks Im fine with my body, but actually I dont buy this masculine clothing thing.Which is rathera lot of children to be uncritically socially transitioned by their teachers (who, smart and savvy though they may be, are hardly qualified to do on-the-spot psychological evaluations).Indeed, this is a crucial point that is often neglected. Social transition  which is what this trainer was telling us to undertake for any child who claimed to be transgender  is a form of psychological treatment for gender dysphoria.Not just that. It is a form of psychological treatment that typically leads to irreversible medical and surgical outcomes. Britains main gender-identity clinic has seen an increase of over 4,000 percent in the number of girls seeking medical treatment for gender confusion in the past eight years.How many of those girls will be sterilized for life? How many will have their breasts cut off? How many will, like one 19-year-old lesbian I met, feel bitter regret? And what about the parents?Our LGBT Youth Scotland trainer also told us that we should avoid outing transgender children to their parents and, if the child so wished, exclude parents from the process entirely. This approach has the full backing of the Scottish government. And an increasing number of U.S. states  such as New Jersey  have similar guidelines.Excluding parents from serious welfare decisions is particularly concerning given LGBT Youth Scotlands poor safeguarding history. In 2007, their chief executive was arrested  and later convicted  for being the ringleader in Scotlands largest pedophile network and for conspiring to get access to children. Weirdly, though, no one thinks to mention that.Nor do activists lament the treatment that womens-rights campaigner Kellie-Jay Keen-Minshull received for daring to criticize Susie Green, the chief executive of Mermaids U.K. (an English charity that, like LGBT Youth Scotland, aggressively promotes transition treatments for gender-confused youth).After Keen-Minshull criticized Green, on Twitter, for taking her 16-year-old son to Thailand for a now-illegal sex-change operation, Green complained of hate speech. In response, the police launched an investigation into Keen-Minshull.So, there we have it. A quick trip to the U.N. from NROs office to find out that the first minister of Scotland thinks that concerns over gender identity laws and policies are misplaced.Either Sturgeon is ignorant of what is happening as a result of these laws and policies or she doesnt care. In either case, it is high time that she and other world leaders quit their virtue-signaling and dealt with the facts.This would be the same woman that refused to intervene in the case where a student abused a six year old and went unpunished.  Shes not a feminist, shes not even a decent human being.How are there not massive protests happening?I have no idea.  Too many people thinking it wont happen to them, too many people not having any regard for children?  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.I mean. This is still about gender roles (men do this, women do that) not actually about changing whether the rest of the group see and understand you as a 'female person', which you are and you cannot change. It's convenient to conflate the two because most people are going to agree with breaking down strict gender roles and not asked any further, more difficult biology related questions.Also, I would cringe at being asked to use e, ei, em pronouns. What's gendered about the letters t, h and y?  I'd probably respond just as well to being asked to use e, i, e, i, o pronouns.This article felt very voyeuristic and I get the impression she was desperately searching out opportunities to tell people her magical new pronouns. I dont know about you, but pretty much all partner dances, especially folk ones, involve a male and female role.Im honestly wondering if this story wasnt completely made up, or if it wasnt another instance of a trans person explicitly seeking opportunities to a) make people uncomfortable and/or b) be the centre of attention.I get the impression she was desperately searching out opportunities to tell people her magical new pronouns.My thoughts exactly.I have literally never seen those particular pronouns before. Are they new? Does only Maia use them?Note also how NOBODY CARED OR MADE A BIG DEAL OF IT. Because people generally do not.I read them in my head with a French accent because they cant pronounce English h very well, can we ding her for cultural appropriation, too?Missed an opportunity to use do, si, doe pronouns.The e, ei, em pronouns made me laugh hysterically. It actually made me believe this was satire. Why would anyone choose e, ei and em when many English speakers drop the h in the world he?Even better if you assume an accent like Cockney.Oi, oi, and oi'm.Or a, e, i, o, u -- what's gender neutral about vowels? Actually, looking at the word 'neutral,' maybe GN folks should go with 'eu' in all cases.Ha I spent a fortune on English language classes (I'm not a native speaker) and I'm not gonna ignore the grammar rules I spent so much time to learn. As far as I know the language books teach only 3 pronouns, she/he/it, so the best I can do is using "it".Um, i believe the correct term is folx. Be more mindful enby.I go to contra dancing sometimes.  It's pairs dancing but all in a big group and by the end of the night you're supposed to dance with everyone in the room.  The callers say "gents" and "ladies" as the terminology for how to say who does what.  It's pretty normal to not have an exact even numbers of gents and ladies who show up, so it's pretty normal for people to go ahead and switch dance parts, as needed.  More experienced dancers, especially, will learn how to dance the other part, over time.  This isn't anything weird or new.Also, you're not generally talking very much at these dances - there is music, and you have to think about the dance moves and do them.  I do not know the politics of most of the people I've danced with, because there's a lot more dancing than conversation and it wouldn't come up in conversation anyway.Yes. Especially when you're dancing with older people, there are always more women than men. In couples' dances, it's very common for some more experienced women to learn the mens' part too.Thirty years ago, I was dancing with older ladies wearing name tags that said, "BOY."BREAKING: Self imposed special snowflake syndrome causes angst for attention seeker. More at 11.I went to a folk dance, and one of my non-binary acquaintances was there as well. There was a dance where women had to run into the centre of the circle, followed by the men. I kept an eye on her to see what she would do, and she just didn't run into the circle at all.It's funny that this person thought it was a big deal to join the men. In my experience no one cares.I sincerely thought this was satire.  But, alas, it isn't.  The author: Maia Kobabe is a nonbinary, queer author and illustrator with an MFA in Comics from California College of the Arts. Eir first full length book, GENDER QUEER: A MEMOIR is forthcoming from Lion Forge in May 2019. Eir work focuses on themes of identity, sexuality, anti-fascism, fairy tales, and homesickness.An MFA in comics.From the art college in Oakland.Ei are a Hard Times special edition waiting to happen. And ei are either very rich or very in debt.TIL you can get a Masters in Comics.This is one of those times I'm super sad I don't know all of you in real life. Because I want to spend time laughing about this. And there's no possible way to explain it to anyone I know and have them understand.There was a comic convention in town yesterday.  I doubt any of those exhibitors or attendees had a degree of any kind in comics.  It was just a hobby for most.EirOn the first few reads, I kept thinking this was someone's name. Confusing as hell.Yeah, I was like, why does this Norse goddess keep showing up?This made me actually laugh out loud. Thank you.Is this why graduates aren't getting jobs these days?  They're having to invent jobs for degrees which are of no use in the real world?Gender crisis! at the old peoples homeGender neutral contra dancing has been around for decades in New England. Wicked good fun.Lmao what a crisis! These people are fucking exhausting.This is all kinds of adorable because if Maia had spent much time in dance classes e would know there are never enough men and women dance male parts all the time and it is No. Big. Deal.Enbies are hilarious. This is not quite as funny as the one about the wedding dress but that self-introduction is gold.I find them funny too, I hate to admit...they are a reaction against gender identity ideology as well as part of the desire to be "special," and the goth/punk/emo of their generation (only they've replaced angst and dark energy with this actually kind of touching naivete...)However, this comic was really cute (and being in possession of an MFA in creative writing, I'm not going to bash someone with an MFA in comics, although admittedly it sounds hilarious), she did not make a big deal about the age of the dancers, which is very rare (lack of ageism and enjoyment of activities with older people), and that article about the wedding dress was just insufferable and absolutely the worst, whitest, wealthiest type of pretend-oppression imaginable. It was too abhorrent to be funny, honestly, the "identity crisis" of a rich white woman who gasp horror of horrors!--doesn't want to wear frills!That might actually be the stupidest thing I've seen today. Goodnight, internet.This was actually very cute. I loved the drawings of all the elderly dancers and the young tomboyish non-binary dancer.I think her pronouns are supposed to be about trying to find common ground between he and she (e), her and him (em), and his/her/their (for some odd reason): eir ("ir," from "his" and "her," would have been more in keeping for the possessive adjective, but I suppose it just sounds like "her;" then again, "e" just sound like "he," and "em" just sounds like "them," so if she's trying to either have consistent rules about combinations or to avoid confusing people she's not doing a good job of either).Of course the older adults were nice to her, it's a folk dancing group! Have you ever met a folk dancing group? They are the nicest folks in the world!To them, no doubt, this is just the stuff of youth. She could have gone in as a she/her woman and still said she'd like to dance the men's part one day and the woman's part another; she could have broken down boundaries without necessarily announcing anything. I think this is what non-binary people don't understand: gender nonconforming people have been around forever, and it's a lot braver to be your sex and be gender nonconforming than to declare yourself something somehow separate and distinct from others of your sex."Non-binary" is definitely a response to the predominant trans narrative of the young adult generation right now. They accept gender identity ideology, don't see where they fit in, and then decide they must be "non-binary." There were two "non-binary" young women at my former workplace; while one wore man's boots and had short hair, the other had long hair, wore makeup and skirts, and I generally could not see why she considered herself gender non-conforming except that she must have decided she didn't fit the stereotypes about the feminine gender she saw her peers purveying. It's as if a whole generation of people don't understand that everyone is non-binary.I understand it in very young people, but find it unbearable, cringey and kind of inexcusable in people my age.When I was a girl, women would often dance with other women when a male partner wasn't available.  Many were used to the absence of men during WWII.   They didn't think anything about it, they just wanted to dance.  Dancing alone would have seemed weird.This is just stupid.When I was a girlMany were used to the absence of men during WWIIwait.you were alive during WW2 ?Yes, I was born in 1941 so I have an interest in WWII history.  But the practice lived on even after the war.  I was a teen in the 50s and it wasn't unusual to see it happening even then.  Not everything was about sex, it was about learning to dance.Its so odd seeing someone thats over 70 years old being on reddit of all placesI think it's fantastic and really not unusual.It is and I love knowing someone has so as hostabunch is part of our little community but sometimes I get afraid that the elderly could be taken advantage of onlineShe's 70. Doesn't make her stupid. People of all ages get taken advantage of online and IRL. Hopefully she'll tell one of us if she gets an email from a Nigerian prince or tries to spend money on ONE WEIRD TRICK.My dads the same age as hostabunch and could run rings round me for sure.  There have been conmen around since forever, I dont think elderly people are more likely to be taken advantage of online than travellers tarmacking their drive or YOUVE WON junk in the post.This is amazing!! I'm so happy, because HPV can be deadly for women and 90% of Mexican women have been infected with HPV. I'll be drinking to my Mexican sisters' health tonight!Also: Eva Ramn Gallegos is a name I will spread till I die. What a hero!This is amazing news!  For whatever reason, I'm not seeing much talk about it, so I'm happy it got posted here.  The HPV vaccine is a great invention but since the window where it is safe to receive it is so small, this could really change a lot of women's lives down the road (not to mention save some women's lives as well).True! I am always so so terrified of STD's. Female sexual health is a feminist issue!Promising results for sure although slightly misrepresented in the media.  The 100% refers to all the patients in a study of 29 women, which is considered a rather small sample size for a clinical trial.  In a bigger study by the same research team it was less than 100%, although still impressive.This is /r/goodnewsforwomen !!Has this even been covered by any U.S. media?  It seems like it should be plastered all over the place.This is great... I am so happy for all the women this will help, and the women who scienced the cure. :)This is really exciting to see as someone who unfortunately missed her last HPV vaccine (due to being scared away by my crazy aunt)  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Because men are willfully obtuse about reading nonverbal cues, empathizing with women, and thinking abstractly. They want a set of engraved rules about when something is appropriate and when it is not so that they can figure out how to circumvent it and still have their behavior considered acceptable, even when it verges on the dubious.Lmao the only men who will attend that are performing wokeness and probably going to try to pick up chicks. Unless the government starts forcing rapists to go as part of their criminal sentence - which isnt a bad idea  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.I am opposed to any drag performer who acts more like a "exotic dancer" than a burlesque or camp performer. Drag was about being taboo/radical, not vulgar or erotic.I've seen drag kings that obviously had acting chops. The local one basically does a Magic Mike impression and it sucks. Both in style and execution, but for the lesbians who might enjoy it, it's overt machismo and so, doubly sucky.  Ah, that's too bad. I agree with you, I actually don't even like burlesque much (camp can be fun, but like I said, gets boring). I like original performance and don't think that it needs to be hyper-sexualized at all, and in fact find it sexier when it's not, ironically.I love drag king comedy, too. Some drag queen comedy is great as well, but it's hard to find it without that stereotypical "sassy" woman role.Is it normal for drag kings to act like exotic dancers? The ones I have been watching on Youtube are amazing performance artists and dancers (as well as makeup and wardrobe artists, clearly). I haven't seen any drag kings in person yet, sadly. I don't think they even have a presence in my city.No, not normal, but the drag queens do it too. Maybe it's just this troupe, but it's weird and like, a lot of straight women and married couples go. Fuckin heteros... ;)OT: Do you happen to have a link to that essay? I'd love to read it.  Hey! It's an a compilation of essays for a class I teach, actually. I forget the name of the author, but I will try to find it and see if I can find a link to it online for you!Thank you so much! I want to read it myself, but I also think one of my daughters would appreciate it.I quite enjoy drag kings. I haven't seen many (most drag shows have been dominated by drag queens) but the ones I have seen have been pretty great. Most of them have put together really cool performances. One drag king troup I saw did a whole performance of 'Grease Lightning' from Grease, only with a tricycle. It was great.I have zero interest in the scene (even though I am a GNC woman and am attracted to women, including butch women). Im sure its fun, though.Heres what does interest me: Women can do whatever the fuck they want. As a class, we dont harass, abuse, terrorize, rape, kill, mutilate, overpower, over-compete, or subjugate men. Many of us want to escape from them.From here, its an easy compare and contrast essay assignment to discuss drag queens and trans women vs. drag kings.Or, as I heard in class back when we had Womens Studies and not Queer (what about the mens?) Theory: You cant oppress the oppressor.Sorry, maybe I woke up on the cranky side of the bed today.The last drag king performance I saw was a cringy, tired striptease. She was dressed as a priest and tore off the robe to reveal swinging tassels and then did a little anal beads / rosary bit. I don't know why but I just felt sad for her.I don't like drag in general (I know, I should turn in my lesbian card). I've seen it done cleverly like maybe once.And I don't think it translates well onto a woman dressing as a man because the whole joke with drag queens is that it's inherently hilarious to be a woman. I've never had a drag king show me how it's inherently hilarious to be a man. I like the idea of making men look ridiculous by dressing up as one, I've just never seen anyone pull it off.  I HATE the idea of it being a strip performance...drag queens are not! Drag should have nothing to do with burlesque! Ugh.I dont like it if its eroticized, but I do like it if it pokes fun at machismo. Ive thought about doing it and even have a character idea!  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Im interested. Im still not quite sure what a discord is, even though I have the app.Im close to retirement, this makes separatism more achievable once out of the work environment. My wife and I dream about building a small, affordable womens retirement community.That sounds nice, all the luck for you  We really should have one. Or a discord. Something where we can discuss it.Edit: I'd be down for making a discord server if anyone wants to help me run it.I will helpI would like such a place..Me tooI think there was but it was inactive or something  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Oh fuck, that's awesome!Uterine cancer, cervical cancer, warts, so incredible what she's doing!Wow, this is really exciting! This is really going to save lives!Awesome ! Let's keep on fighting this disease by also vaccinating girls... AND boys.Thats amazing. If only there were more women in medical research historically and today; a lot more diseases that mostly affect women would have been dealt with. Thank you, Doctor!I'm super excited about this.I was diagnosed with HPV in my early teens (thanks rapist scum),  they did a kryo,  ALL of my paps since then have came back good.When the vaccine finally came out, I was too old. Now,  women my age can take it (37) but my insurance won't cover it This gives me hope, our bodies are amazing AND scary; I can't wait to see how this plays out in the states (tho the FDA is shit as is our health care).Thanks to HPV I grew a cyst the size of a grapefruit that took my right ovary with it. I was born just a couple of years before the HPV vaccination became mandatory in the US. I never want another woman to suffer like I have.Amazing! Bravo!!! This is a really exciting breakthrough. Wow.Wonderful!Wow!!!!!!  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.This violation of your clearly stated preferences is part of their kink. I would advise you speak on the phone or FaceTime before you meet them. That might help.I second the FaceTime (or any video chat you have) suggestion. This is just a good way to verify the identity of anyone you have been talking to on a dating app.Isn't FaceTime phone number-based? Maybe a different vid/call app that doesn't require you to give out your number? A person willing enough to troll you off the bat will most likely have time/energy to troll/harass you even after turning them down.Ooh good point. I think you can also use FT with google voice. Im pretty sure GV will generate a phone number for you to use but Ive never used it before so idk if you have to pay or not.Skype, discord, zoom  or slack are good for thisGetting over my aversion to phone conversations/facetime etc. would be a worth it in this case. That's a good idea.I feel worried for your safety in general after reading your post.  I'm glad you meet in public places, but yes, please talk on the phone first.This is why I struggle to believe all people who transition are fragile vulnerable people who we should handle delicately.  Someone genuinely dysphoric and unhappy about being male bodied surely wouldn't deliberately put themself in a situation where they are going to be rejected because of it.I've thought about googling them afterward, or following links on their profile to other social media to see if they make sad posts about some evil cis bitch rejecting them again. When I see TIMs talking about getting rejected after a date or several dates for being trans I just think... OK but you could have avoided that in the first place. And if you suggest that it's like "BUT WHAT IF I GET MURDERED?" yeah, what if? Wow, look at that, you can somewhat relate to how women feel about interactions with strange men... strange men like you. :/Yeah, potentially getting murdered on a date is part of womanhood, what the fuck are they complaining about?You wanted it, you got it.I bet that's just how Evie Amati's victim felt. He had the bad luck to encounter a TIM that was rejected and was nearly axe murdered. And LITERALLY nearly axe murdered.One of the scariest videos I've ever seen period.All of them, the two people in the store, the homeless man, and another person who spotted Amati walking towards them with the ax, are lucky to be alive.The same way anyone could? You meet up with strangers, you take that risk.I'm not OPThat is bullshit to get rape-culture pity sex. You don't owe him shit, not even a coffee. He lied to you. There are plenty of libfem handmaidens claiming they would never turn down a tim, let them find one of these girls, or date another TIM if he is so convinced Tims are just like women.or date another TIM if he is so convinced Tims are just like women.Right??!!! There's so much to unpack in this behavior, and I'm not a professional so it's daunting.There is an element of self-harm -- voluntarily subjecting oneself to the pain of certain rejection.There's also an element of martyrdom -- knowingly putting oneself into the role of the "victimized oppressed" when they could just as easily not.And an element of contagion -- they've very likely seen other people post wildly dramatic stories of heroically confronting "terfs" and they want a wildly dramatic story that makes them look like a sympathetic hero too.And a strong element of coercion -- this creepy attitude of "Your sexual preferences are incorrect and, even though you don't agree and specifically asked me not to, I'm here to correct them for you."They may genuinely be dysphoric and unhappy about being male-bodied -- but what they get out of pulling this shit (feeling like a martyr/super oppressed victim who deserves everyone's pity and admiration, feeling like they're part of a larger group or movement, feeling like an activist, feeling a sense of control over an "uncontrollable" other) vastly outweighs the sting of rejection.The rejection may be the painful but essential trigger for all that other fun stuff they like. Maybe for them, being rejected (especially by someone who refuses to acknowledge their magical transmogrified womanhood) justifies the utter shittiness of ignoring her preferences and violating her boundaries -- they invite that rejection so that they can then violate lesbian boundaries without qualms.There is also the social lies aspect.  A lot of TIMs like to lie their arses off about how they blew a cab driver without the driver knowing they were trans, or how thousands of women throw themselves at the TIM all the time.  When you couple such frequent lies with the lies told about the appearance of TIMs - the ugliest TIM will have women pretending he is the most beautiful woman ever - and they all think they pass perfectly because of these lies.  It is actually possible that some of these men really do truly believe they can either pass easily and so trick the person they are trying to date, or that they are so stunningly beautiful they will convert a lesbian into loving dick.There is a fair bit of delusion inside the mind that truly believes it can change sex just by saying "I am a woman," so the idea that they have deluded themselves in dating too isn't far fetched to me.Yep.  Well-said.  Childfree women get this all the time on dating sites:  creeps inboxing them & telling them how wonderful THEIR kids are or trying to convince them they're wrong & will change their minds.  Having preferences while being female in the dating world is not taken kindly by men.  Thank God I'm lesbian (except for this whole transbian thing which is making even being homosexual difficult).Of course they know what will happen. They know that they will make a lesbian feel uncomfortable at best and threatened at worst. They know and they still do it, because that is what they want.No man with an ounce of respect for you or themselves would do that. You owe them nothingJust keep leaving. You don't owe them anything. They're just wasting your time.That's my plan so far, hopefully it works out in the future.You're taking precautions, I see no issue. Good luck :)Thanks. :)Keep leaving. They should not be wasting your time. Block them from contacting you again, this is a man with a lesbian fetish, and he is expecting you to provide him with a live porn experience. He doesn't care what you want.this is a man with a lesbian fetishThis is a man who wants to have sex with a womanTheyre men, men dont care if theyre twice your age, if youve never met them, if you have a boyfriend, if youre a lesbian, if theyre hideously ugly, they still think every woman theyre interested in should give them a chance. And by chance I mean you should have sex with them.Just the tip though right?Maybe this is just the people I know - but there is a recurring theme in my LGBT circles where a trans person describes dating someone who was initially resistant but then was won over by their charisma, intelligence and sex appeal. I hear this again and again. It seems to be a two-fold way of asserting one's sexual magnetism while also saying "cis people don't know what's good for them." So I can see these guys convincing themselves that you'll change your mind.If there was ever a gigantic glaring sign that this is men's rights activism, that's it. Only men boast and brag about sexual coercion and assault."cis people don't know what's good for them."How do you know youre really a lesbian if youve never tried cock?She just needs a good rogering to change her mindYou just havent met the right man yet... except this is TOTALLY different because this time the man is wearing lipstick, which has magically changed the whole dynamic and makes him a delicate little victim.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Big hearts and ignorance.  At least for those I know.  You're right, they're not stupid, but their own desire for everyone to feel good about themselves, for everyone to feel welcome, for everyone to feel like the best version of themself blinds them to the reality of it all.They hear the question "how would you want to be treated if you felt like you were born in the wrong body?" And they think "I would want people to accept me as I felt I was."  They've forgotten about whatever part of their life where they didn't like something about themself or their body.  They forget that they came to terms with it, either accepting those parts of themselves they didnt like or learning to in fact love those parts.  None but the most extreme narcissists loved their bodies exactly as it was their entire life.  We all adjusted to our bodies as they changed over time, or made the cosmetic changes we felt we could.  We did not insist the rest of the world acknowledge us as what we wanted to be (whether its tall, brunette, skinny, different skin tone, etc), we had to acknowledge ourselves as we are.We are also being fed psychological and physiological non-sense that seems fact based enough for people to swallow.  First it was "gender dysphoria is a mental disorder, and the proper treatment is sex reassignment surgery."  Now its not a mental disorder, its a physiologic one.  The male/female brain.  And the only way to fix this medical condition is to accept the person for whatever they say they are.So good, smart, normally reasonable people drink the kool-aid, because who wants to feel like their actions are causing psychological harm to someone else?  Its easier to say "yes, james, transwomen are women.  You are a woman" and go on with their day because they dont notice the legislative and social changes that will affect all our lives.Ill add that most people here have been the biggest cheerleaders at some point. Its usually a wake-up call when some new bit of doctrine starts to directly affect your world view or self-interest. Youre a lesbian and told youre a bigot. You play womens basketball and find yourself facing a man on the court. Your womens scholarship goes to a man. Your rapist says hes a woman now. Weve all got a lot of stories about what changed our minds, but as women we unfortunately very good at prioritizing being kind over being analytical.When I thought it was about how you present yourself I was fine with it.  I'm still ambivalent about that part.  I truly don't care if someone presents as the opposite gender, legally changes their name, etc.  And even though I think hormones and genital mutilation surgery is a horrible idea, its not my business what an adult and their doctor decide to do.It becomes my business when my rights are infringed upon.  When my spaces are taken away.  When the freedoms of women are restricted because policy to include transwomen automatically means loss of protections for biological women.  Plus its the responsibility of society as a whole to try and protect kids.  Putting grade school kids on puberty blockers is not protecting them, its harming them.  If their parents are too stupid to see that then the rest of us have to speak out for them.Some are just stupid, kind but stupid.Lol, well theres always some of those.We are definitely being primed to believe this. Its very clear that financial interests are involved somewhere along the line of pushing this propaganda - whether its pharma (lifelong hormones!) or a transgender person/their loved one who has a lot of money, it exists. Why else would preteens be encouraged to mutilate their bodies and sterilize themselves? Its insane.Even if you buy the garbage that barely any person who transitions regrets it (they are just silenced by the transactivists like radical feminists) this isnt regretting a nose job or even a career choice. You cant always go back to how you were before hormones let alone SRS. Womens voices dont always return to their normal pitch, men definitely cant get the same dick back, not to mention while social approval exists I cant imagine living life as a trans person is all that great except for the male predators who are getting exactly what they want (access to vulnerable women) who are much greater in number than anyone will let on (THEY ALWAYS ARE! who among us hasnt been physically or sexually assaulted by a man? Violent predators are everywhere!)I had an eating disorder when I was younger. I got tacit social approval for being more conventionally attractive but nobody would have called my mental illness valid for real. Imagine if a slow attempted suicide was encouraged by society? My heart weeps for young girls today. Pregnancy certainly isnt desirable for every woman but its more than that - you are taking your body and making it greatly less functional in some ways. It is self-harm.This.  Virtue programming.  Putting the question the other way round is also important: what makes some people able to resist or overcome their programming and take the giant risk of being gender critical?In my case, having a body of well-supported info in favor of GC and Radfem.Being able to come here and have info logically laid out helped a lot. I could take things I've experienced in my own life, or otherwise know to be true about sexism, and see those points made in gc arguments.As others said, it's out of a desire to be nice and being told that acknowledging biological sex is bigotry. TRAs are riding the coattails of other civil rights movements. They're out there saying, for example, that transphobia is just like racism; not wanting a transwoman in your bathroom is just like white women not wanting black women in their bathrooms. Racism is widely accepted as horrifying, and nobody wants to be accused of that. Insinuating that it's comparable to transphobia and that transphobes will be on the wrong side of history just like racists were is enough to shut down dissent real quick.Also, I think some people just always need to be mad and "woke" about something. With the gay marriage issue largely resolved, trans issues filled the vacuum.With the gay marriage issue largely resolved, trans issues filled the vacuum.Yes, people simplistically believe "trans is the new gay, and by golly I'm going to be accepting AF"!Once upon a time I didn't think much about it at all and so when it started becoming more prominent, I just figured what many figure, "It's not hurting anyone, so who cares?"  I never believed, and most people do not believe, not actually not truly.  They don't believe.  But, shrug, it's not hurting anyone, right? So no big deal.  Also, doctors are for it, so.... And the surgery changes things.  And....For the most part it's all because they haven't actually stopped to think about it, not really, not deeply.  Once you dig though you start to see, oh it IS hurting people, a lot of people and holy shit it is actually hurting me without me even realising it, and hell what if one of my daughters becomes/is a tomboy or a lesbian, what is going to happen to them?Also people are terrified, terrified of wrongthink and being burned at the stake for being a witch TERF.I once even wrote a blog post supporting trans people in opposite bathrooms, my logic was sound and I still believe it is, not that it matters.  I didn't believe that trans women are women, but I pretended to for brownie points, to preempt any possible questions of whether I was trans supportive or not, and also to show off my awesome logicking.  It was part fear and part showing off.  It's insane.I am the same way. A few years ago, I would have parroted "transwomen are women!"... TO DEFEND THEM against hatred and bigotry. I never actually believed they were women. But they are humans, deserving of respect and I still feel that way. I thought they were human beings who suffered terrible dysmorphia, and it made their lives a little easier to just blindly acknowledge them as women and be as kind and supportive as possible.However, I didn't realise all the ramifications that would come out of that. Which is the stuff we discuss in GC all the time. I remember when Bruce-fucking-Jenner was named Woman of the Year as soon as he came out, I was instantly livid... Oh great, now they've found a way to even make A MAN the Woman of the Year. A man who has spent his life winning everything. Fucking BS. Get the fuck outta here.They've taken the foothold they got with the kindness  people have them initially and really spun it into something no one would believe possible even 5 years ago all this shit would be ludicrous.Most people are not aware of all the creeping legislation, and at least my straight friends with daughters, when I explain to them what's happening in American schools, they see the logic and the urgency to keep the crazy at bay here (I'm in Australia). I don't know if it's too late or not.We are not immune in Aus, no.  NT quietly changed the laws to allow sex self ID or close to, Tas is trying to push the self ID law through.  Evie Amati, the axe murderer we all know about was in a womens prison, still is maybe? I haven't seen.  So far the men who go to womens prisons are castrated via sex emulation surgery, but if each state allows self ID, that limit won't last long.  And then there is the upcoming political party, The Womens Party........... founded and headed by a TIM.  Safe Schools, great for helping out with normalisation of homosexuality, but it doesn't stop there does it, makes me super glad I homeschool.  And then there is the poor journalist who keeps getting taken to court because she called a man a man - and the courts keep allowing him to do it instead of charging him for wasting their time with such idiocy.  The Uni in Sydney rolling out the all gender toilets because people complained that the unisex toilets weren't inclusive enough.I think the list just goes on and on like that.  New Zealand are fighting really hard right now too and some of those brave women are really getting hated on, it's awful.Thanks for pointing all that out. It really creeping legislation, because I wasnt aware of all that. That Enmore 7/11 where "Evie" Amati attacked people is literally around the corner from where I grew up and I still spend a lot of time in Enmore/Newtown so it was really shocking for me.It's time to get more involved.Yeah not much of it reaches the more mainstream news and websites, if any of them, so it's hard to know about them unless you actively search through specific databases, and you have to know which ones to search.  I only know because I am in Aussie radfem groups on Facebook and everyone shares what they find.  It's amazing how much was just not on my radar before I joined groups like that and even subs like this.I hope you don't mind, I'm going to inbox you, I'd like to join those Aussie Rad Gem groups too.No problem :)Ultimately, nearly every human being wants to be liked. We crave affirmation. I believe that the media is heavily involved in the rapid progression of the trans movement. For what reason? I'm still unsure although I have my suspicions that perhaps other radfems wouldn't agree with. Because the media has been pushing the trans movement so heavily, people don't want to be left out of the current narrative and risk being on the 'wrong side' of history. It's understandable, I tried for years to try to accept that trans women were the same as bio women because I thought that was how I was supposed to think.Although we like to believe we're all independent thinkers, we are so heavily influenced by our environment and the media we choose to consume.I'm interested in hearing your suspicions about the reason behind medias obsession with trans peopleA lot of powerful people,especially in tech, are funding and pushing transgender ideology.  The media gets their agenda from them.Sounds reasonable so far.  Buying networks, newspapers and digital print sites is usually part of the new billionaire starter pack.So why do the tech and other powerful people want to push this agenda?Because they want to. It either financially benefits them or personally benefits them. Possibly both.There's a lot of TIMs in it and they're socially awkward to boot, the field attracts TIMs though because it's easy to be invisible while working and making good money. Add in the whole "transhumanism" bullshit and it's fueled by technocrats. And of course it's a male dominated field so they're going to bring that general gamer vibe, porn, anime, sexism, misogyny,  right into transactivism with them.  And it is ugly.I do believe trans women are more than just men.  But trans women are not women.  Leftism has a problem with the race to accept anything that is non-mainstream.I dont believe they are more or less just men at all because all being a man means is that you have the chromosomes to give you a dick instead of a vagina. Gender is an arbitrary social construct placing man above woman on a hierarchy.I absolutely agree.  It's all in the DNA--even though some people will insist on living their fantasies and fetishes which depend upon sex stereotypes.  Even so, doing that should not rise to a legal existence which affects society itself which is forced to bend itself to those fantasies and fetishes, and which contradicts biology.I think they are "extra" men.  It takes an extramale level of ego and narcissism to think you can claim an identity of a subjugated class, and then demand that subjugated class not only accept, but actively validate, your fantasies.  A lot of privilege goes on, they have little risk. Many have no interest in sports themselves, or won't ever be in a shelter or prison.  Females aren't fighting for the right not to have to share gender norms like attire, they're fighting for spaces free of male dominance and to define what it means to be a female, especially when it comes oppression because of biology. If they're only in relatively safe spaces, have full access to reproductive rights, they won't care about what it's like for poorer females. Add in a lot of liberal people are GNC themselves, so it's not a leap for them to go with whatever their tribe is going for, it's not so much drinking Kool Aid as they have more to lose not going along than they do going along. If they are intelligent a lot of it comes down to weighing risks.  They want to be nice and they dont realize the ways in which it hurts women yet. They figure theres no reason not to go along with it if it helps people and its not hurting anyone. I used to feel this way until I realized that it actually hurts women to go along with this.The brutal rape of a young girl by her uncle has become a rallying point in Sierra Leone for a campaign that has pushed President Julius Maada Bio to declare the prevalence of sexual violence a national emergency. The five-year-old girl, whose identity has been kept secret for her own safety, has been paralysed from the waist down since a 28-year-old male relative raped her a year ago, crushing her spine. "She may never walk again, and I want vengeance for what has happened," her grandmother told the Reuters news agency, sitting next to the girl in her wheelchair in a Freetown medical clinic.The fact that there are people in this world who believe cis privilege is a thing makes me sick. This planet is hell for girls and women, specifically because they are girls and women.I'd crosspost this to r/cisprivilegeisalieOh god, that's so fucking heartbreaking. Poor, poor girl. Bastard needs to suffer.Dont believe in the death penalty except for humans like that one.Who sees a 5yo and thinks either "I want to put my penis in her" or "I want to prove that I can exert power over her by putting my penis in her" ?! It's so sick.For animals like that its euthanasia.No words, glad he is stepping up, and I got dizzy reading about the girl.The poor, poor girl. I have no words really. Apart from that he deserves the death penalty.The president has got it right.  Rape of a minor should attract the most severe punishment.  I wish other governments would recognise this (am still haunted by a case in Northern Ireland where a man raped a new born.  I hope he is lynched).Considering the reaction from most African leaders in regards to rape and abuse of women, this is a big step up for them.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Completely agree.  Their latest theory for a biological basis for transgenderism is the brain is exposed to too many opposite sex hormones in utero which makes them have an opposite sex brain.  Yet this supposed hormonal imbalance somehow doesn't affect the body at all and these people physically develop normally.  This makes no sense.I agree with you about males having male brains but I thought we all start with both reproductive tracts (wolfien and mullerian) is that disproven now, does anyone know?Not both reproductive tracts, because the reproductive tract is the entire developed system (either male or female) necessary for reproduction.  So in a female it's the ovaries, uterus, cervix and vagina.What we all start with are very simple ducts called the Wolffian and  Mullerian ducts.  Under the influence of proteins produced by genes on the sex chromosomes these will develop into either the male or female reproductive tracts.Ok thanks for the clarification!Yes. Male brains are in male bodies. Ditto female.Most of the differences between the brain residing in a male body and the one in a female body is due to body size, and if there were distinct male brains you'd see a difference in function yet all human children develop motor control skills like walking and cognitive function predictably absent developmental issues. Otherwise, you're subscribing to the old Victorian ideas of women being destined for domestic life and men for public life, due to ideas about the capability. But nothing about your sex says anything as to what a person might be capable of doing or what their personality is like absent the obvious biological difference of having a uterus or not and how that might change your life.On top of that there is the influence of the environment and the body, which differs by sex. It isn't possible that a person is influenced by the reproductive category they aren't born with, knowing you are the sex that can bear a child fundamentally changes your life and a person born male could never understand that experience. It certainly doesn't make women go through their mothers and sisters undie draw to get off, but this is a common narrative to "prove" they are a woman.The hormone idea doesn't wash because the foetus itself produces the hormones which drive sex differentiation, where's these other hormones coming from and why don't they affect the whole body like they do the opposite sex?TRAs doesn't believe that. They believe that male and female brains are different at some innate level and males can be born with a female brain that makes them like makeup and dresses. Coincidently this is the same thing MRAs like Jorden Peterson believe and is an outdated concept that men came up with in the 19th century to deny women jobs and education.Feminists on the other hand believe that a brain is a brain and the structure of your brain is shaped by your experiences and socialisation. Look up the studies done by Israeli scientist Daphna Joel (she also has some lectures on youtube) and read Delusions of Gender by Cordelia Fine.  TRAs claim that their movement is progressive and anti-gender roles, yet their entire argument for trans ideology is based on being born with a "female brain" or "male brain", but with the "wrong body". I see some of them coming on here and spewing that bullshit, and literally every time single time anyone posits what is so blatantly obvious...that trans ideology is just reinforcing sexist gender roles...the answers trans supporters always give end up being either the brain sex bullshit or some ridiculous gender stereotypes.It is really baffling how they reconcile being "progressive" with the patriarchal oppressive shit they use to "support" their stance. Women have fought for so long to not be limited and oppressed because misogynists believe we have little ladybrains that make us only capable of thinking and being a certain way...yet that shit is still rampant. And now it's not only from the horrid right-wing MRA redpiller types, but from people claiming to be leftist and progressive.As for OP's question...yes. Even if their own dumb bullshit was true...the very same testosterone level that gave that male fetus a penis would give him a male brain.  And here we reach what is so laughable about all of this. Their entire ideology just falls apart completely at the slightest of examination.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.When men can be equated with women, and especially those self-identifying and retaining their penises, then why can't other men (I assume the furry employee was male) be equated with tomcats?Undoubtedly, he had "felt" feline for a very long time, and knew what it is to be a cat.A major tech company: I wonder if all that time in cyberspace causes some programmers to lose touch with material reality?Edited for accuracy.Yeah, since it's an anecdotal story coming down the chain from several conversations it's hard to say if its really true.  that said, if it is it wouldn't be all that surprising.  And while this is kind of a slippery slope argument-- as soon as you start legitimizing people's internal realities ("i'm a man but feel like I'm a woman! I demand rights!") what's to stop more and more absurd claims asking for validation?I think the 'non-binary' label did that for trans. It's one thing to alter the definitions of 'women' or 'men' but it really is another step to create an entirely new category that is undefined, yet still requires pronoun acknowledgement etc.Yeah, since it's an anecdotal story coming down the chain from several conversations it's hard to say if its really true.I'm very skeptical.  Maybe they did file a lawsuit, but if so, I'm sure nobody was every worried it ever had a chance.  Probably immediately dismissed.I don't accept Damore's conservative beliefs concerning women, but those statements about furries and otherkin at Google were made in his (Damore's) actual lawsuit. And, if social media internet platforms and mainstream media censure feminists for saying that trans women are men, perhaps they're censuring news about other trans identities that might hurt the transactivist agenda?Edited for clarity.Nobody said a lawsuit, Sam said it was an HR complaint.It sounds a little apocryphal to me since I think a lolsuit like that would have attracted media attention by now. I could buy a furry trying to armtwist HR, but filing suit opens up the complaint to public scrutiny.I'm not going to lie though, if it is true, I want someone to report on it yesterday for the lulz.I just listened to it; Harris didn't say it was a lawsuit. According to the story, the furry just went to HR about the issue.Sorry. Thanks for correcting me. Good that you took the time to do that. But, if it is true, it's pretty far out there that an employee could identify as a cat, and then go to HR to complain that he wasn't provided a litter box in the toilet.I've known plenty of people in tech and believe me, I've seen worse.It wouldn't shock me if this story was true though. Furry is a fetish too and it seems kinksters these days have serious boundary issues and demand to include everyone in it.I wonder if all that time in cyberspace causes some programmers to lose touch with material reality?I have long believed this - too much time in the virtual world severs them from the material world.  And one reason so many trans in tech.There's a lot more at play, but it should definitely be studied and profiled. The correlation is clearly there. From reading how this type of trans develops (tech savvy, not sporty/outgoing growing up, internet as the main source of social interaction, deep interest in anime, heavy porn use, autistic comorbidity) it's a surprise there isn't an alternative diagnosis because it has everything to do with detached isolation and nothing to do with how women are.The media we take in and create for ourselves is powerful; it imprints in the brain, and can even get 'stuck' there, regardless of how fantastic the content."Watch your thoughts, they become your words; watch your words, they become your actions; watch your actions, they become your habits; watch your habits, they become your character; watch your character, it becomes your destiny.I have observed that several of our trans bretheren on Reddit generally have little problem with dishonesty in themselves or others, and are quick to assume dishonesty in others as well. If lying to oneself becomes normalized, it does not seem all that unreasonable then to start assuming that all others do/can/will lie to themselves also.Lol I feel like that story was definitely not true. But still, saying you feel like something you are not is so dumb and meaningless.I would absolutely love if Sam had Megan Murphy on his show. I havent listened to him in a long time, but I remember him being someone who is open to rational debate and he will change his views if you provide a good argument.From what I remember, he does believe in male and female brains and also is not someone that supports radical feminism (hes read Dworkin and just disagrees with her); however, I think he would agree with Megan on some things and be open to a rational discussion with her about the current issues women are facing with trans ideology.That would be a great discussion!Yes, I would love to see a discussion between Sam Harris and Meghan Murphy.I'm a person of faith, and he's a prominent atheist, but I've always found him to be the most reasonable of atheist activists. Also, I really appreciate his commitment to civil discourse...as he says, it may be due to his hours upon hours of meditation.Hopefully her name being brought up twice this week will bring more people researching the matter.In the beginning of the pod rogan says Dorsey will be returning specifically to address censorship on twitter, and rogan is compiling instances of twitter bans to discuss with him.  He is somewhat aware of Meghan Murphy, him and Sam mention it around 5:45, but if he hears from radfems about Meghan and others who have been deplatformed he can ask more pointed questions next time.Reach out.  Arm him with info.I have, right from the time her ban happened. It's just frustrating to see him so readily have Jamie pull up literally anything else yet not look deeply into this aside from asking extremely basic questions to Harris and Pool.Hopefully he will ask some in depth questions next time Dorsey is on.  I sent my emailI wish people would put themselves in our shoes. Im not transphobic. Ill call you by whatever the fuck you want me to. I dont hate trans women. I just dont want to fuck them. Im a lot more lenient than most on this sub. I just believe people should be allowed to do whatever the fuck and although I dont understand it, is it my business to the extent of what they want to do to themselves? Not really.This whole new age philosophy that a trans womens artificial vag/dick is inherently a female body part is harmful to gay women.Im homosexual. I didnt chose to be a homo. I just am. Which means I like the same sex. Which is dependent upon your assignment at birth. Which is whats in your pants. I dont want an artificial vagina. I dont want one made from a penis. I want a vagina.Its homophobia. Years ago we were fighting for the right to be openly gay because thats just how we are. Now we are being told to change how we are.You can be a trans woman, but since you probably lived a large portion of your life as male, you are still victim to male conditioning. All of this lesbians have to like all women bullshit, stems from men policing who and what women are attracted to.I dont hate trans women. I just dont want to fuck them. Im a lot more lenient than most on this sub.A big misunderstanding is conflating trans individuals with trans ideology. If "sympathizing with trans individuals" means "accepting trans ideology", it only follows that not accepting trans ideology is hating trans identified people.We all started being understanding of trans identified people, but realized along the way that trans activist's idea of compromise is a totalitarian takeover of female spaces and the distortion of material reality. When you start to see what it actually entails through laws and discourse, it's hard to be so lenient.Im a lot more lenient than most on this sub.You are very new here. Most of us start out "not wanting to be haters but something doesn't add up." After reading the sub for a while, you see different situations and read various reactions to them. We have wicked smart posters here who are generous explaining the radical feminist analysis.Most of us start out "not wanting to be haters but something doesn't add up." After reading the sub for a while, you see different situations and read various reactions to them.Yep that would be me.Ive been pretty familiar with gender critical theory for an actual longer while. I just didnt want to get banned from subs where I made friends.One day I wake up check reddit, and I got banned from a sub I used a lot for an insufficient reason. So instead of never posting in fear of bans and just lurking, I have nothing to lose.I personally wont change my belief that you technically can be whatever the fuck you want. It may be a poor decision on their part, but I have no right to tell them they cant. Ill use whatever pronouns, because I do believe being transgender is valid, just not transsexual.Now Im not saying theres not smart people on this sub. But if someone wants to be trans and they arent hurting anybody, is it any of my business? No. Same logic applies to my sexuality. You can hate it all you want, but Im not bothering.Modern TRA doesnt not give a fuck about these boundaries however, and is what I have a problem with.it isn't really about individual people and their choices at this point. if it was it wouldn't be an issue. the fact is that there is a powerful lobby group with lots of money trying to expand the definition of woman to include men and this actively hurts women and girls. not to mention all the experiments we're running on kids in the name of transgenderism.I agree with that. But I personally dont think its harmful if they stay out of our spaces.I wish people would put themselves in our shoes.Me too! I've imagined myself as a TIF.  I can understand why they do it, what makes it attractive.  What I won't get is any empathy back from the TRA side, that's for sure.This whole new age philosophy that a trans womens artificial vag/dick is inherently a female body part is harmful to gay women.Yes, and to all women as well.  My vagina is completely different from a surgically made wound in someone's body and it's insulting that they are even called vaginas.Im homosexual. I didnt chose to be a homo. I just am. Which means I like the same sex.Yeah, and the difference between gay people and trans people: they don't want to bother anyone, they just want to have relationships with other homos and be left alone.  TRAs want to reshape reality and change other people.  From what i can tell, for gay people it's about freedom, for trans, it's about control.Yeah, and the difference between gay people and trans people: they don't want to bother anyone, they just want to have relationships with other homos and be left alone.  TRAs want to reshape reality and changeotherpeople.  From what i can tell, for gay people it's about freedom, for trans, it's about control.Spot on!Put a label on it, and people will actually think it's real and not the least bit fake.Sam needs to have Meghan on his podcast. I'm otherwise happy he knows of her and is willing to criticize the dominant narrative on gender ideology.They talked about free speech as it related to trans issues for a few minutes in between defending the Google Memo guy and the Tosh rape "joke". These are all really, really different situations.These guys think of themselves as principled, reasonable defenders of free speech, but actually they're just angry about any time someone gets in trouble for something they said. There's no regard for the situation or the harm that was our could be caused by what was said.Yeah the brief mention was great and will probably have good effects for visibility, but the rest of the talk was pretty cringe. Apparently women need to lighten up on rape jokes, Me too is overboard, and face it there are differences between men and women (fine) like women might just not want to be in tech (ugh).Like... The argument still stands he has a right to free speech but I think we should be putting twelve caveats on support of this pod.Linkwhich begs the question...why is this shit being posted on a radical feminist subShort but Interesting.Murphy also got brought up on the follow up episode today with Tim Pool where they discussed the crazy ass banning going on and the left eating itself. Sometimes productive, sometimes not.I've always thought Sam Harris to be a smart guy!  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.When I was 16, I was struggling with my sexuality and I thought that I was gay.  My friend hooked me up with a friend of hers that was also available.  Well, we got together and we started fooling around, always her touching me.  Come to find out, a MONTH of dating, she tells me that shes actually a TIM.  I felt violated but I didnt know what else to think so I said that I was okay with it even though I felt like I was lied to.  It turned out to be the most manipulative and abusive relationship ever.I don't know. It sounds like he wasn't an active participant in what was going on, which isn't enthusiastic consent. The fact that he 'woke up' means he was HAMMERED, and if someone is that drunk they are going to be like a fish out of water. It's obvious that it wasn't consent. I'm a fan of enthusiastic consent... If one party is sleeping, wasted, frozen, it is not enthusiastic consent.I also believe that we need to have a spectrum of legal terms that surround rape. For example, ee don't just have "murder", there is first degree, second degree, third degree and manslaughter for accidents. And although I don't think that "accidental" rapes happen very often, I do think we need to have terminology for cases that are misunderstandings or miscommunications. (especially because victims can feel violated and raped and it may be lack of education on consent).However, the processing of rape kits show that there is a large number of reoffenders and criminal psychologists believe that rapists are serial sexual predators, that don't stay in their lanes. (a rapist is likely to target adults and children, which is something that we didn't realize before).What about in cases where someone consents enthusiastically, and then something happens during the sex that makes them too fearful to stop the sex? I just think we need another layer and it makes sense to me that you should be able to stop it as easily as you could start it.Any reasonable person would know that guy was in no shape for sex. It actually sounds like he might have been drugged. Not all cases are that black and white though.I fully agree that we need to define some of these gray area cases. They probably happen more often than we even realize since we either define them as rape and are told we're wrong, or we just live with our discomfort over what happened because we don't think it's a big enough issue to be called rape.There are far too many rape kits that haven't been processed to make a determination about rapists, imo.There are far too many rape kits that haven't been processed to make a determination about rapists, imo.https://boingboing.net/2017/12/18/11341-abandoned-rape-kits-ide.html.https://thedaily.case.edu/new-research-shows-know-dont-serial-rapists/Your opinion isn't matching up to objective fact and what criminal psychologists and scientists are now recognizing and rapists. (the 2hr. video by by Dr russell Strand is a great resource and something all women should listen to).I just think we need another layer and it makes sense to me that you should be able to stop it as easily as you could start it.But it is... However, just like enthusiastic consent, you have to communicate it. There is no way that we can make it a prosecutable offence if you consent to someone freely (which why would you consent to someone who's an asshole... And if he was an asshole and coercing you, then, that's assault because of the coercion). Also, it's incredibly alarming to victimize regret or meh feelings. (that's not to say that you have sex and they force you to do anal or they begin doing BDSM, but the law would technically protect against that (there are precedents that are already set about consenting to only particular sex acts and sodomy isn't included)...I don't know. I have been raped, almost raped, I've had to inflict pain on a police officer after I repeatedly told him no. I have had lots of great sex and a lot of "meh" sex. But it's so scary to me to think that consent can be revoked without any communication. I am having a hard time imagining enthusiastically consenting to someone I couldn't say "no" or "stop" to.Oh wow, I had only heard about the high number of untested rape kits, not about those findings. Not sure if I feel better or worse about most rapists being serial rapists.I didn't say anything about regret - I actually hate it when women decide years down the road that the way they feel about it now matters more than the way they felt about it then (speaking about a specific situation here, an old friend who had a change of heart and posted all over Facebook about how her ex raped her because she wanted to impress him at the time). I fully agree that communication is incredibly important.Some people don't show their true colors until they have sex. Some men are meek or kind in every other aspect, and some women are too afraid to stand up for themselves when his hands are on her throat. Sometimes 99% of the sex is good and then he does that one thing that makes you think he's dangerous. Sometimes it only takes one time of them reacting badly for you to hope it never happens again and fear speaking up if they do something you don't like. Sex often isn't cut and dry, and that's why I think we need more protection and definitions when we talk about or participate in these gray areas.That's a good point. If consent can be revoked at any time, you need to be capable of revoking consent for it to actually be ongoing consent.>you need to be capable of revoking consentYou are. I have been in a lot of shitty sexual situations, but even still, I might not be seeing something... but if I am enthusiastically consenting to something, than I imagine I trust the person enough to tell them no. or stop. Thereby revoking my consent.I can't imagine enthusiastically consenting and then NOT tell them they are hurting me. If I am enthusiastically consenting then yes, I should be able to communicate what feels good. The only situation I can imagine being shocked into silence would be a man surprising me with anal or BDSM, and in that case, the precedent is already set (at least in U.S. law) that you only consent to certain acts. Which is why rape by deception is a punishable offense.Continuous Consent, Enthusiastic consent and so on sound reasonable, but get overtaken by the practicalities, which are:There is often a power imbalance, sometimes physical size, sometimes economic or social pressure that make withdrawing consent impossible.There are usually no other witnesses.Courts of law often do not consider conflicting witness statements of "I did not consent" vs "She consented" to be proof beyond unreasonable doubt.  In addition in many jurisdictions its about whether the rapist believed he had consentThere have been several cases, some involving famous sportsmen where women have been injured or killed and the defence was that it was rough sex, or they were indulging in some sort of BDSM play that went wrong.This needs to be turned round. Sex should not result in injury or death.We seem to be in a position that because some people are into that, once someone has consented to sex of any kind the other person has carte blanche to do what they like provided they say it was sexually motivated.We need to accept that when we have sex with others we have a duty of care that we do not harm them.  This is an extremely thorny and important subject.As an example, in some countries I have never been raped. In some countries, I have been raped exactly twice. In at least one country, I have been raped too many times for me to remember.To clarify, for example, in Germany, until recently the victim had to prove she fought back for a conviction of rape, and I assume that is still the case in other countries (never mind the "four male witnesses" in Saudi Arabia). Now they've changed the law to "must have said no" (I assume "stop" counts). In that case, it's twice.However, the most brutal rape I have experienced apparently was not rape in Germany, because it was a surprise attack, and I was in such pain and shock I was unable to say anything at all. I gritted my teeth and tried to concentrate on not passing out, because I was very afraid he would not notice and when he let me go I would slip and fall and hit my head on a hard surface. I was ambushed from behind and completely unable to defend myself, so of course no fighting back was possible.According to German standards still, in all of the cases in which I was groped and molested I was not assaulted, because I froze (a common response) and did not say "no" and did not try to move away or fight, because I physically could not. Even later in life my freeze response was so strong that it took all I had to muster a "stop" and I was unable otherwise to defend myself from the moment that sexual assault was initiated.In France, in which coercion counts in the definition of rape, I don't even know how many times I was raped in my teens, twenties and early thirties. Until I really tried to meet a nice guy, only to meet and date a rapist, I did not seek help to get to the bottom of this so this would never happen again and I would never ever be a target (without having to, you know, become a nun, or compromise my health). It's one thing to understand revictimization intellectually, and quite another thing to do the work to change inside to protect and respect yourself (and forgive and not blame yourself), and hopefully as a byproduct no longer ping sexual abusers' radar as a good potential victim.This is all rather a conundrum. Things I laughed off as a teenager others would look at me in horror if I told them about, smilingly, because to them they were sexual assault of a minor and to me they were just silly things that happened to me and didn't even factor into the long list of serious abuses I'd experienced. I guess I realized my worldview was somewhat skewed. Defining sexual boundaries, enthusiastic consent, and even my sexual orientation and preferences in the future is basically going to entail entirely starting from scratch (which is a good thing, as all that old nonsense needs to go).Some people don't believe in consent because it's essentially the model of an oppressor rationalizing exploitation of the person he is oppressing. The oppressor gets to define the meaning of consent (this is behind all rape laws), obviously not taking into account any real-life behavior (such as the indirect refusals people are accustomed to in any other situation, or the reality of the freeze response when a person feels threatened). Under this model, women are believed to be in a constant state of consent unless it is revoked. Notice with "maintenance sex" in het relationships this holds true, as female partners are expected to give in while when male partners don't feel like it they don't even begin to take any shit and shut it right down (in most cases, I know female-on-male sexual abuse in relationships does exist).Then there's enthusiastic consent. Enthusiastic, ongoing consent sounds great, except when you realize that it's used to promote activities that are harmful to the person consenting, such as BDSM, prostitution and porn. As long as someone is "enthusiastically consenting" to being burned, bitten, whipped, shocked and strangled, there's nothing wrong. As long as someone is "enthusiastically consenting" (to the point of signing a contract!) to a 24/7 master-slave relationship, there's nothing wrong. As long as someone is "enthusiastically consenting" to being anally penetrated by three men while gagged by three more being filmed all the while, there's nothing wrong. (You get where I'm going with this). Never mind the context of the trauma these women may have endured in the past, and the repetition compulsion, low self-esteem, self-destruction, or addiction which may be fueling these desires, and also ignoring the pressure to be enthusiastically consenting to more and more proposed activities, because, as they say, under liberal feminist patriarchy "consent is sexy, and sexy is mandatory."Others argue that consent cannot exist at all in any contractual condition, because it implies that the person cannot change their mind at any time, which is why commercialism cannot be mixed with sex, as when you sign a contract you are legally bound to it, but you cannot be legally bound to commit sexual acts you may change your mind about. "Well, people just quit jobs all the time," you may say, which is true. However, others would argue that you cannot give hypothetical consent through such contracts for acts that have not been initiated in the natural flow of sexual activity, and that since the consent of contractual workers is all hypothetical consent it is null and void. They cannot claim to know how they will feel about a sexual act in the future, so such contracts (as in porn shoots, and often in prostitution) do not constitute real consent. Furthermore, true consent is impossible under conditions of financial coercion because of the power imbalance and pressure present, and the lack of sexual desire (which it seems pro-porn and prostitution advocates do not see as necessary for sex to take place and does not constitute a salient part of consent), so certainly enthusiastic consent does not exist in commercialized sex, only coerced consent can be said to exist, if it exists at all. (Our jobs are coerced consent, after all; we'd rather be doing something else usually, but without money we would starve). If coercion is antithetical to healthy sexual relationships, ergo sum porn and prostitution even in the absence of trafficking, violence and the exploitation of vulnerable persons is not healthy.Still others will say "you don't 'consent' to hang out with your friend on Friday, you want to." A desire model should replace the consent model.However, that still falls prey to being deployed as a smokescreen for enabling sadism and self-harm. I personally propose a well-being model of sexuality. If you would not give your friend ten pizzas to eat, then don't shock your friend with a cattle prod, either. If you would not buy your drug-addicted friend crack, then don't film your friend being hung by her wrists and whipped, either. If you would not drink with your students and then ask them to drive you home, then don't get involved with them sexually, either. If you would not encourage your friend to continue working a job they hate, then don't sleep with them if they have feelings you don't quite return. Try to seek not only desire--much less the bare minimum of consent--but to be actively cognizant of harm, and try to minimize it as much as possible for potential partners, as well as yourself.A shocking idea, I know, and not any fun. Too bad it might make the world a better place.Not that I do, or claim to understand those that do, but what solution would there be for BDSM then? Some small apparatus like a button that triggers a sound?What is the context of your question? Which part of my long-winded explanation of varying notions of consent are you responding to?Enthusiastic, ongoing consent sounds great, except when you realize that it's used to promote activities that are harmful to the person consenting, such as BDSM, prostitution and porn.Reading that now along with what came directly after it makes me think I had the wrong initial interpretation. I was mentally classifying BDSM and abusive sex as very distinct things.With pre-emptive sexual consentn in the form of contracts, I thought you were saying that would make anything that stops the ability to give consent effectively an illegal sexual act. This made me think of standard BDSM stuff like gags and rope.I think that BDSM is a combination of abuse and self-harm. It is quite literally in the name: sadism and masochism.I don't think we should support other people's efforts to self-harm, regardless of whether it feels good. That's what I meant by "if you would not buy your drug-addicted friend crack, then don't bind, gag and shock your friend with an electric cattle prod just because they say they like it."Now, you can say, "but what if you'd buy your non drug-addicted friend crack? Isn't some drug use, like some BDSM, okay in moderation?"I'd say, depends on the drug. I personally think that fuzzy love cuffs and tickling torture and spanking are pretty harmless, even if they aren't for me. I would not encourage slapping, choking, ball gags or bondage with ropes and gags, no. This is fetishizing, sexualizing, and reproducing violence which has ripple effects in both individuals' lives and the broader culture, and which also readily lends itself to situations of actual rape. "Aftercare" is a  fancy BDSM term for "trauma bonding," and "sub space" is the shock/dissociation after being abused. Having actually been abused, I frankly find it insulting people would fetishize this; however, that is my personal opinion. Empirically speaking, it is actually harmful for people's health (trauma-bonding can lead to abusive relationships, and dissociation during frightening sexual experiences can lead to PTSD).I'm not saying anything about "an illegal act," I'm saying it's an unhealthy act. I think we can say certain sexual acts are healthy or unhealthy, just like we can say certain food groups are healthy or unhealthy, without going out of our way to shame people for eating chips and candy or for liking getting bound with rope or pricked with needles.I have experienced directly what another's desire for BDSM can do, by way of the ripple effect. I am not blaming her, as the man she was married to who later abused me was very disturbed, but I was raped by a man whose wife taught him to pull her hair and choke her during anal sex, although he initially protested these activities and thought them "silly." He pulled my hair despite my asking him to stop, choked me without permission, and forcibly raped me when I said "no" to anal sex. I am not saying this was her fault--he was violent to her to and unstable when they were together, he regularly uses and coerces women and is a sexual narcissist, he has his own natural rapey tendencies. But yes, she took this unstable man who didn't want to choke women, pull their hair, or have rough anal with them, and trained him to enjoy that and to make it his go-to way of interacting with women sexually whenever he felt aggressive or aggravated. This is a pretty straightforward example of how your private behavior with a partner doesn't stop behind your closed doors.And yes, BDSM scenes in which you cannot in some way signal your lack of consent entail an automatic lack of consent, as there is no possible way to know if the person has changed their mind.Consent isn't complicated. Rapists and would-be rapists engage in or support coercion tactics while playing dumb and acting as if it's some confusing mess that "any guy" would have a hard time navigating. Coming up with long drawn-out definitions of consent feeds into their rape propaganda.I can buy that there are plenty of men who don't know it's illegal or "technically rape" (because only rapists or would-be rapists would be concerned about how you can rape without it counting technically as rape) to, say, rape a woman when she's so drunk she's in and out of consciousness, but they know that it's not something the woman wants. They know that it's a violation of the woman, and for many of them, that just helps them get off more (the others are "merely" indifferent to women's wants or suffering). For many men (rapists and would-be rapists), what the woman wants is immaterial. Even many men who have never and will never rape a woman do not particularly care about how much the women he's with enjoy sex and is concerned only with whether he likes the sex. It's the same mentality painted with a thin veneer of social propriety.Men don't need to be educated on consent. They need to be prosecuted and socially separated when they choose to violate it.Consent isn't complicated but it can be complex.Who says i'm trying to educate men and would-be rapists? I think it's important for victims to be able to see another side than just "well I agreed to it"I'm aware of "safe, sane, consensual" and I know it's bullshit. BDSM teaches people (specifically men) to ignore the word no. It conditions other people (specifically women) to accept abuse. The more you participate, the more the lines get blurredWhich is completely irrelevant to the point about consent.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.the relevant part of the article:"Ruby Rose has revealed that she is glad she didn't go forward with gender reassignment surgery as she now wants children of her own.Speaking about her struggles with her identity as a youth, the actress and model, 30, explained she was 'glad' she didn't make changes earlier in her life as she would like babies in the future.Ruby - who is currently dating Jessica Origliasso of The Veronicas - reflected on her desires to change gender, saying she was 'glad' to be a woman.Explaining her mentality as a youngster, she said: 'All I wanted was a boy's name growing up - Charlie, Billie, Max, Frankie. You just know my mum wanted a girly girl princess! She added: 'Everyone had Barbies; I had ninja turtles and Superman... I was crazy about Archie comics and I played footie with the boys.'But the model and actress admitted that she may have regretted making pemanent physical changes at that age, as she explained she was happy being a woman.Talking about accepting her body and finding happiness with it, she said revealed that one day she hoped to have children.'I'm a woman,' she said. ' want to have babies one day, so I'm glad I didn't make changes earlier in my life.'"I wish more libfems said stuff like this, it's important "queer" kids hear it from someone they perceive as a part of their community and not just us "evil terves". I wonder if she got any shit for saying it too.Who knows if she's actually a libfem? Might be a rad but won't admit it as it would end her career in the current "progressive" climate obviouslyShe is only a few years older than

  THANKS to Caitlyn Jenner, and the military’s changing policies, transgender people are gaining acceptance — and living in a bigger, more understanding spotlight than at any previous time.We’re learning to be more accepting of transgender individuals. And we’re learning more about gender identity, too.The prevailing narrative seems to be that gender is a social construct and that people can move between genders to arrive at their true identity.But if gender were nothing more than a social convention, why was it necessary for Caitlyn Jenner to undergo facial surgeries, take hormones and remove her body hair? The fact that some transgender individuals use hormone treatment and surgery to switch gender speaks to the inescapable biology at the heart of gender identity.This is not to suggest that gender identity is simply binary — male or female — or that gender identity is inflexible for everyone. Nor does it mean that conventional gender roles always feel right; the sheer number of people who experience varying degrees of mismatch between their preferred gender and their body makes this very clear.In fact, recent neuroscience research suggests that gender identity may exist on a spectrum and that gender dysphoria fits well within the range of human biological variation. For example, Georg S. Kranz at the Medical University of Vienna and colleagues elsewhere reported in a 2014 study in The Journal of Neuroscience that individuals who identified as transsexuals — those who wanted sex reassignment — had structural differences in their brains that were between their desired gender and their genetic sexDr. Kranz studied four different groups: female-to-male transsexuals; male-to-female transsexuals; and controls who were born female or male and identify as such. Since hormones can have a direct effect on the brain, both transsexual groups were studied before they took any sex hormones, so observed differences in brain function and structure would not be affected by the treatment. He used a high-resolution technique called diffusion tensor imaging, a special type of M.R.I., to examine the white matter microstructure of subjects’ brains.What Dr. Kranz found was intriguing: In several brain regions, people born female with a female gender identity had the highest level of something called mean diffusivity, followed by female-to-male transsexuals. Next came male-to-female transsexuals, and then the males with a male gender identity, who had the lowest levels.In other words, it seems that Dr. Kranz may have found a neural signature of the transgender experience: a mismatch between one’s gender identity and physical sex. Transgender people have a brain that is structurally different than the brain of a nontransgender male or female — someplace in between men and women.This gradient of structural brain differences, from females to males, with transgender people in between, suggests that gender identity has a neural basis and that it exists on a spectrum, like so much of human behavior.Some theorize that the transgender experience might arise, in part, from a quirk of brain development. It turns out that the sexual differentiation of the brain happens during the second half of pregnancy, later than sexual differentiation of the genitals and body, which begins during the first two months of pregnancy. And since these two processes can be influenced independently of each other, it may be possible to have a mismatch between gender-specific brain development and that of the body.Is it really so surprising that gender identity might, like sexual orientation, be on a spectrum? After all, one can be exclusively straight or exclusively gay — or anything in between. But variability in a behavior shouldn’t be confused with its malleability. There is little evidence, for example, that you really can change your sexual orientation. Sure, you can change your sexual behavior, but your inner sexual fantasies endure.In fact, attempts to change a person’s sexual orientation, through so-called reparative therapy, have been debunked as quackery and rightly condemned by the psychiatric profession as potentially harmful.Of course, people should have the freedom to assume whatever gender role makes them comfortable and refer to themselves with whatever pronoun they choose; we should encourage people to be who they really feel they are, not who or what society would like them to be. I wonder, if we were a more tolerant society that welcomed all types of gender identity, what the impact might be on gender dysphoria. How many transgender individuals would feel the need to physically change gender, if they truly felt accepted with whatever gender role they choose?At the same time, we have to acknowledge that gender identity is a complex phenomenon, involving a mix of genes, hormones and social influence. And there is no getting around the fact that biology places constraints on our capacity to reimagine ourselves and to change, and it’s important to understand those limitations.The critical question is not whether there is a range of gender identity — it seems clear that there is. Rather, it is to what extent and in which populations gender identity is malleable, and to what extent various strategies to change one’s body and behavior to match a preferred gender will give people the psychological satisfaction they seek.Although transsexualism (defined as those who want to change or do change their body) is very rare — a recent meta-analysis estimated the prevalence at about 5 per 100,000 — it garners much media attention. What do we really know about how these individuals feel and function in their new role?The data are all over the map. One meta-analysis published in 2010 of follow-up studies suggested that about 80 percent of transgender individuals reported subjective improvement in terms of gender dysphoria and quality of life. But the review emphasized that many of the studies were suboptimal: All of them were observational and most lacked controls.Dr. Cecilia Dhejne and colleagues at the Karolinska Institute in Sweden have done one of the largest follow-up studies of transsexuals, published in PLOS One in 2011. They compared a group of 324 Swedish transsexuals for an average of more than 10 years after gender reassignment with controls and found that transsexuals had 19 times the rate of suicide and about three times the mortality rate compared with controls. When the researchers controlled for baseline rates of depression and suicide, which are known to be higher in transsexuals, they still found elevated rates of depression and suicide after sex reassignment.This study doesn’t prove that gender reassignment per se was the cause of the excess morbidity and mortality in transsexual people; to answer that, you would have to compare transgender people who were randomly assigned to reassignment to those who were not. Still, even if hormone replacement and surgery relieve gender dysphoria, the overall outcome with gender reassignment doesn’t look so good — a fact that only underscores the need for better medical treatments in general for transgender individuals and better psychiatric care after reassignment.Alarmingly, 41 percent of transgender and gender nonconforming individuals attempt suicide at some point in their lifetime compared with 4.6 percent of the general public, according to a joint study by the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention and the Williams Institute. The disturbingly high rate of suicide attempts among transgender people likely reflects a complex interaction of mental health factors and experiences of harassment, discrimination and violence. The study analyzed data from the National Transgender Discrimination Survey, which documents the bullying, harassment, rejection by family and other assorted horrors.On a broader level, the outcome studies suggest that gender reassignment doesn’t necessarily give everyone what they really want or make them happier.Nowhere is this issue more contentious than in children and adolescents who experience gender dysphoria or the sense that their desired gender mismatches their body. In fact, there are few areas of medicine or psychiatry where the debate has become so heated. I was surprised to discover how many professional colleagues in this area either warned me to be careful about what I wrote or were reluctant to talk with me on the record for fear of reprisal from the transgender community.If gender identity were a fixed and stable phenomenon in all young people, there would be little to argue about. But we have learned over the past two decades that, like so much else in child and adolescent behavior, the experience of gender dysphoria is itself often characterized by flux.Several studies have tracked the persistence of gender dysphoria in children as they grow. For example, Dr. Richard Green’s study of young boys with gender dysphoria in the 1980s found that only one of the 44 boys was gender dysphoric by adolescence or adulthood. And a 2008 study by Madeleine S. C. Wallein, at the VU University Medical Center in the Netherlands, reported that in a group of 77 young people, ages 5 to 12, who all had gender dysphoria at the start of the study, 70 percent of the boys and 36 percent of the girls were no longer gender dysphoric after an average of 10 years’ follow-up.THIS strongly suggests that gender dysphoria in young children is highly unstable and likely to change. Whether the loss of gender dysphoria is spontaneous or the result of parental or social influence is anyone’s guess. Moreover, we can’t predict reliably which gender dysphoric children will be “persisters” and which will be “desisters.”So if you were a parent of, say, an 8-year-old boy who said he really wanted to be a girl, you might not immediately accede to your child’s wish, knowing that there is a high probability — 80 percent, in some studies — that that desire will disappear with time.The counterargument is that to delay treatment is to consign this child to psychological suffering of potentially unknown duration. This is a disturbing possibility, though much can be done to help alleviate depression or anxiety without necessarily embarking on gender change. But rather than managing these psychological symptoms and watchfully waiting, some groups recommend pharmacologically delaying the onset of puberty in gender dysphoric children until age 16, before proceeding to reassignment. Puberty suppression is presumed reversible, and can be stopped if the adolescent’s gender dysphoria desists. But the risks of this treatment are not fully understood. Even more troubling, some doctors appear to be starting reassignment earlier. Some argue that the medical and psychiatric professions have a responsibility to respond to the child as he or she really is.But if anything marks what a child really is, it is experimentation and flux. Why, then, would one subject a child to hormones and gender reassignment if there is a high likelihood that the gender dysphoria will resolve?With adolescents, the story is very different: About three quarters of gender dysphoric teens may be “persisters,” which makes decisions about gender reassignment at this age more secure.Clinicians who take an agnostic watch-and-wait approach in children with gender dysphoria have been accused by some in the transgender community of imposing societal values — that boys should remain boys and girls remain girls — on their patients and have compared them to clinicians who practice reparative therapy for gays.I think that criticism is misguided. First, there is abundant evidence that reparative therapy is both ineffective and often harmful, while there is no comparable data in the area of gender dysphoria. Second, unlike sexual orientation, which tends to be stable, gender dysphoria in many young people clearly isn’t. Finally, when it comes to gender dysphoria, the evidence for therapeutics are simply poor to start with: There are no randomized clinical trials and very few comparative studies examining different approaches for this population.Given the absence of good treatment-outcome data, how can anyone — whether transgender activist, parent or clinician — be sure of the best course of action?There is obviously a huge gap between rapidly shifting cultural attitudes about gender identity and our scientific understanding of them. Until we have better data, what’s wrong with a little skepticism? After all, medical and psychological treatments should be driven by the best available scientific evidence — not political pressure or cherished beliefs.

  Questioning Your Sex Is Normal, Not A Reason To Go TransAnger and confusion about one’s body is a totally normal part of adolescence that most people used to outgrow.When my (Joy’s) little brother was three years old, he liked to don a floaty light-blue princess skirt, grey wig, cardigan, and sometimes even heels and a purse, and masquerade as “Mrs. Potter.” An old family video shows him earnestly describing how he, Mrs. Potter, bakes cookies for “her” son, who was away in the military.My parents didn’t freak out or rush him to the doctor for hormone therapy. They smiled at how cute he was, privately urged the rest of us not to tease him, and went on with life. A year later, Mrs. Potter was over. Ten years later, that “gendertypical” boy’s favorite activity was paintball in the woods. He never seemed or stated unease with his biological sex. Mrs. Potter was just child’s play. Fantasy. Lighthearted fun.Neither did I freak when my three-year-old son wanted his nails painted or said pink was his favorite color. Body decoration is a favorite child pastime, and pink is a beautiful color. He also grew out of those interests within a year.What has been confusing, instead, has been to read about other clueless parents having their children injected with opposite-sex hormones and bodily cut and pasted at very young ages. It’s insane that nobody calls this child abuse. It’s not innocent but very dangerous and horrifyingly permanent alteration that a young child, who should be able to depend on his parents for protection and sanity, cannot possibly evaluate rationally or fully informed.Somebody Please Help Instead of ExploitBuzzfeed is among the many who gush rather than call Child Protective Services when learning about such incidents. It recently posted the video of a young boy in a ponytail getting his feminizing hormone treatments from the hands of his eerily excited mother.Interestingly, the 14-year-old-boy didn’t get think he should become a girl until he watched YouTube videos of another teen boy who had transitioned to female and is now known as Jazz Jennings. His mother described coming across Jennings’ videos and realizing that her son, Corey, should undergo hormone therapy:When Corey was in the fifth grade she was bullied so badly her mother made the decision to pull her out of public school and begin homeschooling. It wasn’t until Corey was 11 years old that the mother-daughter duo came across a video of transgender YouTuber Jazz Jennings and everything suddenly clicked. ”She said, “Mom, I’m just like her, I AM a girl.”‘It makes one wonder if Corey would be attempting the impossible now had he not come across those videos. Perhaps it would have been a phase of confusion that would have sorted itself out had another transgendered teen’s feelings not suggested the most drastic response possible. Even given that Corey’s case seems like a more serious one than many, some people take hormone therapy to help their bodies coincide better with their biological sex, because bodies can be broken in many ways, including not producing the hormones fitting to one’s sex, either at all or in the right amounts.We as a society need to be careful what we’re encouraging, especially when it could have disastrous consequences for vulnerable young people whose brains are not physically or experientially developed enough to make irreversible decisions such as “Should I cut off my penis and take cross-sex hormones?” People need to hear reasons why discomfort with one’s body is not a signal to mutilate it. In fact, anger and confusion about one’s body is a totally normal part of adolescence that most people outgrow.I Wanted to Be the Opposite Sex, TooAround my eighth birthday, I (Bre) remember asking my parents why I had been born a girl instead of a boy. Many of my friends at the time were boys and liked to play with sticks and climb trees, which I enjoyed much more than the games my girl friends would play. Boys seemed like they got to have all the fun, whereas girls only had childbirth and menstruation to look forward to.We all wonder how we got here, where we came from, and why we were born the way we are.Upon reflection, I think that this kind of gender-introspection or questioning is pretty common. We all wonder how we got here, where we came from, and why we were born the way we are. And the grass is always greener, after all. It’s easy to know intimately the frustrations of one’s sex and romanticize the positive attributes of the opposite sex. The answers to those questions largely define us, so taking time to consider them is an essential step in becoming self-aware.My parents encouraged me in my efforts to find the answers to my questions, but instead of filling my head with the notion that I could be whoever I wanted, they gave me realistic answers. I was a girl because I had been born that way, they said, and nothing I could do would ever change that. Their answers helped me to embrace who I am.That period of questioning everything—including my gender—helped me to better understand myself and how I fit into the world. I am now happily settled into my skin and am grateful that my parents gave me realistic answers instead of fueling my childlike gender fantasies with hormones.This Is Really Common, PeopleI (Joy) went through a phase of hating being born female, too. It seemed so unfair that boys got to have all the fun and enough inborn body strength to make a lot of money at a young age when about all I could do to earn money at 15 was watch a pack of snot-nosed kids for far worse pay. I couldn’t dig fencepost holes or lug hay bales or work a construction crew (besides being a girl, I was scrawny). So I briefly became a feminist, which to me meant “getting respect for paid labor and not sneers for babymaking.” For several years, I was miffed at God for having made me female.When I’m successful at remembering that ‘womanhood’ does not equal ‘loves princesses, gossips, cries, emotional-not-intellectual’ I’m a lot happier about being a woman.The intervening years however, were such that I’d basically forgotten about this extended period of my life until the topic came up and I remembered. Many friends I’ve since queried say they’ve gone through the same feelings. Here are some comments from a longtime friend from Michigan, whose petite and delicate appearance make her comments even more amusing and touching:“[R] igid stereotyping can cause problems as well. When I’m successful at remembering that ‘womanhood’ does not equal ‘loves princesses, gossips, cries, emotional-not-intellectual’ I’m a lot happier about being a woman. The main reasons I wanted to be a boy (and, occasionally, want to be a man) have to do with my desires to be smart, strong (physically), independent, intellectual, authoritative, courageous, and athletic. And my desires not to be petty, gossipy, overly obsessed with my looks, flaky, emotional-not-rational, and crying all the time. I get really frustrated that no matter how much I work out, I will never be nearly as strong as [my husband], even if he just sits on his butt eating potato chips all month.”“I think you’re right — wanting to be the opposite sex is probably a pretty normal thing that a lot of people go through at some point. And it’s not a reason to freak out.”Our Bodies Are Mysterious PoetryCorey seems to have been asking a lot of the same questions that we and many of our friends have. It’s a shame that instead of giving her child realistic answers, Corey’s mom is pumping him with chemicals that will make his problem worse. Eventually he will realize that, despite his mother’s best efforts, his DNA is still encoded with XY chromosomes. Try as he might, he will never get pregnant, nor will he bear a child, nor will he have a period or breasts. Instead of allowing him to grow into the man he was born to be, Corey’s mother and doctors have made it even harder for him to grow into his body, both physically and mentally.A child’s feelings and perceptions change constantly, but puberty-blocking hormones have permanent implications for the body and psyche.This isn’t to say that Corey or other people like him can always solve their own conflicted feelings themselves. Lots of people feel mildly depressed at different points in time, and these feelings are so extreme for some they need and should get professional care and extra support from their loved ones. But others can get over it with nothing more than time. Certainly there’s also a spectrum of sex confusion and discomfort, and it seems Corey is on the more severe end of it.Rather than fill his head with untrue and unrealistic ambitions, his mother should kindly tell him what Bre’s did: that he will always be a boy because he was born that way. A child’s feelings and perceptions change constantly, but puberty-blocking hormones have permanent implications for the body and psyche. Cementing a child to feelings that don’t accord with reality is cruel and damaging.Guiding our children along the path that reflects rather than conflicts with reality is the best way we can prepare them for adulthood. Giving them realistic answers isn’t cruel, it’s kind, and saves them a lot of unnecessary hurt, pain, and effort. Parents should be parents. They should answer their children’s questions with wisdom and temperance. Here’s a beautiful expression of what’s true about human biology that may offer some insight:It all comes down to the fact that you can’t paraphrase the poem. That is to say, if you have a poem which says something beautiful and true, you can’t say sum it up by saying, ‘ok, and what the poet meant to say is this syllogism.’ And in the same way, the only way to describe what masculinity and femininity are is to say: ‘here are men, they are manly. Here are women, they are womanly.’ That’s literally the only way to do it, because our bodies are poems.Instead, common sense has gone out the window because a small subsection of vocal but reality-departed activists has destabilized common sense, a common understanding and common knowledge of truth. We literally have no common sense about sexuality because some people have decided to wage war on previously common, reality-tethered understandings of human biology. Their crusade will only create an availability cascade that hinders increasing numbers of children from getting over their confusion naturally, like we have.

  The Real Reason Transgenders Are Du JourPractically no one is transgender. So why does everything transgenders do national news?Transgender is everywhere. During the Emmy awards Sunday night, actor Jeffrey Tambor made history winning an Emmy for playing the first transgender character, in the show “Transparent.” Recently, Bruce/Caitlyn Jenner appeared on the season premiere of “The Ellen DeGeneres Show.”Despite serious, indelible problems plaguing our national welfare—like economic recovery, ISIS threats, and an unpredictable Iran—center-left thinkers and activists disregard those issues and continue in subtle and direct ways to spearhead movements that further their agenda.Transgender Must Be PrimetimeWhen Tambor won the Emmy, DeGeneres tweeted:I love when TV makes a difference. Grateful to @JeffreyTambor & Transparent for breaking ground and so happy for their win. #Emmys But when the topic of same-sex marriage surfaced on her show, DeGeneres reacted with less enthusiasm. Jenner said he was a “traditionalist” who had been originally against same-sex marriage, but is now “okay with it.” While that admittance does seem ironic, given Jenner’s transition this year, DeGeneres thought Jenner’s statements were confusing.The media appears to also be confused, or at least fickle. First they’re making Jenner a star, parading him on the front of Vanity Fair, a veritable queen of transgenders, the main character in his own reality show, “I Am Cait.” Now, when he maintains he’s traditional in some cultural views, he gets attacked.But the media is not as fickle as its leaders are purposeful. After all, regardless of Jenner’s somewhat diametrical views on same-sex marriage, the “Ellen DeGeneres Show” episode featuring a transgender man aired on the season premiere and matched its all-time ratings high for an opening frame.Transgenders Must Be EverywhereThe push to make transgenderism mainstream, a part of regularly accepted culture—especially when only 0.3 to 0.5 percent of the population identifies as transgender (the numbers are difficult to calculate still)—is being pushed on both ends of influential America. Those are Hollywood and kids. Make no mistake: Left-center elitists will not rest until transgenderism is not only accepted but transcends the rights of cis-gender people (people who do not call themselves transgender).Kids must walk through life accompanied by the propaganda machine assuring them this new lifestyle choice is fantastic.What better way to make transgenderism seem like a movement everyone must accept than to encourage someone who claims to be a Republican and conservative to admit he actually sides with some conservatives on the issue? The push to get Republicans on board with transgenderism is taking many different forms.Now there are commercials and interviews and documentaries and op-eds always circulating, always prevalent, always persuading. Ice-cream companies are using the trans meme, for heaven’s sakes. It isn’t enough for the center-left to let kids “feel” or even “decide” to be transgender. They must walk through life accompanied by the propaganda machine assuring them this new lifestyle choice is fantastic for them and everyone around them.Many have heard about Caitlyn Jenner, but have you heard about Jazz Jennings? Jazz is a 14-year-old transgender who has become somewhat of a transgender child phenomenon. Interviewed first at just six years-old, he’s lived most of his elementary and middle school years in the spotlight to some extent, often giving interviews along with his family members.Jazz stars on TLC in his own docu-series, not ironically titled “I Am Jazz.” He’s in a Clean & Clear commercial, #SeetheRealMe. Clean & Clear is a major beauty brand whose target audience is those less than 20 years old. Given the amount of publicity he has received, one would never realize transgender youths are a remarkably small minority.More Mixed MessagesOf course, transgender kids and their advocates would say they only seem like the minority because they haven’t been accepted yet; they haven’t been allowed to come out. While that might be true to some extent—expect transgender claims to increase in popularity, if only because it’s en vogue—the center-left, transgender lobby remains a more influential Big Brother than most people realize.The clip ends with him crying as the doctor implants hormone blockers into his arm.For example, in general, Jazz seems like a happy transgender kid, if uncharacteristic for similar youths. He has published a children’s book, and he runs TransKids Purple Rainbow Foundation, a nonprofit organization. During interviews, he and his family seem to genuinely enjoy and support one another. (This is a good thing. I’m not hoping for discord or unhappiness in some schadenfreude kind of way.)But Jazz’s story doesn’t seem to represent most transgender kids. The Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health says, in this recent study,“Transgender youth are more at risk for mental illness, including depression, anxiety, suicidal thoughts and attempts, and self-harm than their non-transgender peers.”In a recent NBC News interview, a 10-year-old transgender seems to vacillate between whether he wants to “be” a boy or girl. When he says he’s having second thoughts, his mom corrects him that “only he can decide” his gender. The clip ends with him crying as the doctor implants hormone blockers into his arm. There are dozens of stories like this.We oppose the confusing body image that’s harmful to youths during a time when they are experiencing incredible changes, psychologically and physiologically.Transgender advocates—such as those in the study cited above—would suggest this highlights the “need for gender-affirming mental health services and interventions to support transgender youth.” But others, even doctors, suggest different methods. Debra W. Soh, a sex researcher and neuroscientist at York University in Toronto, wrote recently about her personal experiments with being transgender. She cautions parents and doctors against using medical methods to promote gender dysphoria. “[R]esearch has shown that most gender dysphoric children outgrow their dysphoria, and do so by adolescence: Most will grow up to be happy, gay adults, and some, like myself, to be happy, straight adults.”In general, we on the center-right do not target any one person, regardless of whether he or she calls himself or herself a man, woman, or vegetable. We oppose the confusing body image that’s harmful to youths during a time when they are experiencing incredible changes, psychologically and physiologically. We oppose the message that traditional, healthy body images are so passe. We oppose the lies that transgender children will be happy if only they are allowed to be accepted after having attempted to convert into their biological opposite.The center-left propagandist machine hardly allows for—and in reality ignores—typical adolescent struggles, the viewpoint of doctors who suggest waiting out gender dysphoria, or stories of kids struggling or unhappy with “becoming” transgender. It’s a shame. By proliferating the relentless, flawed, mixed messages that health and happiness only await a youth on the “other side” of his transgender story, it’s our youths—and ultimately society—who end up confused, unhealthy, and wondering why they were told so many lies.

  What is gender? This is a question that cuts to the very heart of feminist theory and practice, and is pivotal to current debates in social justice activism about class, identity and privilege. In everyday conversation, the word ‘gender’ is a synonym for what would more accurately be referred to as ‘sex’. Perhaps due to a vague squeamishness about uttering a word that also describes sexual intercourse, the word ‘gender’ is now euphemistically used to refer to the biological fact of whether a person is female or male, saving us all the mild embarrassment of having to invoke, however indirectly, the bodily organs and processes that this bifurcation entails.The word ‘gender’ originally had a purely grammatical meaning in languages that classify their nouns as masculine, feminine or neuter. But since at least the 1960s, the word has taken on another meaning, allowing us to make a distinction between sex and gender. For feminists, this distinction has been important, because it enables us to acknowledge that some of the differences between women and men are traceable to biology, while others have their roots in environment, culture, upbringing and education – what feminists call ‘gendered socialisation’.At least, that is the role that the word gender traditionally performed in feminist theory. It used to be a basic, fundamental feminist idea that while sex referred to what is biological, and so perhaps in some sense ‘natural’, gender referred to what is socially constructed. On this view, which for simplicity we can call the radical feminist view, gender refers to the externally imposed set of norms that prescribe and proscribe desirable behaviour to individuals in accordance with morally arbitrary characteristics.Not only are these norms external to the individual and coercively imposed, but they also represent a binary caste system or hierarchy, a value system with two positions: maleness above femaleness, manhood above womanhood, masculinity above femininity. Individuals are born with the potential to perform one of two reproductive roles, determined at birth, or even before, by the external genitals that the infant possesses. From then on, they will be inculcated into one of two classes in the hierarchy: the superior class if their genitals are convex, the inferior one if their genitals are concave.From birth, and the identification of sex-class membership that happens at that moment, most female people are raised to be passive, submissive, weak and nurturing, while most male people are raised to be active, dominant, strong and aggressive. This value system, and the process of socialising and inculcating individuals into it, is what a radical feminist means by the word ‘gender’. Understood like this, it’s not difficult to see what is objectionable and oppressive about gender, since it constrains the potential of both male and female people alike, and asserts the superiority of males over females. So, for the radical feminist, the aim is to abolish gender altogether: to stop putting people into pink and blue boxes, and to allow the development of individuals’ personalities and preferences without the coercive influence of this socially enacted value system.This view of the nature of gender sits uneasily with those who experience gender as in some sense internal and innate, rather than as entirely socially constructed and externally imposed. Such people not only dispute that gender is entirely constructed, but also reject the radical feminist analysis that it is inherently hierarchical with two positions. On this view, which for ease I will call the queer feminist view of gender, what makes the operation of gender oppressive is not that it is socially constructed and coercively imposed: rather, the problem is the prevalence of the belief that there are only two genders. Humans of both sexes would be liberated if we recognised that while gender is indeed an internal, innate, essential facet of our identities, there are more genders than just ‘woman’ or ‘man’ to choose from. And the next step on the path to liberation is the recognition of a new range of gender identities: so we now have people referring to themselves as ‘genderqueer’ or ‘non-binary’ or ‘pangender’ or ‘polygender’ or ‘agender’ or ‘demiboy’ or ‘demigirl’ or ‘neutrois’ or ‘aporagender’ or ‘lunagender’ or ‘quantumgender’… I could go on. An oft-repeated mantra among proponents of this view is that ‘gender is not a binary; it’s a spectrum’. What follows from this view is not that we need to tear down the pink and the blue boxes; rather, we simply need to recognise that there are many more boxes than just these two.At first blush this seems an appealing idea, but there are numerous problems with it, problems that render it internally incoherent and politically unattractive.Many proponents of the queer view of gender describe their own gender identity as ‘non-binary’, and present this in opposition to the vast majority of people whose gender identity is presumed to be binary. On the face of it, there seems to be an immediate tension between the claim that gender is not a binary but a spectrum, and the claim that only a small proportion of individuals can be described as having a non-binary gender identity. If gender really is a spectrum, doesn’t this mean that every individual alive is non-binary, by definition? If so, then the label ‘non-binary’ to describe a specific gender identity would become redundant, because it would fail to pick out a special category of people.To avoid this, the proponent of the spectrum model must in fact be assuming that gender is both a binary anda spectrum. It is entirely possible for a property to be described in both continuous and binary ways. One example is height: clearly height is a continuum, and individuals can fall anywhere along that continuum; but we also have the binary labels Tall and Short. Might gender operate in a similar way?The thing to notice about the Tall/Short binary is that when these concepts are invoked to refer to people, they are relative or comparative descriptions. Since height is a spectrum or a continuum, no individual is absolutely tall or absolutely short; we are all of us taller than some people and shorter than some others. When we refer to people as tall, what we mean is that they are taller than the average person in some group whose height we are interested in examining. A boy could simultaneously be tall for a six-year-old, and yet short by comparison with all male people. So ascriptions of the binary labels Tall and Short must be comparative, and make reference to the average. Perhaps individuals who cluster around that average might have some claim to refer to themselves as of ‘non-binary height’.However, it seems unlikely that this interpretation of the spectrum model will satisfy those who describe themselves as non-binary gendered. If gender, like height, is to be understood as comparative or relative, this would fly in the face of the insistence that individuals are the sole arbiters of their gender. Your gender would be defined by reference to the distribution of gender identities present in the group in which you find yourself, and not by your own individual self-determination. It would thus not be up to me to decide that I am non-binary. This could be determined only by comparing my gender identity to the spread of other people’s, and seeing where I fall. And although I might think of myself as a woman, someone else might be further down the spectrum towards womanhood than I am, and thus ‘more of a woman’ than me.Further, when we observe the analogy with height we can see that, when observing the entire population, only a small minority of people would be accurately described as Tall or Short. Given that height really is a spectrum, and the binary labels are ascribed comparatively, only the handful of people at either end of the spectrum can be meaningfully labelled Tall or Short. The rest of us, falling along all the points in between, are the non-binary height people, and we are typical. In fact, it is the binary Tall and Short people who are rare and unusual. And if we extend the analogy to gender, we see that being non-binary gendered is actually the norm, not the exception.To call oneself non-binary is in fact to create a new false binaryIf gender is a spectrum, that means it’s a continuum between two extremes, and everyone is located somewhere along that continuum. I assume the two ends of the spectrum are masculinity and femininity. Is there anything else that they could possibly be? Once we realise this, it becomes clear that everybody is non-binary, because absolutely nobody is pure masculinity or pure femininity. Of course, some people will be closer to one end of the spectrum, while others will be more ambiguous and float around the centre. But even the most conventionally feminine person will demonstrate some characteristics that we associate with masculinity, and vice versa.I would be happy with this implication, because despite possessing female biology and calling myself a woman, I do not consider myself a two-dimensional gender stereotype. I am not an ideal manifestation of the essence of womanhood, and so I am non-binary. Just like everybody else. However, those who describe themselves as non-binary are unlikely to be satisfied with this conclusion, as their identity as ‘non-binary person’ depends upon the existence of a much larger group of so-called binary ‘cisgender’ people, people who are incapable of being outside the arbitrary masculine/feminine genders dictated by society.And here we have an irony about some people insisting that they and a handful of their fellow gender revolutionaries are non-binary: in doing so, they create a false binary between those who conform to the gender norms associated with their sex, and those who do not. In reality, everybody is non-binary. We all actively participate in some gender norms, passively acquiesce with others, and positively rail against others still. So to call oneself non-binary is in fact to create a new false binary. It also often seems to involve, at least implicitly, placing oneself on the more complex and interesting side of that binary, enabling the non-binary person to claim to be both misunderstood and politically oppressed by the binary cisgender people.If you identify as pangender, is the claim that you represent every possible point on the spectrum? All at the same time? How might that be possible, given that the extremes necessarily represent incompatible opposites of one another? Pure femininity is passivity, weakness and submission, while pure masculinity is aggression, strength and dominance. It is simply impossible to be all of these things at the same time. If you disagree with these definitions of masculinity and femininity, and do not accept that masculinity should be defined in terms of dominance while femininity should be described in terms of submission, you are welcome to propose other definitions. But whatever you come up with, they are going to represent opposites of one another.A handful of individuals are apparently permitted to opt out of the spectrum altogether by declaring themselves ‘agender’, saying that they feel neither masculine nor feminine, and don’t have any internal experience of gender. We are not given any explanation as to why some people are able to refuse to define their personality in gendered terms while others are not, but one thing that is clear about the self-designation as ‘agender’: we cannot all do it, for the same reasons we cannot all call ourselves non-binary. If we were all to deny that we have an innate, essential gender identity, then the label ‘agender’ would become redundant, as lacking in gender would be a universal trait. Agender can be defined only against gender. Those who define themselves and their identity by their lack of gender must therefore be committed to the view that most people do have an innate, essential gender but that, for some reason, they do not.Once we assert that the problem with gender is that we currently recognise only two of them, the obvious question to ask is: how many genders would we have to recognise in order not to be oppressive? Just how many possible gender identities are there?The only consistent answer to this is: 7 billion, give or take. There are as many possible gender identities as there are humans on the planet. According to Nonbinary.org, one of the main internet reference sites for information about non-binary genders, your gender can be frost or the Sun or music or the sea or Jupiter or pure darkness. Your gender can be pizza.But if this is so, it’s not clear how it makes sense or adds anything to our understanding to call any of this stuff ‘gender’, as opposed to just ‘human personality’ or ‘stuff I like’. The word gender is not just a fancy word for your personality or your tastes or preferences. It is not just a label to adopt so that you now have a unique way to describe just how large and multitudinous and interesting you are. Gender is the value system that ties desirable (and sometimes undesirable?) behaviours and characteristics to reproductive function. Once we’ve decoupled those behaviours and characteristics from reproductive function – which we should – and once we’ve rejected the idea that there are just two types of personality and that one is superior to the other – which we should – what can it possibly mean to continue to call this stuff ‘gender’? What meaning does the word ‘gender’ have here, that the word ‘personality’ cannot capture?On Nonbinary.org, your gender can apparently be:(Name)gender: ‘A gender that is best described by one’s name, good for those who aren’t sure what they identify as yet but definitely know that they aren’t cis … it can be used as a catch-all term or a specific identifier, eg, johngender, janegender, (your name here)gender, etc.’The example of ‘(name)gender’ perfectly demonstrates how non-binary gender identities operate, and the function they perform. They are for people who aren’t sure what they identify as, but know that they aren’t cisgender. Presumably because they are far too interesting and revolutionary and transgressive for something as ordinary and conventional as cis.The solution is not to try to slip through the bars of the cage while leaving the rest of the cage intact, and the rest of womankind trapped within itThis desire not to be cis is rational and makes perfect sense, especially if you are female. I too believe my thoughts, feelings, aptitudes and dispositions are far too interesting, well-rounded and complex to simply be a ‘cis woman’. I, too, would like to transcend socially constructed stereotypes about my female body and the assumptions others make about me as a result of it. I, too, would like to be seen as more than just a mother/domestic servant/object of sexual gratification. I, too, would like to be viewed as a human being, a person with a rich and deep inner life of my own, with the potential to be more than what our society currently views as possible for women.The solution to that, however, is not to call myself agender, to try to slip through the bars of the cage while leaving the rest of the cage intact, and the rest of womankind trapped within it. This is especially so given that you can’t slip through the bars. No amount of calling myself ‘agender’ will stop the world seeing me as a woman, and treating me accordingly. I can introduce myself as agender and insist upon my own set of neo-pronouns when I apply for a job, but it won’t stop the interviewer seeing a potential baby-maker, and giving the position to the less qualified but less encumbered by reproduction male candidate.Here we arrive at the crucial tension at the heart of gender identity politics, and one that most of its proponents either haven’t noticed, or choose to ignore because it can only be resolved by rejecting some of the key tenets of the doctrine.Many people justifiably assume that the word ‘transgender’ is synonymous with ‘transsexual’, and means something like: having dysphoria and distress about your sexed body, and having a desire to alter that body to make it more closely resemble the body of the opposite sex. But according to the current terminology of gender identity politics, being transgender has nothing to do with a desire to change your sexed body. What it means to be transgender is that your innate gender identity does not match the gender you were assigned at birth. This might be the case even if you are perfectly happy and content in the body you possess. You are transgender simply if you identify as one gender, but socially have been perceived as another.It is a key tenet of the doctrine that the vast majority of people can be described as ‘cisgender’, which means that our innate gender identity matches the one we were assigned at birth. But as we have seen, if gender identity is a spectrum, then we are all non-binary, because none of us inhabits the points represented by the ends of that spectrum. Every single one of us will exist at some unique point along that spectrum, determined by the individual and idiosyncratic nature of our own particular identity, and our own subjective experience of gender. Given that, it’s not clear how anybody ever could be cisgender. None of us was assigned our correct gender identity at birth, for how could we possibly have been? At the moment of my birth, how could anyone have known that I would later go on to discover that my gender identity is ‘frostgender’, a gender which is apparently ‘very cold and snowy’?Once we recognise that the number of gender identities is potentially infinite, we are forced to concede that nobody is deep down cisgender, because nobody is assigned the correct gender identity at birth. In fact, none of us was assigned a gender identity at birth at all. We were placed into one of two sex classes on the basis of our potential reproductive function, determined by our external genitals. We were then raised in accordance with the socially prescribed gender norms for people of that sex. We are all educated and inculcated into one of two roles, long before we are able to express our beliefs about our innate gender identity, or to determine for ourselves the precise point at which we fall on the gender continuum. So defining transgender people as those who at birth were not assigned the correct place on the gender spectrum has the implication that every single one of us is transgender; there are no cisgender people.The logical conclusion of all this is: if gender is a spectrum, not a binary, then everyone is trans. Or alternatively, there are no trans people. Either way, this a profoundly unsatisfactory conclusion, and one that serves both to obscure the reality of female oppression, as well as to erase and invalidate the experiences of transsexual people.The way to avoid this conclusion is to realise that gender is not a spectrum. It’s not a spectrum, because it’s not an innate, internal essence or property. Gender is not a fact about persons that we must take as fixed and essential, and then build our social institutions around that fact. Gender is socially constructed all the way through, an externally imposed hierarchy, with two classes, occupying two value positions: male over female, man over woman, masculinity over femininity.The truth of the spectrum analogy lies in the fact that conformity to one’s place in the hierarchy, and to the roles it assigns to people, will vary from person to person. Some people will find it relatively easier and more painless to conform to the gender norms associated with their sex, while others find the gender roles associated with their sex so oppressive and limiting that they cannot tolerably live under them, and choose to transition to live in accordance with the opposite gender role.Gender as a hierarchy perpetuates the subordination of female people to male people, and constrains the development of both sexesFortunately, what is a spectrum is human personality, in all its variety and complexity. (Actually that’s not a single spectrum either, because it is not simply one continuum between two extremes. It’s more like a big ball of wibbly-wobbly, humany-wumany stuff.) Gender is the value system that says there are two types of personality, determined by the reproductive organs you were born with. One of the first steps to liberating people from the cage that is gender is to challenge established gender norms, and to play with and explore your gender expression and presentation. Nobody, and certainly no radical feminist, wants to stop anyone from defining themselves in ways that make sense to them, or from expressing their personality in ways they find enjoyable and liberating.So if you want to call yourself a genderqueer femme presenting demigirl, you go for it. Express that identity however you like. Have fun with it. A problem emerges only when you start making political claims on the basis of that label – when you start demanding that others call themselves cisgender, because you require there to be a bunch of conventional binary cis people for you to define yourself against; and when you insist that these cis people have structural advantage and political privilege over you, because they are socially read as the conformist binary people, while nobody really understands just how complex and luminous and multifaceted and unique your gender identity is. To call yourself non-binary or genderfluid while demanding that others call themselves cisgender is to insist that the vast majority of humans must stay in their boxes, because you identify as boxless.The solution is not to reify gender by insisting on ever more gender categories that define the complexity of human personality in rigid and essentialist ways. The solution is to abolish gender altogether. We do not need gender. We would be better off without it. Gender as a hierarchy with two positions operates to naturalise and perpetuate the subordination of female people to male people, and constrains the development of individuals of both sexes. Reconceiving of gender as an identity spectrum represents no improvement.You do not need to have a deep, internal, essential experience of gender to be free to dress how you like, behave how you like, work how you like, love who you like. You do not need to show that your personality is feminine for it to be acceptable for you to enjoy cosmetics, cookery and crafting. You do not need to be genderqueer to queer gender. The solution to an oppressive system that puts people into pink and blue boxes is not to create more and more boxes that are any colour but blue or pink. The solution is to tear down the boxes altogether.

  One day, around 1987 or 1988, I spent the afternoon in a reference room of the Robarts Library of the University of Toronto. I was trying to fi nd a word—or failing that, to invent one—to denote a phenomenon I had gradually apprehended during clinical interviews with many biologically male patients interested in sex reassignment surgery.That phenomenon was the tendency of certain males to become erotically aroused by the thought or image of themselves as females. The word I fi nally invented, after fruit-less searching through various kinds of dictionaries, was autogynephilia . I could scarcely have imagined, on that long-ago day in that quiet room, that I would be writing the Foreword to a complete book on the subject 25 years later.My early writings on autogynephilia were published in specialty journals with limited circulations. They were intended for a small readership of clinicians who specialized in the assessment and management of gender dysphoric patients. The general availability of the Internet in the home and workplace was still several years away, and access to print journals for people unconnected to major universities was dif fi cult. I therefore had no expectation that the readership of my autogynephilia papers would ever extend beyond the small group I had originally envisioned.One person who did manage to fi nd and read them was the author of the present volume, Dr. Anne A. Lawrence. She was open to my ideas, which—although actually rooted in eight decades of prior clinical thinking—were bitterly opposed as heretical innovations by the increasingly politicized transgender community and the clinicians who served it. My ideas included the notions that gender identity and sexuality are not separate and unrelated phenomena but rather two sides of the same coin; that there are two major, etiologically and phenomenologically different types of male-to-female transsexualism; and that neither of these types is sui generis —rather, one is related to ordinary homosexuality and the other is related to autogynephilia. The contemporary dogma in the transgender and allied health communities was that male-to-female transsexualism is caused by a feminine gender identity—a proposition that is obviously and utterly circular without some auxiliary hypothesis such as neuroanatomic intersexuality. On this orthodox view, gender identity is about one’s sex but not about sexuality, and to connect it with an erotic preference like homosexuality or autogynephilia is conceptually (and politically) incorrect. Dr. Lawrence did not merely accept my ideas; she pushed them towards their logical conclusion and, in a 1998 essay published on her Web site, startled even me with the audacious title of her essay, “Men Trapped in Men’s Bodies: An Introduction to the Concept of Autogynephilia.” And so it was that the word autogynephilia began its slow escape from the library.Challenging the emotionally invested beliefs of any group often has its price, and Dr. Lawrence began receiving hate mail shortly after her views became known.Worse consequences than hate mail awaited J. Michael Bailey, who published a book dealing in large part with autogynephilia in 2003. This book, The Man Who Would Be Queen , so enraged some male-to-female transsexuals that a small group of them made a coordinated and sustained effort to get Dr. Bailey fi red from his university faculty and ruined professionally. The events of this extraordinary cam-paign have been documented in a long and meticulously documented essay by medical historian and bioethicist Alice Domurat Dreger.In light of this history, it is remarkable that Dr. Lawrence has written a book that describes autogynephilic transsexuals in a way that differs in important regards from the way many in this group wish to see themselves or wish to be seen by others. Her motives for completing this project are twofold. First, she is convinced that psychologists, psychiatrists, and other helping professionals can provide better care to autogynephilic gender dysphoric men if they understand the nature and signi fi cance of autogynephilia. Second, she believes that there exist many isolated and confused autogynephiles who would be comforted and reassured by the knowledge that there are others in the world like them and that, in the long term, autogynephilic transsexuals would lead mentally healthier lives if they had a self-understanding based on objective reality.The book with which Dr. Lawrence’s volume is most readily compared is Magnus Hirschfeld’s 1910 classic work, Die Transvestiten . Both books include multiple autobiographies written by persons who might nowadays be grouped under the umbrella term “transgendered,” both also include direct clinical observations of transgendered persons by the authors, and both contain substantial sections of theoretical interpretation and conjecture. If I were forced to recommend to someone that he or she read only one of these two books, I would—despite my deep admiration for the great Magnus Hirschfeld—recommend Dr. Lawrence’s volume.MenTrapped in Men’s Bodies is more focused, organized, and clear. It is simply a more ef fi cient and accessible introduction, for modern readers, to the phenomenon of autogynephilic transsexualism. It does not, and does not attempt to, provide an account of homosexual transsexualism in natal males or females—a topic that would properly require a volume of its own.Some days of one’s work life one remembers with a shudder of horror, others with pleasurable memories of satisfaction at a job fi nally completed. Today, as I sign the Foreword to this excellent book by my friend and colleague Anne Lawrence, is like the long-ago day when I shut the last of the dictionaries and decided simply to invent the word I needed— autogynephilia .This book could not have been written without the help and support of several colleagues and friends, whose assistance I gratefully acknowledge and to whom I offer my sincere thanks. Marta Meana, editor of the Springer Focus on Sexuality Research series, encouraged me to submit the proposal for this book, advocated for its acceptance by the publisher, and helped me fi nd and trust my authorial voice in creating the manuscript. Her comments and suggestions on my chapter drafts and her overall support for the project were invaluable.Three other colleagues, J. Michael Bailey, Robinn J. Cruz, and Paul L. Vasey, were also kind enough to read portions of the manuscript, share their observations, and propose various improvements. Their analyses, whether congratulatory or skeptical, helped me to proceed with a healthy mixture of caution and enthusiasm.Although he provided no direct input to the book, Kenneth J. Zucker helped create the conditions that made it possible. He edited and published my earliest academic articles in Archives of Sexual Behavior , helped me to believe that I had something valuable to say, and taught me how to say it with greater clarity, preci-sion, and economy.More than anyone else, Ray Blanchard is responsible for this book’s existence.He introduced the concept of autogynephilia and conducted the seminal research from which all further investigations of the topic would proceed. He graciously read and reread my early chapter drafts, gently pointing out areas where changes were needed and praising my more successful efforts. After nearly two decades of reading Dr. Blanchard’s elegant prose in his numerous academic publications, I have inevitably absorbed some elements of his style and made them my own; if any parts of my writing ever verge on eloquence, I largely have him to thank.Male-to-female (MtF) transsexuals—men who want to have sex reassignment surgery (SRS) and live as women—are often described by themselves and others as“women trapped in men’s bodies” (e.g., Benjamin, 1966 , p. 34; Person & Ovesey,1974a , p. 17). This metaphor implies that these transsexuals not only want to look like women and live as women but that they also display the behavioral and psychological traits that are typical of women, their male bodies notwithstanding.It is doubtful whether any MtF transsexuals can accurately be described as women trapped in men’s bodies, but there are two distinctly different types of MtF transsexuals, and the metaphor is much more applicable to one type than to the other. One MtF transsexual type consists of males who have a life-long history of female-typical interests, behaviors, and personality characteristics. From earliest childhood, these individuals behaved like girls, identi fi ed with girls, and often proclaimed themselves to be girls. Their interests, mannerisms, and preferred toys and activities were female-typical, and girls were their favored playmates. They began crossdressing openly in early childhood and continued to cross-dress into adulthood, and their cross-dressing was not associated with sexual arousal. Their feminine identi fi cations and behaviors persisted throughout adolescence and into adulthood.They discovered that they were sexually attracted exclusively to men. They usually chose occupations, hobbies, and leisure activities that were female-typical.If any MtF transsexuals deserve to be thought of as women trapped in men’s bodies, these pervasively feminine MtF transsexuals have the best claim. Because MtF transsexuals of this type are exclusively sexually attracted to men and thus homosexual relative to their biological sex, and because they resemble (or, more accurately, are ) the most feminine of homosexual men, they are usually referred to in the medical and scienti fi c literature as homosexual MtF transsexuals.There is a second MtF transsexual type, however, consisting of males who bear little resemblance to women trapped in men’s bodies. Although they intensely desire to be female, they display few of the interests, behaviors, and psychological traits that are typical of women. In most respects, they closely resemble ordinary nontranssexual men. From earliest childhood, these individuals knew they were boys and behaved like boys, although many of them report that they had secret fantasies about becoming female as far back as they can remember. Their interests, mannerisms, and preferred toys and activities were usually male-typical. In most cases, other boys were their favored playmates, but a few primarily engaged in solitary play. Some began cross-dressing in early childhood, almost always surreptitiously.Nearly all were cross-dressing secretly by the time of puberty, and their crossdressing was associated with intense sexual arousal. In other respects, however, their masculine interests and behaviors continued to be, at least super ficially,unremarkable throughout adolescence and into adulthood. They rarely chose female-typical occupations and usually chose strongly male-typical ones, in fi elds such as engineering, computer programming, or military service. They discovered that they were either sexually attracted to women or, less commonly, were not strongly attracted to other people of either sex. Many of them fantasized at times about having sex with men, but only when they also fantasized about themselves as female; at other times, they found the idea of sex with men unappealing or repugnant. They also continued to be erotically aroused by cross-dressing and by the fantasy of being female—something traditionally associated with transvestic fetishism, not transsexualism.Several years ago, I described MtF transsexuals of this second type as “men trapped in men’s bodies” (Lawrence, 1998 ) , because in most respects they resemble nontranssexual men, although they genuinely do feel trapped in their male bodies and have an intense desire to have female bodies. Because transsexuals of this second type are nonhomosexual relative to their biological sex (i.e., they do not experience exclusive sexual attraction to men), they are usually referred to as nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals in the medical and scienti fi c literature, to distinguish them from their exclusively homosexual MtF counterparts. Nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals are also, and more controversially, referred to as autogynephilic transsexuals, because some clinicians and theorists have concluded that these transsexuals almost always share an unusual erotic interest called autogynephilia —a propensity to be erotically aroused by the thought of being female. This unusual erotic interest, and what transsexuals who experience it have to say about it, is the subject of this book.Jay Prosser, a female-to-male (FtM) transsexual, explained that “transsexuals continue to deploy the image of wrong embodiment because being trapped in the wrong body is simply what transsexuality feels like” (Prosser, 1998 , p. 69), and I would notdisagree with his assessment. But I believe that MtF transsexuals of the second type—nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals—continue to employ the image of being“ women trapped in men’s bodies,” not because they believe it is truly accurate, but because it is concise and super fi cially plausible. Attempting to provide a more accurate explanation would be a lengthy process and would not necessarily result in a more nuanced understanding, because the feelings associated with nonhomosexual MtF transsexualism are very dif fi cult to understand, even for those of us who experience them fi rsthand. I routinely warn my nonhomosexual MtF transsexual patients:“Some people will accept you; some will support you; some will admire your courage; some will be your advocates; but no one except another transsexual like your-self will really understand you, because the feelings you experience are so strange that they defy most people’s comprehension.”Homosexual MtF transsexualism is easier to comprehend. Extremely feminine men who are sexually attracted to other men and who dress as women have been observed in essentially all cultures. In some cultures—primarily in Asia, Oceania, and Latin America—such men are suf fi ciently prevalent that socially sanctioned transgender roles exist to accommodate them (e.g., Bartlett & Vasey, 2006 ; Nanda,1994 ; Teh, 2001 ; Whitam, 1997 ; Winter, 2006 ) . Ordinary men and women often seem to fi nd it understandable, even predictable, that extremely feminine homosexual men might want to live full-time or part-time as women. As Levine ( 1993 ) observed, “Many people intuitively grasp a relationship between homoeroticism and the persistent intense, but transformed childhood wish to be female.” (p. 134).Bloom ( 2002 ) similarly noted that “Drag queens (gay cross-dressers) make sense to most of us. There is a congruence of sexual orientation, appearance, and tempera-ment [in] feminine gay men dressing as women” (p. 51).Nonhomosexual MtF transsexualism, in contrast, seems to make little sense: Why would an apparently masculine man who is attracted to women want to make his body resemble a woman’s body and live as a woman? The image of being a woman trapped in a man’s body—being a woman mentally and psychologically but a man anatomically—at least begins to suggest something of the pain, frustration, and incomprehension that nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals feel about not having the bodies they want. But it is a misleading metaphor, because it erroneously implies the presence of female-typical attitudes and behaviors, which are rarely present in nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals. It also omits the element that nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals fi nd hardest to talk about: the intense, perplexing, shame-inducing erotic arousal that seems to simultaneously animate and discredit their desires to have female bodies. Sometimes that erotic arousal is center-stage and obvious; sometimes it lurks around the edges of the phenomenon and even brie fl y seems to disappear. For many affected persons, the arousal feels almost incidental much of the time: merely an unsought physical response that is somehow linked to one’s longing to be female and one’s distress over one’s male embodiment. Yet, for nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals who pay close attention, the sexual arousal that accompanies the desire to be female is dif fi cult to ignore completely.Although I have suggested that the feelings that accompany nonhomosexual (or autogynephilic) MtF transsexualism defy most people’s comprehension, I will nevertheless try to convey some sense of them. Here, then, is a psychosexual autobiography, written from a third-person perspective by a colleague who is an autogynephilic MtF transsexual—a transsexual who recognizes herself to be autogynephilic. I’ll refer to her as Ms. Z. Like all brief personal histories, Ms. Z’s account necessarily omits many details, but she af fi rms that, to the best of her knowledge and recollection, it is entirely accurate. I present it here as an illustrative case history; I do not claim that it is typical or representative.In most respects, he seemed to be a normal boy. He liked toy cars and airplanes, engaged in rough-and-tumble play, and did not seem to be delicate or effeminate. According to his mother, however, he showed an early interest in women’s bodies and clothing: At about age 4, for example, he loved to stroke his mother’s legs when she was wearing nylon stockings.His fi rst conscious memory of wanting to wear girls’ clothing occurred when he was age 6: A girl who was his regular playmate had a ballerina tutu that he yearned to wear. The fantasy of doing so felt both exciting and shameful. By the age of 8, he fantasized about being a girl and wearing girls’ clothing nearly every night as he lay in bed. Whenever he did this, his penis became erect. He didn’t understand why this happened, and he didn’t like it. He found photographs of women’s and girls’ clothes in magazines and catalogs; he fantasized about wearing these pretty clothes. He fantasized about having long hair and being treated like a girl and having a girl’s name; these fantasies also made his penis become erect. He was ashamed of having a penis and wanted it gone. He fantasized about having an operation to remove his penis; ironically, this also caused his penis to become erect.When he was age 9, he was sometimes allowed to stay home alone. He used these opportunities to try on his mother’s clothing. This felt exciting and shameful. The clothes were too big, but that wasn’t important; they were women’s clothes. He tried on panties, bras, slips, and dresses. His penis always became erect, and sticky fl uid oozed from its tip.He didn’t like the erections; they were unpleasant and made the clothes not fi t well.Sometimes fl uid from his penis got on the clothes. He feared that his cross-dressing would be discovered, but he couldn’t make himself stop. His mother eventually did discover his cross-dressing; she confronted him and made him promise to stop. He stopped brie fl y but soon resumed, trying to be more careful.His cross-dressing and fantasies of being female continued throughout adolescence. He hated the physical changes that accompanied puberty: facial hair, a deeper voice, genital enlargement. He was attracted to girls but too timid to date them. He envied their clothes and their lovely bodies; he burned with envy. His interests, however, were not notably feminine: His favorite subjects in school were geometry and calculus, and his hobby was programming computers. He read about transvestites and MtF transsexuals but couldn’t identify with either category. Transvestites were attracted to women and sexually aroused by cross-dressing, like him; but transvestites valued their penises and didn’t want them to be cut off, which was not like him. MtF transsexuals wanted female bodies, like him; but they were attracted to men and were never sexually aroused by cross-dressing, which was not like him. His feminization fantasies caused a buildup of sexual tension, but his only relief was in wet dreams. He read that boys masturbated by stroking their penises, but he couldn’t stand to touch his. At age 18, he fi nally discovered how to give himself an orgasm by rubbing against the bed sheets; he would masturbate that way for the rest of his life.When he went away to college, he fi nally had his own room and could cross-dress in privacy. He bought female clothes and wore them in private and occasionally in public; this was always erotically arousing. He experimented with black market estrogen. He liked the physical effects and found it sexually arousing to develop breasts, but taking estrogen seemed futile: He knew that he couldn’t pass as a woman and that he would never be accepted for sex reassignment, because he wasn’t attracted to men. He reasoned that if he could learn to like sex with men, he might qualify for sex reassignment. He met gay men and let them penetrate him, but he was simply not attracted to men and couldn’t pretend to be. He dated a few women during his fi nal years in college but never had sex with any of them; he was too inhibited. He thought about castrating himself but couldn’t fi nd the courage. He wished that he could be normal but feared that he never would be.After college, he overcame his inhibitions and had sex with a woman for the fi rst time.He loved looking at and touching her naked body. Although her body was exciting, it was not exciting enough that he could ejaculate inside of her. For that, he had to fantasize about being female. He did not fantasize about being female with her , just about being female; she was super fl uous to his fantasy. He dated over a dozen women during his young adulthood, but he could never ejaculate with any of them except through the fantasy of being female.He tried having sex with very attractive women, hoping they would excite him enough that a fantasy would be unnecessary; this never worked. His female partners observed that he always “went away” immediately before his orgasm. He invariably felt miserable and depressed after orgasm, when he once again had to confront the reality of being male. He continued to cross-dress but found little satisfaction in it: What was the point if his body was male? He discovered erotica written for cross-dressers but could never fi nd precisely what he wanted. Complete, permanent physical feminization, especially genital surgery, was what he found sexually exciting, but this was rarely emphasized. Stories that culminated in sex with men seemed to be the rule, but these were a turn-off for him. His fantasy world would have no men in it. With the exception of occasional nocturnal emissions, he had never experienced an orgasm in his life without a feminization fantasy playing in his head. He felt that some essential element of normal sexuality was missing in him; he felt sexually crippled. His obligatory reliance on feminization fantasies for arousal felt like a mental illness.He consulted three different psychologists and psychiatrists about his wish to be female at various times in his life, but none was able to offer him any solutions, nor even a diagnosis that made sense to him. Eventually he consulted a therapist who specialized in transgender issues. She told him that he might be able to pass as a woman after all and might even be a candidate for SRS. At last he thought he saw a way forward. He started attending crossdressing conventions and gradually developed con fi dence in his ability to pass as a female.He underwent facial hair removal and medically supervised hormone therapy. He grew his hair long, learned makeup skills, and acquired an appropriate feminine wardrobe. He changed his name, started living full-time as a woman, and eventually underwent SRS.She—a pronoun change is now required—was delighted with the results of SRS. She loved having female genitalia; she liked her body for the fi rst time in her life. She loved living as a woman, too; she adored women and was proud to be one of them at last. She had her fi rst awake orgasm as a woman a few months after SRS, masturbating the same way she had as a man. She still found that feminization fantasies were obligatory to reach orgasm. Her orgasms after SRS were less intense and harder to achieve, but at least she was no longer miserable and depressed after having them: Her body was fi nally as it should be. She dated lesbian women and other MtF transsexuals and had sex with some of them, but she could never achieve orgasm in their presence. She would have needed to rely on feminization fantasies for this, and she somehow couldn’t bring herself to do so. Eventually she resigned herself to celibacy, although she missed the simple comfort of another woman’s bodypressed against her own. She still has never had an orgasm while awake without a feminization fantasy running in her head. She still regards her obligatory reliance on feminization fantasies for arousal—her autogynephilia—as a mental illness: a profound, disabling defect in her ability to feel genuine sexual love for another person.The term autogynephilia was introduced in 1989 by psychologist Ray Blanchard(Blanchard, 1989a ) ; it literally means “love of oneself as a woman” (in Greek, auto = self, gynē = woman, and philia = love). Blanchard formally de fi ned autogynephilia as “a male’s propensity to be sexually aroused by the thought of himself as afemale” (Blanchard, 1989b , p. 616). Blanchard theorized, based on his own research and that of other investigators, that all or almost all nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals have the propensity to be sexually aroused by the thought of themselves as females. He further theorized that these transsexuals’ desire for sex reassignment is directly linked to their autogynephilic desire to be female.Blanchard’s theory that “nonhomosexual MtF transsexualism equals autogynephilic transsexualism” was both evolutionary and revolutionary. It was evolutionary in the sense that it could be seen as a logical extension of previous observations about transvestism (i.e., erotic cross-dressing) and MtF transsexualism that had been published in the psychiatric literature, albeit that perhaps were not yet widely appreciated. Clinicians and researchers had observed, for example, that:• Some cases of MtF transsexualism developed from what originally appeared tobe transvestism (Lukianowicz, 1959 ) .• Transvestites as well as transsexuals experienced a form of cross-gender identity (desire to be the other sex; Stoller, 1968 ) .• The transvestite’s “key fantasy” was “becoming a woman” (Ovesey & Person,1976 , p. 229), not merely dressing as a woman.• Some MtF transsexuals were homosexual in orientation, whereas others were primarily heterosexual but also had a history of transvestism (Money & Gaskin,1970 /1971).• MtF transsexualism was (virtually) always accompanied or preceded by one of two anomalous erotic preferences—either homosexuality or erotic arousal associated with cross-dressing or cross-gender fantasy (Freund, Steiner, & Chan, 1982 ) .To synthesize these observations and derive from them the theory that all or almost all MtF transsexuals who are nonhomosexual in orientation have the propensity to be sexually aroused by the fantasy of themselves as female could be seen, at least in retrospect, as an unremarkable deductive leap.But Blanchard’s theory equating nonhomosexual MtF transsexualism with autogynephilic transsexualism was also revolutionary, in that it emphasized the erotic fantasy of oneself as a female as the essential feature underlying this variety of transsexualism. The concept of autogynephilia placed erotic desire at the center ofthe transsexual experience for nonhomosexual men: It suggested, at least implicitly, that autogynephilic erotic desire, or some closely related derivative of it, could be thought of as the driving or motivating force behind the desire for sex reassignment in nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals. This was a revolutionary challenge to the dominant paradigm, which asserted that transsexualism was entirely about expressing one’s “true” gender identity and had nothing whatsoever to do with sexual arousal or erotic desire.The concept of autogynephilia, then, provided more than just a new and more precise name for a recognized erotic phenomenon—sexual arousal associated with cross-dressing or cross-gender fantasy. It also provided the basis for a proposed typology of MtF transsexualism, in that Blanchard theorized that all or virtually all MtF transsexuals were either exclusively homosexual or were nonhomosexual and autogynephilic. Moreover, the concept of autogynephilia at least implicitly provided a theory of motivation for the pursuit of sex reassignment by nonhomosexual men: These autogynephilic men plausibly were motivated to seek sex reassignment because it would allow them to actualize their desires to have female bodies—desires that grew out of their autogynephilic fantasies.The narrative histories of MtF transsexuals who have experienced autogynephilic arousal are the subject of this book. These transsexuals, whom I have called“men trapped in men’s bodies,” have important stories to tell—stories that are virtually unknown, both to the professionals who treat transsexual clients and to persons who experience autogynephilic arousal, think about undergoing sex reassignment, and may be searching for narrative histories that will help them better understand themselves. Before considering these narratives of autogynephilic transsexualism, however, it will be helpful to examine the observations and investigations that led Blanchard to develop the concept of autogynephilia and the MtF transsexual typology and implicit theory of transsexual motivation associated with it. It will also be useful to review the limited studies of autogynephilia conducted by other researchers.De fi nitions and TerminologyClarifying some de fi nitions and terminology is a necessary fi rst step. The task is complicated by the fact that de fi nitions of some important terms related to transsexualism have been used inconsistently or have changed over time. Three terms that come up repeatedly are gender identity , cross-gender identity , and gender dysphoria . Brie fl y, gender identity is “a person’s inner conviction of being male or female” (American Psychiatric Association [APA], 2000 , p. 823). Cross-gender identity denotes the desire to belong to the opposite sex or gender. Gender dysphoria denotes discomfort with one’s biological sex or assigned gender. Cross-gender identity and gender dysphoria are highly correlated phenomena, as one would predict; but the denotations of the two terms are slightly different.The term gender identity has been used in two different ways. Sometimes it denotes the fundamental sense of being male or female that an individual develops during the fi rst 18–30 months of life and that is usually unchangeable thereafter; Stoller ( 1968 ) called this core gender identity . Nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals do not have female core gender identities: In childhood and adulthood, before and after sex reassignment, they know they are and always will be biologically male. Gender identity, however, can also denote a person’s sense of being psychologically male or female (Money, 1986 ) . Ovesey and Person ( 1973 ) distinguished between core gender identity and this latter type of gender identity, which “can be de fi ned as an individual’s self-evaluation of psychological maleness or femaleness” (p. 54).Docter ( 1988 ) described how nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals (and many transvestites) gradually develop strong, persistent female gender identities of this latter type after years or decades of presenting themselves as women. Nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals experience their newly developed female gender identities as incongruent with their core gender identities (Stoller, 1968 ) .Cross-gender identity (sometimes called cross-gender identi fi cation ) is usually thought of as being aspirational, at least initially: It re fl ects, in the words of Ovesey and Person ( 1973 ) , “a wish, not a conviction” (p. 64). Typical symptoms of cross-gender identity or identi fi cation include “stated desire to be the other sex [and]desire to live or be treated as the other sex” (APA, 2000 , p. 581). In the context oftranssexualism, there is usually an assumption, implicit or explicit, that a person’s cross-gender identity must be “strong and persistent” (APA, 2000 , p. 581) to beclinically signi fi cant. When a MtF transsexual’s cross-gender identity has become suf fi ciently strong and persistent, it can supplant her original core gender identity and become her new primary or dominant gender identity (Docter, 1988 ) .The word dysphoria denotes discomfort or discontent; the term gender dysphoria is applicable to persons who are “intensely and abidingly uncomfortable in theiranatomic and genetic sex and their assigned gender” (Fisk, 1974 , p. 10). Fisk also noted, however, that one of the cardinal signs of gender dysphoria is the intense wish to change sex—in other words, cross-gender identity. Blanchard did not always use the term gender dysphoria consistently; sometimes he described it exclusively in terms of discontent (e.g., “persistent discontent with the primary or secondary sexual characteristics of one’s body”; Blanchard, 1993b , p. 70) and at other times interms of discontent and aspiration (e.g., “discontent with one’s biological sex, the desire to possess the body of the opposite sex, and the desire to belong to the oppo-site sex”; Blanchard, 1993a , p. 301). Gender dysphoria and cross-gender identityseem to operate as two sides of the same coin in many or most patients with longstanding, clinically diagnosed transsexualism. Many autogynephilic men, however, probably experience signi fi cant gender dysphoria years or decades before they develop strong, persistent cross-gender identities.Transsexualism usually denotes either the combination of persistent cross-gender identity (desire to be the other sex) and severe gender dysphoria (APA,2000 , p. 828) or cross-gender identity that is usually accompanied by genderdysphoria and the wish for hormonal and surgical sex reassignment (World Health Organization [WHO], 1992 , p. 365). Blanchard ( 1993a ) considered transsexualism to be simply severe gender dysphoria. Transsexualism was an of fi cial diagnosis in the 1987 edition of theDiagnostic and Statistical Manual of MentalDisorders (DSM; APA, 1987 ) , but it was replaced in the 1994 edition by the new diagnosis of gender identity disorder (GID; APA, 1994 ) . GID is conceptualized as involving both strong, persistent cross-gender identity and persistent gender dysphoria (APA, 2000 , p. 581). The terms transsexualism and GID are often usedsynonymously (e.g., Selvaggi et al., 2005 ) . Recent studies have demonstrated that most of the symptoms that are associated with GID, transsexualism, and gender dysphoria—for example, cross-gender identi fi cation, feelings of similarity to the opposite sex, desire to live as the opposite sex, anatomic dysphoria, and desire for hormonal and surgical sex reassignment—are highly correlated in patients whohave been diagnosed with GID (Deogracias et al., 2007 ; Singh et al., 2010 ) .Accordingly, distinctions between “men with severe gender dysphoria,” “men with persistent cross-gender identities,” “men with GID,” and “MtF transsexuals”are likely to be subtle, if they are meaningful at all.Sexual orientation refers to the category of persons to whom an individual is sexually attracted (or with whom he or she tends to fall in love). The two terms most commonly used to describe sexual orientation are homosexual (sexually attracted to persons of the same sex) and heterosexual (sexually attracted to persons of the opposite sex). Because these terms are referenced to biological sex, they do not change after sex reassignment. For example, a MtF transsexual who has completed sex reassignment and is attracted to women is considered heterosexual. Alternatively, the terms androphilic (sexually attracted to men) and gynephilic (sexually attracted to women) can be used to describe sexual orientation without referencing the sex of the person who experiences the attraction.The latest edition of the DSM describes paraphilias as psychosexual disorders“characterized by recurrent, intense sexual urges, fantasies, or behaviors that involve unusual objects, activities, or situations and cause clinically signi fi cant distress or impairment in social, occupational, or other important areas of functioning” (APA, 2000 , p. 535). Some paraphilic behaviors are illegal or potentially harmful to other people; other paraphilic behaviors are both legal and harmless.Autogynephilia is one of the latter type of paraphilias (Blanchard, 1993a ) . Other recognized paraphilias that will be mentioned in this book include pedophilia (sexual attraction to children), fetishism (sexual attraction to speci fi c inanimate objects), zoophilia (sexual attraction to nonhuman animals), transvestic fetishism (sexual arousal to wearing women’s apparel), and sexual masochism (sexual arousal to experiencing suffering or humiliation). In some cases, a pattern of sexual attraction can be considered both a paraphilia and a sexual orientation; pedophilia andzoophilia are examples (Miletski, 2005 ; Seto, 2012 ) . Blanchard ( 1989a , 1993a ) considered autogynephilia to be both a paraphilia and a sexual orientation.Early Development of Blanchard developed the concept of autogynephilia in the course of his attempt to create a coherent system or taxonomy for classifying various types of gender dys-phoria or GID in men (Blanchard, 2005 ) . Clinicians had recognized for decades that men with gender dysphoria or transsexualism were heterogeneous in their clinical presentations. Many observers hypothesized that there were two or more distinct forms of MtF transsexualism, possibly with entirely different etiologies. Theorists had proposed several different taxonomies and classification schemes for MtFtranssexualism (for a review, see Lawrence 2010b ) . No one taxonomy, however, was generally accepted when Blanchard began his investigations.Blanchard decided to start with the classi fi cation system originally proposed by Magnus Hirschfeld, the pioneering German physician and sex researcher who coined the term transvestite in 1910 (Hirschfeld, 1910 /1991). Hirschfeld ( 1918 ) classi fi ed the individuals he called transvestites—a category that included both MtFtranssexuals and transvestites, as the terms are used today—into four groups, based on their erotic interest in men, women, both men and women, or neither men nor women. He referenced his classi fi cation system to a person’s biological sex; consequently, his system categorized a transvestite (or MtF transsexual) attracted to men as homosexual, one attracted to women as heterosexual, and one attracted to both men and women as bisexual . Hirschfeld called those transvestites and MtF transsexuals who were attracted to neither men nor women automonosexual , a term that is no longer widely used. Nowadays the preferred term for these individuals is analloerotic , “not sexually attracted to other people” (Blanchard, 1989a ) , although the more familiar but less accurate term asexual is sometimes substituted.In an early investigation, Blanchard(1985b ) classi fi ed 163 MtF transsexualpatients using Hirschfeld’s four categories and examined the percentage of patients in each group who gave a history of sexual arousal in association with cross-dressing.He discovered that 73% of the patients in the combined heterosexual, bisexual, and asexual/analloerotic groups gave such a history (the three groups were statistically indistinguishable from each other), versus only 15% in the homosexual group—a highly signi fi cant difference. Based on this result, Blanchard theorized that there were probably only two basic types of MtF transsexuals: a homosexual type and a“heterosexual” (nonhomosexual) type. His theory was consistent with Freund et al.’s ( 1982 ) observation that there existed two distinct types of cross-gender identity among transvestites and MtF transsexuals: one type associated with homosexual orientation and another type associated with what Freund et al. called cross-gender fetishism—sexual arousal in connection with cross-dressing or cross-genderfantasy.Because Blanchard had not yet coined the term autogynephilia, his study(Blanchard, 1985b ) also used the term cross-gender fetishism to refer to sexual arousal associated with cross-dressing. Freund et al. ( 1982 ) had stated that cross-gender fetishism is characterized by the subject’s fantasizing, during fetishistic activity, that he or she belongs to the opposite sex and that the fetish, always in such cases an object characteristic of the opposite sex, is used to induce or enhance cross-gender identity. (p. 50)Accounting for Departures from Theorized Associations with Sexual Orientation Both Freund et al. and Blanchard realized that the sexual arousal men experienced in association with cross-dressing and other forms of cross-gender fetishism was related to the fantasy of being female—the essential concept in autogynephilia—but this arousal was still linked conceptually to the idea of a fetish object. Blanchard ( 1985b ) expanded the idea of the fetish object to include activities symbolic of femininity; he noted that “the individual’s favorite such symbol might not be women’s clothing but some aspect of the feminine toilet, such as putting on makeup or shaving the legs” (p. 249). This expanded concept of the fetish object can be seen as laying the foundation for the more encompassing concept of autogynephilia.Blanchard ( 1985b ) also conceptualized the bisexual and analloerotic subtypes of MtF transsexualism as resulting from the interaction of a fundamentally heterosexual orientation with the yet-unnamed “erotic anomaly” that underlay cross-gender fetishism:The differentiation of these subtypes from the heterosexual “parent group” is brought about by two different processes. In asexual [MtF] transsexualism, cross-gender fetishism (or the anomaly underlying it) so overshadows, or competes with, the erotic attraction to females that the individual appears to have little erotic attraction to other persons at all; his heterosexuality is, in a sense, latent. The process believed to account for the apparent existence of bisexual [MtF] transsexuals is somewhat different. In these individuals, the erotic anomaly manifested in cross-gender fetishism alsofinds expression in the fantasy of havingintercourse, as a woman, with a man. The effective erotic stimulus, however, is not the male physique per se, as it is in true homosexual attraction, but rather the thought of being a female, which is symbolized in the fantasy of being penetrated by a male. For these persons, the imagined—occasionally real—male sexual partner serves the same function as women’s apparel or makeup, namely, to aid and intensify the fantasy of being a woman.(pp. 249–250)Four years later, Blanchard would coin a term for the underlying erotic anomaly in cross-gender fetishism: autogynephilia.with Sexual OrientationAstute readers will have noted that the association Blanchard ( 1985b ) observed between cross-gender fetishism and sexual orientation in MtF transsexuals was not a perfect one: About 27% of nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals denied cross-gender fetishism, and about 15% of homosexual MtF transsexuals reported it. These departures from the predictions of Blanchard’s theory have not escaped the notice of his theory’s critics. Some of them have argued that, because many nonhomosexual MtFtranssexuals deny cross-gender fetishism, at least some cases of nonhomosexual MtF transsexualism may be unrelated to cross-gender fetishism or autogynephilia and that these may constitute a putative “third type.” Others have argued that, because some homosexual MtF transsexuals report cross-gender fetishism, this (or the erotic anomaly that underlies it) is merely an incidental fi nding with no particular typological or etiological signi fi cance. Subsequent investigations have also foundthe relationship between MtF transsexual typology and autogynephilia to be strongbut not perfect (Blanchard & Clemmensen,; Blanchard, Clemmensen, &Steiner, 1987 ; Lawrence, 2005 ; Nuttbrock, Bockting, Mason, et al., 2011 ) . Blanchard conducted two additional studies prior to his introduction of the term autogynephilia that helped put these departures from his theory’s predictions into perspective.Blanchard, Racansky, and Steiner ( 1986 ) measured changes in penile blood volume in 37 heterosexual cross-dressing men who listened to audiotaped recordings of narratives describing four scenarios: cross-dressing, sex as a female with a male partner, sex as a male with a female partner, and solitary, nonsexual activity. The participants included transvestites, nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals, and nonhomosexual men with intermediate conditions. The participants were divided into groups, based on whether they claimed they had always, usually, rarely, or never felt sexually aroused when cross-dressing during the previous year. All four groups displayed signi fi cantly greater physiological sexual arousal (measured as mean increase in penile volume) in response to the cross-dressing narrative than in response to the neutral, nonsexual narrative; this included the group that denied having felt sexually aroused during cross-dressing. Interestingly, six out of nine members of the latter group claimed that they had never been aroused by crossdressing at any time. Blanchard et al. concluded that nonhomosexual cross- dressing men, “even those who deny recent or past erotic arousal in association with crossdressing or applying makeup, still tend to respond with penile tumescence to fantasies of such activities” (p. 460). In short, many or most nonhomosexual cross-dressing men who deny sexual arousal in association with cross-dressing are not reporting accurately. This result suggested, at least by implication, that many or most of the nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals who deny sexual arousal in association with cross-dressing or autogynephilic fantasy are also not reporting accurately. Blanchard theorized that the misreporting his participants engaged in probably was not intentional, but re fl ected a genuine lack of awareness of their sexual arousal. This explanation plausibly accounts for many or most instances in which nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals deny having experienced autogynephilic sexual arousal.An interesting incidental fi nding of the Blanchard et al. ( 1986 ) study was that, for many of the participants—including those who described themselves as sometimes but not always sexually aroused by cross-dressing—the most sexually arousing scenario of the four was the fantasy of being a female having sex with a male. Blanchard had previously argued that sexual arousal in this context re fl ected the autogynephilic fantasy of enacting the female sexual role, not genuine attraction to the male physique. One could speculate that this pattern of autogynephilic fantasy might eventually lead some heterosexual cross-dressing men, including some nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals, to conclude that their sexual orientation had changed and that they had become exclusively sexually attracted to men. This might account for the existence of supposedly “homosexual” MtF transsexuals who report a history of sexual arousal with cross-dressing or cross-gender fantasy. A recent article that summarized data from four northernAccounting for Departures from Theorized Associations with Sexual Orientation European gender clinics provided additional support for this explanation: It reported that 23 (52%) of 44 male patients with adult-onset gender dysphoria described themselves as exclusively sexually attracted to men, but their treating clinicians believed that only 4 (9%) were genuinely androphilic, based on patient interviewsand clinical records (Nieder et al., 2011 ) . There are also several reports of nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals who admitted that they deliberately misrepresented themselves to clinicians as homosexual (Blanchard, Steiner, & Clemmensen,1985 ; Walworth, 1997 ) .In a second important study that is relevant to understanding departures from the predicted relationship between autogynephilia and MtF transsexual typology,Blanchard, Clemmensen, & Steiner()studied the association between aself-favorable or socially desirable response style (the tendency to describe oneself in morally excellent or admirable terms) and several aspects of self-reported clinical history in 64 heterosexual male gender patients, about two thirds of whom were MtF transsexuals. Blanchard, Clemmensen, et al. found that a socially desirable response style was strongly correlated with the tendency to describe oneself as a “classic” or “textbook” example of MtF transsexualism: one “who has felt and acted feminine from earliest childhood, has never been sexually aroused by women’s apparel, and is romantically inclined toward males” (p. 508). The aspect of clinical history that was most highly correlated with socially desirable responding was absence (or denial) of cross-gender fetishism. It seems plausible, therefore, that some cases in which nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals deny autogynephilic arousal may reflect the influence of self-favorable or socially desirableresponding.Further evidence that persons who experience autogynephilic arousal with cross-dressing often deny such arousal and that denial is associated with socially desirable responding comes from a recent study involving adolescent boys, mean age 14 years, who were referred to a gender identity clinic because of transvesticfetishism (Zucker et al., 2012 ) . Remarkably, 45 (47%) of 96 boys did not admit to sexual arousal associated with cross-dressing on even a single item of a 10-item scale measuring transvestic fetishism, even though this was the very problem for which they were clinically referred. In this study, too, a socially desirable response style was strongly correlated with denial of sexual arousal with cross-dressing.It is important to recognize that socially desirable responding does not necessar-ily imply deliberate misrepresentation or lying. Paulhus(1984 ) observed thatsocially desirable responding can re fl ect either impression management (conscious misrepresentation) or self-deceptive enhancement (self-favorable presentation that is genuinely believed to be true). It is entirely possible that many instances in which Blanchard et al.’s ( 1986 ) heterosexual cross-dressing men denied being sexually aroused, despite the fact that they actually were, and many instances in which Zucker et al.’s ( 2012 ) adolescent boys denied transvestic fetishism, despite being clinically referred for this, were attributable to self-deceptive enhancement, not deliberate misrepresentation.In another investigation of MtF transsexual typology, Blanchard et al. ( 1987 ) studied 125 gender dysphoric male patients, of whom 52 were classi fi ed as homosexual and 73 as heterosexual (i.e., nonhomosexual). About 82% of the nonhomosexual patients had a history of sexual arousal with cross-dressing, compared to roughly 10% of the homosexual patients; this was consistent with previous observations of a statistically strong but not perfect relationship between sexual orientation and cross-gender fetishism (i.e., autogynephilia). The nonhomosexual patients presented for assessment at an older mean age than the homosexual patients, about 34 vs. years. The nonhomosexual and homosexual patients began cross-dressing at about the same mean ages—9.6 and 11.0 years, respectively—but the mean age of fi rst cross-gender wishes was signi fi cantly older in the nonhomosexual group, 9.8 vs. 7.years. On average, then, the nonhomosexual gender dysphoric men began to have cross-gender wishes around the same time or shortly after they began cross-dressing, whereas the homosexual gender dysphoric men began to have cross-gender wishes more than 3 years before they began cross-dressing. Blanchard et al. concluded that the pattern of the data was “consistent with the view that heterosexual and homosexual gender dysphoria are likely to prove etiologically distinct conditions”(p. 149).Blanchard ( )subsequently examined self-reported childhood femininityand age at clinical assessment in 256 MtF transsexuals, whom he divided into homosexual, heterosexual, bisexual, and asexual/analloerotic groups. Comparing equal numbers of participants ( n = 16) from each of these four groups, Blanchard found that the homosexual participants reported signi fi cantly greater childhood femininity and also presented for assessment at a signi fi cantly younger mean age than the heterosexual, bisexual, and asexual/analloerotic participants; the three nonhomosexual groups did not differ signi fi cantly from each other on either childhood femininity or mean age at assessment. Although this study did not address autogynephilia or cross-gender fetishism directly, it provided further evidence that there are two distinctly different types of MtF transsexualism: one associated with homosexual orientation and greater childhood femininity and another associated with nonhomosexual orientation and less childhood femininity.In the same year, Blanchard and Clemmensen ( 1988 ) investigated the relationship between severity of gender dysphoria and frequency of sexual arousal and masturbation accompanying cross-dressing in 193 nonhomosexual gender dysphoric men. Lacking a speci fi c measure of gender dysphoria, they used persistence of cross-gender identity as a proxy for this—a reasonable strategy, as the latter measure was strongly associated with the likelihood that an individual had an interest in SRS. Blanchard and Clemmensen found that the gender dysphoric men with more persistent cross-gender identities (and by implication, more intense gender dysphoria) reported less frequent sexual arousal and less frequent masturbation with crossdressing—a relationship that the authors thought might re fl ect socially desirableresponding, at least in part. Nevertheless, more than half of the men with the most intense gender dysphoria reported that they had sometimes been sexually aroused when cross-dressing during the past year, and just under one-half reported that they had at least occasionally masturbated when cross-dressing during the past year.Among the men who acknowledged ever having experienced sexual arousal with cross-dressing—only about 84% of the men did—roughly half reported that they sometimes considered sexual arousal with cross-dressing to be bothersome. This fi nding was consistent with a previous report by Buhrich ( 1978 ) that heterosexual cross-dressing men sometimes experience sexual arousal associated with crossdressing as unwanted.Blanchard fi rst used the term autogynephilia in two articles published in 1989.In the fi rst of these (Blanchard, 1989a ) , he reviewed his own and earlier attempts to construct meaningful taxonomies of gender dysphoria and gender identity disorders in men. He concluded that “the nonhomosexual gender dysphorias, together with transvestism, constitute a family of related disorders” (p. 322) and that the “erotic (or amatory) propensity” (p. 323) underlying these disorders should be called autogynephilia (“love of oneself as a woman”). As far as I am aware, this was the fi rst article in which Blanchard referred to autogynephilia as a sexual orientation , when he theorized that “All gender dysphoric males who are not sexually oriented toward men are instead sexually oriented toward the thought or image of themselves as women.”(pp. 322–323). Blanchard would reintroduce the concept of autogynephilia as asexual orientation 4 years later in a more elaborated form (Blanchard, 1993a ) .In a second article published in the same year, Blanchard ( 1989b ) described two newly developed scales for measuring aspects of autogynephilia and one for measuring sexual interest in other persons. He reported on the ability of these scales to distinguish homosexual, heterosexual, bisexual, and asexual/analloerotic subgroups within a sample of 212 MtF transsexuals. Blanchard found that scores on the Core Autogynephilia Scale, a measure of erotic arousal in association with the fantasy of having various features of the nude female form (face, breasts, vulva, etc.) were signi fi cantly higher in the three nonhomosexual groups than in the homosexual group. Scores on the Autogynephilic Interpersonal Fantasy Scale, a measure of erotic arousal in association with the fantasy of being admired as a female by another person, were signi fi cantly higher in the bisexual group than in the other three groups. Scores on the Alloeroticism Scale, a measure of sexual attraction to other people, were signi fi cantly lower in the asexual/analloerotic group than in the other three groups. Two previously developed scales also differed between groups: The homosexual group achieved signi fi cantly lower scores on measures of Heterosexual Experience and Cross-Gender Fetishism than the three nonhomosexual groups. Blanchard concluded that his fi ndings supported the theory that “the major types of nonhomosexual gender dysphoria constitute variantforms of one underlying disorder, which may be characterized as autogynephilic gender dysphoria” (p. 616). Among the three nonhomosexual types, bisexual MtFtranssexuals achieved signi fi cantly higher scores on autogynephilic interpersonal fantasy, suggesting the hypothesis that “bisexual gender dysphorics’ interest in male sexual partners is mediated by a particularly strong desire to have their physical attractiveness as women validated by others” (p. 622). Blanchard cautioned, however, that the term “bisexual” should not be interpreted too literally: “This ‘bisexual’behavior need not re fl ect an equal erotic attraction to the male and female physiques (and would perhaps be better characterized as pseudobisexuality )” (p. 622).Blanchard’s Proposed Transsexual Typology: Brief Comments Blanchard’s ( 1989a ) proposal that “all gender dysphoric males who are not sexually oriented toward men are instead sexually oriented toward the thought or image of themselves as women” (pp. 322–323) was the fi rst explicit statement of the MtFtranssexual typology that would prove to be the most controversial outgrowth of the concept of autogynephilia. Some readers might expect me to discuss this typology in detail, setting forth the evidence pro and con; but I have decided not to do so. The aim of this book is to present and discuss the narratives of transsexuals who report that they have experienced autogynephilia, whereas most of the debate about Blanchard’s typology concerns the experiences of nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals who allege that they have not experienced autogynephilia and therefore purportedly do not conform to the typology. Consequently, a detailed examination of the arguments for and against Blanchard’s typology is really peripheral to the aim of this book.I would simply like to state for the record that, based on my clinical experience and my reading of the scienti fi c literature, I am fi rmly convinced that the overwhelming majority—probably 98% or more—of cases of severe gender dysphoria in men arise in connection with either effeminate homosexuality or autogynephilia; most of the rare exceptions probably arise in connection with conditions such as schizophrenia and certain personality disorders. The idea that substantial numbers of MtF transsexuals belong to a putative “third type” that is neither homosexual nor autogynephilic is inconsistent with my clinical experience and is, in my opinion, inconsistent with the best available empirical evidence. It is true that, in severalmajor studies (Blanchard 1985b ; Blanchard et al., 1987 ; Blanchard & Clemmensen,1988 ; Lawrence, 2005 ; Nuttbrock, Bockting, Mason, et al., 2011 ) , between 11%and 27% of nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals or gender dysphoric men denied having experienced autogynephilic arousal; but, based on observations in other studiesdescribed earlier (Blanchard et al., 1986 ; Blanchard, Clemmensen, et al., 1985 ;Zucker et al., 2012 ) , their denials can easily be accounted for without theorizing the existence of a third major MtF transsexual type. Some clinicians and researchers disagree with my point of view. Arguments against Blanchard’s transsexual typology have been presented in recent articles by Moser ( 2010 ) and Serano ( 2010 ) ; interested readers may wish to consult these articles.In proposing the concept of autogynephilia, Blanchard took a huge step toward explaining the phenomenon of “men trapped in men’s bodies”—men who are not effeminate and are sexually attracted to women but also want to become women.The concept itself was only the beginning, however: Blanchard continued to conduct research on autogynephilia during the early 1990s, further extending and developing the associated theory. Other clinicians and researchers neglected Blanchard’s concept for several years, but eventually some of them also began to investigate the clinical manifestations of autogynephilia, the associated MtF transsexual typology, and the implications of these for understanding and treating male gender dysphoria.These developments will be the subject of Chap. 2 .After Blanchard proposed the concept of autogynephilia and the MtF transsexualtypology associated with it (Blanchard, 1989a, 1989b ) , he continued to conduct research to extend the concept, develop the theory associated with it, and explore its clinical manifestations and therapeutic implications. His work resulted in severalimportant publications in the early 1990s (Blanchard, 1991, 1992, 1993a, 1993b,1993c ; Freund & Blanchard, 1993 ) . Autogynephilia subsequently received little attention for several years. Eventually, however, clinicians and researchers again began to recognize and study autogynephilia in transsexuals and examine the diagnostic and therapeutic implications of the concept of autogynephilia.Blanchard ( 1991 ) addressed the topic of autogynephilia in a major review article that also introduced new concepts and new data. He observed that there appeared to be four broad, nonexclusive categories of autogynephilic fantasies and behaviors: physiologic , involving female physiologic functions (e.g., pregnancy, lactation, or menstruation); behavioral , involving engaging in stereotypically feminine behaviors; anatomic , involving having female anatomic features; and transvestic , involving wearing women’s clothing. He noted that “the most common behavioral fantasies of adult autogynephilic men involve the thought of themselves, as women, engaging in sexual intercourse or other erotic activities” (p. 237), especially with male partners. Blanchard then presented an important case history, that of Philip, an autogynephilic man whose favorite erotic fantasy was having a woman’s body but who had never cross-dressed as an adult. Philip’s case demonstrated that “when a patient’s primary sexual object is the thought of himself with a woman’s body, there may be little overt paraphilic behavior” (p. 239). The article presented new data ,about the co-occurrence of anatomic autogynephilia, transvestism, and fetishism (sexual attraction to speci fi c inanimate objects): 90% of men with anatomic autogynephilia reported co-occurring transvestism, and 55% reported co-occurring fetishism. These results were consistent with the recognized tendency of paraphilic sexualinterests to co-occur or cluster (Abel & Osborn, 1992 ; Gosselin & Wilson, 1980 ) .Blanchard’s review article also contained an important section called“Etiological Conjectures” (pp. 246–248), in which Blanchard theorized about the etiologies of autogynephilia and transsexualism in nonhomosexual men. Regarding the former, Blanchard suggested that anatomic autogynephilia, transvestism, and fetishism for female garments all involved “a kind of error in locating heterosexual targets in the environment” (p. 246). He presented his ideas on this topic in greaterdetail in an article that appeared 2 years later (Freund & Blanchard, 1993 ) ; because his formulation is a complicated one, I will defer a detailed explanation until I discuss that article later in this chapter.Blanchard ( 1991 ) further theorized that nonhomosexual MtF transsexualism has its origin in autogynephilic sexual arousal but can eventually develop a sustaining force of its own, one in which sexual arousal per se plays little or no part. His analysis is important enough to quote at length:Any viable theory relating the etiologies of autogynephilia and transsexualism must explain the following well-established observation: Gender dysphoria, in young nonhomosexual males, usually appears along with, or subsequent to, autogynephilia; in later years, however, autogynephilic sexual arousal may diminish or disappear, while the transsexual wish remains or grows even stronger. Such histories are often produced by gender dysphoric patients, but one does not have to rely on self-report to accept that the transsexual motive may attain, or inherently possess, some independence from autogynephilia. The same conclusion is suggested by the fact that surgical castration and estrogen treatment—which decrease libido in gender dysphorics as in other men—usually have no effect on the desire to live as a female or the resolve to remain in that role.One may speculate that the above developmental sequence re fl ects the operation, in autogynephilic men, of certain normal heterosexual behaviors. Many men, after years of marriage, are less excited by their wives than they were initially but continue to be deeply attached to them; in other words, pair-bonding, once established, is not necessarily dependent on the continuation of high levels of sexual attraction. It is therefore feasible that the continuing desire to have a female body, after the disappearance of sexual response to that thought, has some analog in the permanent love-bond that may remain between two people after their initial strong sexual attraction has largely disappeared. (p. 248) Blanchard was making the point that nonhomosexual MtF transsexualism starts out as an erotic phenomenon and remains a sexual phenomenon in the broadest sense.However, the transsexual wish could eventually be sustained by something resembling pair-bonding—a form of attachment—after the erotic elements that characterized its early phase diminished or disappeared, just as a conventional romantic relationship can be sustained by pair-bonding or attachment after the intense erotic attraction of its early phase begins to fade.Blanchard’s idea that nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals could developsomething resembling pair-bonded relationships with their idealized images of themselves as female-bodied persons might sound bizarre to anyone who has not experienced autogynephilia fi rsthand, but Blanchard was not the fi rst investigator tomake such a suggestion. Buckner ( 1970 ) had previously observed that the typical heterosexual transvestite also “acts toward himself in a way that a normal person acts toward a socio-sexually signi fi cant other” (p. 381). Buckner added that When a male adopts this pattern [of masturbation with articles of feminine clothing] and elaborates it into an entire feminine identity, he fi nds it gratifying in both sexual and social ways. When it becomes fi xed in his identity, he begins to relate toward himself in some particulars as if he were his own wife. (p. 387)In other words, a pattern of cross-gender behavior that begins with erotic crossdressing can evolve to a point at which the heterosexual transvestite seems to be engaged in something resembling a pair-bonded relationship with the feminine aspect of himself.Buckner’s ( 1970 ) concept of an elaborated “entire feminine identity” offers another key to understanding this phenomenon. I have previously noted that the term cross-gender identity is aspirational, at least as it is often operationally de fi ned: It denotes the gender that the gender dysphoric person wants to become, not the gender that he or she already is . But with time and lived experience in the opposite gender role, the cross-gender identity of a gender dysphoric man need not remain wholly aspirational: It can become a well-developed, highly valued part of his self-system and can eventually supplant his original male gender identity and become his (or her) dominant gender identity. Both Docter ( 1988 ) and Doorn, Poortinga, and Verschoor ( 1994 ) conceptualized the development of “secondary” or “late-onset” MtF transsexualism—roughly synonymous with nonhomosexual MtFtranssexualism—as reflecting the ascendency of an increasingly powerful andesteemed female gender identity within the self-system of a gender dysphoric man.Whether one prefers to think of the genesis and continuation of nonhomosexual MtF transsexualism in terms of something resembling attachment (or pair-bonding) to the image of one’s female-bodied self or in terms of the ascendency of a new, cherished female gender identity within one’s self-system is not terribly important.Both represent attempts to put into words something that is hard to understand and adequately describe, even for those of us who have experienced it: the process by which a man’s erotic desire to turn his body into a facsimile of a female body eventually gives rise to a strongly held, highly valued cross-gender identity and the process by which that new identity—that image of himself as a female—becomes the focus of his desire, admiration, idealization, attachment, and love—the same emotions that he might experience for an actual female partner.A few years later, Blanchard ( 1993c ) would express these same ideas slightly differently in his observation that the “behavior and motivation [underlying nonhomosexual MtF transsexualism] is subjectively experienced as a desire for physical union with a feminine self-image” (p. 243) and in his theory that “an autogynephile’s desire to unite in the fl esh with his feminine self-image corresponds to a heterosexual’s desire to unite in marriage with a female partner” (p. 243).Blanchard ( )subsequently examined the relationship between strength ofheterosexual attraction and intensity of anatomic autogynephilia in a sample of transvestic or gender dysphoric men. He hypothesized that “autogynephilia arises in association with heterosexuality but also competes with it” (p. 273) and this is exactly what the data revealed: The highest levels of autogynephilia were associated with intermediate levels of heterosexual attraction. Blanchard interpreted these results as consistent with the theory that autogynephilia is a variant form of heterosexuality that also competes with heterosexual interest. Men with little heterosexual attraction evince low levels of autogynephilia, and autogynephilia increases with increasing heterosexual attraction, at least to a point. Then increasing heterosexual attraction becomes associated with slightly but signi fi cantly lower levels of autogynephilia as a result of the theorized competition.Blanchard ( 1992 ) further theorized that autogynephilia was competitive with heterosexual attraction in two distinctly different ways. He observed that, although autogynephilia and heterosexual attraction usually coexisted, there were some cases in which autogynephilia was so intense that it effectively replaced heterosexual attraction. Individuals who experienced autogynephilia of this intensity were theoretically heterosexual—they were attracted to female bodies, not male bodies—but they experienced little or no attraction to the female bodies of other people (i.e., they were analloerotic). Blanchard believed that the relative intensities of alloerotic heterosexual attraction and autogynephilia were largely determined during psychosexual development, so he called this form of competition between autogynephilia and heterosexual attraction developmental competition (p. 275).But Blanchard ( )also observed that gender dysphoric men sometimesreported that their autogynephilic fantasies or enactments or their associated feelings of gender dysphoria temporarily became less intense or less compelling when they entered into a new heterosexual relationship or fell in love with a woman.Several case reports of this phenomenon exist in the psychiatric literature (e.g.,Marks, Green, & Mataix-Cols,; Shore,; Steiner,1985 ) . Blanchardreferred to this type of competition between autogynephilia and heterosexual attraction as dynamic competition (p. 275).In 1993, Blanchard published three investigations addressing the relationship between anatomic autogynephilia and gender dysphoria. In thefirst of these,Blanchard ( 1993c ) examined the association between the type of cross-gender self-image that cross-dressing men reported to be most strongly associated with sexual arousal—a nude female, a female clothed in underwear or sleepwear, or a fully clothed female—and the intensity of their gender dysphoria. He discovered that the men who were most sexually aroused by the image of themselves as nude womenwere signi fi cantly more gender dysphoric than the others. He concluded that the results supported “the hypothesis that those nonhomosexual men most aroused sexually by the thought of having a woman’s body are also those most interested in acquiring a woman’s body through some permanent, physical transformation”(p. 241). Blanchard further suggested that “the fi nding that the speci fi c content of autogynephiles’ erotic fantasies relates to their degree of gender dysphoria has potential relevance for practical clinical prognosis” (p. 248). Speci fi cally, he conjectured that the content of an autogynephilic patient’s sexual fantasies might prove to be a useful prognostic indicator of the likelihood that the patient would eventually decide to pursue sex reassignment. Unfortunately, no subsequent researchers appear to have investigated this intriguing idea.In a related study, Blanchard ( 1993a ) investigated differences in the strength of gender dysphoria in autogynephilic men who were or were not sexually aroused by imagining themselves with various speci fi c female anatomic features (breasts, buttocks, legs, genitals, and face). He found that men who reported being sexually aroused by picturing themselves with female genitals—interestingly, only 86% of the autogynephilic individuals so reported—were signi fi cantly more gender dysphoric than those who denied such arousal. These results con fi rmed that “men who are sexually aroused at the thought of having a vulva are more likely to want to be women” (p. 301). Blanchard went on to explain:The present study and my previous studies on this topic [Blanchard, 1993b, 1993c ] all point to the conclusion that the female attributes a man imagines when sexually aroused are related to the type and degree of feminization that he desires at other times. This simple and rather intuitive observation runs counter to the prevailing view in the clinical fi eld of gender dysphoria. The majority of workers committed to the care of gender-dysphoric patients has maintained the position that paraphilias and gender identity disorders are completely separate entities, against the minority view that these are related, albeit distinguishable, phenomena. The present study supports the latter position and suggests that—in nonhomosexual men—autogynephilia and gender dysphoria are two sides of the same coin. (p. 306) Thus, in nonhomosexual men, autogynephilia, gender dysphoria, and cross-gender identity are merely different sides of the same paraphilic (or paraphilia-related) phenomenon.In the same article, Blanchard ( 1993a ) also expanded on his earlier suggestion(Blanchard, 1989a ) that autogynephilia can be considered a sexual orientation.He observed that, paraphilic features notwithstanding,autogynephilia might be better characterized as an orientation than as a paraphilia. The term orientation encompasses behavior, correlated with sexual behavior but distinct from it, that may ultimately have a greater impact on the life of the individual. For heterosexual and homosexual men, such correlated behavior includes courtship, love, and cohabitation with a partner of the preferred sex; for autogynephilic men, it includes the desire to achieve, with clothing, hormones, or surgery, an appearance like the preferred self-image of their erotic fantasies. (p. 306)In yet another article, Blanchard ( 1993b ) described anatomic autogynephilia and gender dysphoria in men with partial autogynephilia —men whose “erotic self-images include a mixture of male and female anatomic features, most often women’s breasts and men’s genitals” (p. 71). The article included four case studies of partialautogynephiles who wanted to have female breasts but not female genitals; in most cases they were adamant about wanting to retain their male genitals. Blanchard described these partial autogynephiles as experiencing “agonizing levels of gender dysphoria” (p. 75), presumably because they experienced severe discontent with their secondary sex characteristics, albeit no discontent with their primary sex characteristics (i.e., their genitals).Blanchard coauthored a seminal article (Freund & Blanchard, 1993 ) that described analogs of transvestic and anatomic autogynephilia in men who were pedophilic (sexually attracted to children). This article also described a man who was sexually attracted to anthropomorphic plush animals, masturbated using them, and fantasized becoming a plush animal himself. Freund and Blanchard proposed that there existed a hitherto unrecognized class of paraphilias in which affected men experienced powerful erotic desires to impersonate or make their bodies resemble the types of persons or things to which they felt sexually attracted. Speci fi cally, they theorized that: For every class of sexual object, there will be small subgroups of men who develop the erotic fantasy of being the desired object, and who develop the sustained wish to transform their own bodies into facsimiles of the desired object. (p. 562)Freund and Blanchard thought that paraphilias of this kind represented erotic target location errors . This term re fl ected their theory that the mental dysfunction underlying these paraphilias involved an error in accurately locating the “target” of one’s erotic interest: speci fi cally, erroneously locating that target in or on one’s own body, rather than in or on the body of another individual. Readers who would like to learn more about erotic target location errors are invited to consult my review article(Lawrence, 2009a ) , but an in-depth understanding of the concept is not essential.What is genuinely important is that Freund and Blanchard described pedophilic men who experienced precise analogs of transvestic and anatomic autogynephilia: sexual arousal associated with wearing children’s clothing (or replicas thereof) and imagining themselves to be children.Thirteen years later, I theorized that men who desired to undergo elective amputation of a healthy limb and were often sexually aroused by the idea of doing so—a phenomenon historically conceptualized as a paraphilia calledapotemnophilia(Money, Jobaris, & Furth, 1977 ) —likewise experienced something analogous toanatomic autogynephilia (Lawrence, 2006 ) . I observed that data from several published reports suggested that these men were almost always sexually attracted to amputees and were often sexually aroused by impersonating amputees; moreover, they displayed a much higher than expected prevalence of transvestism and GID.I proposed thatapotemnophilia may represent the intersection of two distinctly different paraphilic aspects or dimensions. One dimension involves an uncommon erotic target preference: attractionto amputees. The second dimension involves an erotic target location error, in which the individual desires to turn his body into the desired erotic target (or a facsimile thereof), rather than simply desiring that body con fi guration in another person. (p. 269) A few years later, I described additional instances of pedophilic men who displayedanalogs of transvestic and anatomic autogynephilia (Lawrence, 2009a ) . In the same article, I summarized data concerning men who were sexually attracted to anthropomorphic plush animals, liked to costume themselves as plush animals and were sometimes sexually aroused by doing so, and seemed to identify with plush animals or fantasized becoming plush animals. I also presented data about men who were sexually attracted to real animals (i.e., who were zoophilic ) and identi fi ed as real animals and about other men who wished they could become real animals (i.e., who experienced species dysphoria —the belief that they were born as the wrong spe-cies; see Beetz, 2004 ) .Thus, there is persuasive evidence for the existence of men who are sexually attracted to children, identify as children, are sexually aroused by dressing as children, and want to turn their bodies into facsimiles of children’s bodies; men who are sexually attracted to amputees, identify as amputees, are sexually aroused by impersonating amputees, and want to have surgery to become amputees; men who are sexually attracted to plush animals, seem to identify with plush animals, like to impersonate plush animals and are sometimes sexually aroused by doing so, and probably fantasize about turning their bodies into facsimiles of plush animals; and men who are sexually attracted to real animals, identify as real animals, and may in some cases—although this is speculative—be sexually aroused by the idea of becoming real animals and fantasize about turning their bodies into facsimiles of real animals’ bodies.How does this information help us to understand the phenomenon of men who are sexually attracted to women, identify as women, are sexually aroused by dressing as women, and want to turn their bodies into facsimiles of women’s bodies—the phenomenon of autogynephilic transsexualism? I believe that the existence of these analogs of autogynephilic transsexualism calls into question the most in fl uential biological and psychoanalytic theories of nonhomosexual MtF transsexualism, because such theories should also be able to account for these analogous phenomena but cannot easily do so. For example: It is plausible that hormonal abnormalities during prenatal development could result in a male-bodied person with a brain thathad developed in a female-typical direction (Swaab, 2007 ) . It is less plausible that a prenatal developmental disturbance could result in a male-bodied person with a brain that had developed like that of an amputee or a plush animal. Turning to psychoanalytic explanations, it is plausible that a boy might attempt to manage unresolved separation anxiety arising in infancy by means of a “reparative fantasy of symbiotic fusion with the mother” (Person & Ovesey, 1974a , p. 5). It is less plausible that a boy might attempt to manage such unresolved separation anxiety through the fantasy of symbiotic fusion with another child, a plush animal, or an amputee.I consider it more parsimonious to theorize that autogynephilic MtF transsexualism and the analogous conditions that exist in men who are sexually attracted to children, amputees, plush animals, and perhaps real animals, all representmanifestations of an unusual type of paraphilia in which affected men feel sexually aroused by the idea of impersonating or becoming whatever category of person or thing they fi nd sexually attractive. Their paraphilic desires, in turn, often give rise to strongly held, highly valued alternative identities that ultimately become their dominant identities.After the publication of Blanchard’s 1993 articles, no further empirical investigations of autogynephilia were published for approximately 8 years. Docter and Fleming ( 2001 ) were apparently the fi rst to address the topic again after this hiatus.They used a 70-item questionnaire to measure aspects of transgender behavior in 455 self-described transvestites and 61 self-described MtF transsexuals. Large majorities of both groups had been married to women and only small minorities expressed a preference for male partners, so it is reasonable to assume that most, perhaps nearly all, participants were nonhomosexual (and thus putatively autogynephilic). In an initial factor analysis of the participants’ responses, Docter and Fleming extracted fi ve factors that characterized the transgender behavior of the participants; they called these factors Transgender Identity, Transgender Role, Transgender Sexual Arousal (in effect, a measure of transvestic autogynephilia), Androallure (interest in affectionate, social, or sexual encounters with men), and Pleasure. The authors then conducted a second-order factor analysis, based on the correlation matrix for the fi ve primary factors; this resulted in two Secondary Factors, I and II.Describing the results of this secondary factor analysis, Docter and Fleming observed:The original factor of Sexual Arousal was most heavily loaded on [Secondary] Factor I. The pattern of loadings for the other three [sic] original factors supports the interpretation of this as a Transvestic Autogynephilia factor—that is, experiencing sexual arousal in association with the thought or image of oneself as a woman. For Secondary Factor II, the highest loading (.57) was the primary factor of Androallure with moderate positive loadings for Identity and Role factors, and a very low loading (.17) for Sexual Arousal. We have named this factor Autogynephilic Pseudobisexuality. (p. 266)In summary, based on a survey of over 500 mostly nonhomosexual (and putatively primarily autogynephilic) transvestite and MtF transsexual participants, Docter and Fleming independently derived a high-order description of transgender behavior involving two main factors, Transvestic Autogynephilia and Autogynephilic Pseudobisexuality. These two factors closely resembled the two major dimensions of autogynephilia that Blanchard ( 1989b ) had described and operationalized in his Core Autogynephilia and Autogynephilic Interpersonal Fantasy scales, which werediscussed in Chap. 1 ; the principal difference was that Docter and Fleming’s questionnaire had emphasized transvestic autogynephilia, which was consequently emphasized in their Secondary Factor I. These results from Docter and Fleming canbe seen as an independent con fi rmation of Blanchard’s description of the major dimensions of autogynephilia, obtained using a completely different methodology.In 2003, I published the results of a survey of 232 MtF transsexuals who had undergone SRS with surgeon Toby Meltzer during the period 1994–2000 (Lawrence,2003 ) . I observed that about 86% of respondents had experienced one or more episodes of autogynephilic arousal before undergoing SRS and 49% had experienced hundreds of episodes or more. Two years later, in a second article based on data from the same survey, I reported that 89% of the respondents classi fi ed as nonhomosexual on the basis of their sexual partnership history reported one or more experiences of autogynephilic arousal before undergoing SRS, vs. 40% in the small number of respondents classi fi ed as homosexual (Lawrence, 2005 ) ; there was evidence that some of these supposedly homosexual participants had misreported their partnership histories and were actually nonhomosexual.Veale, Clarke, and Lomax ( 2008 ) reported the results of a survey of 234 MtFtranssexuals and 127 natal women, about 90% of whom completed survey materials online. The survey questionnaire included modi fi ed versions of Blanchard’s ( 1989b ) Core Autogynephilia and Autogynephilic Interpersonal Fantasy scales. The authors used cluster analysis to partition their MtF transsexual participants into ostensibly autogynephilic and nonautogynephilic groups, but their analytic procedures were questionable, and both groups obtained mean autogynephilia scores that were equal to or higher than the mean scores obtained by Blanchard’s ( 1989b ) nonhomosexual (autogynephilic) participants. As J. Michael Bailey and I observed in a Letter to the Editor commenting on these results, “Veale et al.’s cluster analysis really de fi ned an‘autogynephilic’ group and an ‘even more autogynephilic’ group” ( Lawrence &Bailey, 2009 , p. 174). Consequently, Veale et al.’s claims to have found results that were inconsistent with Blanchard’s typology of MtF transsexualism were unconvincing. Perhaps the most interesting fi nding from the Veale et al. survey was that autogynephilic arousal was extremely common, perhaps almost universal, in the MtF population that the authors recruited. Veale et al. observed that some natal women endorsed items on their modi fi ed autogynephilia scales but conceded that “it is unlikely that these biological females actually experience sexual attraction to oneself as a woman in the way that Blanchard conceptualized it” (p. 595).Moser ( 2009 ) conducted a survey of 29 natal women to determine whether any of them had experienced autogynephilic arousal. To this end, he constructed an Autogynephilia Scale for Women, using modi fi ed items from Blanchard’s scalesmeasuring cross-gender fetishism (Blanchard,1985a ) and autogynephilia(Blanchard, 1989b ) and a few items of his own devising. Several of Moser’s informants endorsed some of his survey items, but Moser himself conceded that “It is possible that autogynephilia among MTFs and natal women are different phenomena and the present inventories lack the sophistication to distinguish these differences” (p. 544). I subsequently argued that this was indeed the case, because Moser’s items “fail to adequately assess the essential element of autogynephilia—sexual arousal simply to the thought of being a female—because they do not emphasizethat element” (Lawrence, 2010d , p. 3).In 2010, I published a study of the relative prevalence of nonhomosexual andhomosexual MtF transsexualism across national cultures (Lawrence,2010c )that had implications for understanding the phenomenon of autogynephilic transsexualism. In this article, I attempted to explain the observation that nearly all MtFtranssexuals in Asian cultures are homosexual, whereas most MtF transsexuals in the USA, Canada, and the UK are nonhomosexual. I demonstrated that differences in a measure of societal individualism —the degree to which a culture condones its members pursuing personal happiness and self-expression, regardless of the opinions of others—accounted for most of the differences in the relative prevalence of nonhomosexual MtF transsexualism. If one assumes that nonhomosexual MtFtranssexualism is equivalent to autogynephilic transsexualism—a justi fiableassumption, in my opinion—these results suggest the hypothesis that the permissible expression of autogynephilia , rather than the prevalence or severity of autogynephilia, primarily accounts for these cross-cultural differences. Undergoing MtFsex reassignment probably feels far more permissible to autogynephilic men living in individualistic Western cultures than to their counterparts in cultures in which individual self-expression is discouraged.Nuttbrock, Bockting, Mason, et al. ( 2011 ) investigated the lifetime prevalence of one type of autogynephilia, transvestic fetishism (TF), in 571 MtF transgender persons—not all of whom were transsexual—living in New York City. Their fi ndings were similar to those reported by Blanchard ( 1985b ) : In their study, 73% of nonhomosexual participants reported a history of TF, compared to only 23% of homosexual participants. Deviations from the predictions of Blanchard’s theory could be accounted for by a combination of misreporting or inaccurate assessment of sexual orientation and underreporting of TF by affected persons (see Lawrence, 2010a ) . Nuttbrock, Bockting, Mason, et al., however, chose to emphasize a few areas in which they claimed their results deviated from the predictions of Blanchard’s theory. In particular, they argued—unconvincingly, in my opinion—that age and ethnicity, in addition to sexual orientation, were important predictors of TF. The authors and I debatedthese issues at length in a series of Letters to the Editor (Lawrence, 2010a , 2011b ;Nuttbrock, Bockting, Rosenblum, Mason, & Hwahng, 2010 , 2011 ) ; interested readers are referred to these letters for further details.One of the most revealing passages in the article by Nuttbrock, Bockting, Mason, et al. ( 2011 ) emphasized that Blanchard’s concept of autogynephilia and the MtFtranssexual typology derived from it had social and political implications that tran-scended issues of scienti fi c validity:[Blanchard’s] fi ndings have sociopolitical implications far beyond scienti fi c circles because they directly contradict basic tenets of the worldwide transgender movement: sex and gender are deemed to be separate, socially constructed dimensions of personal identity characterized by individual variation and social diversity. (p. 249)Leaving aside the question of whether there is indeed a worldwide transgender movement and, if so, whether its beliefs are monolithic, the implications of the above statement are clear: The authors believed that Blanchard’s ideas were politically unacceptable, regardless of their scientifi c validity.In addition to the empirical investigations of autogynephilia conducted by Blanchard and other researchers, there have been a few reviews, popular accounts, and critiques of the concept of autogynephilia, its meaning and signi fi cance, and the MtF transsexual typology and theory of motivation associated with it. In one review article, Blanchard ( 2005 ) summarized the early history of the concept of autogynephilia.I authored four reviews devoted entirely to autogynephilia (Lawrence, 2004, 2007,2009b, 2011a ) and a review of erotic target location errors that contained extensivediscussions of transvestic and anatomic autogynephilia (Lawrence, 2009a ) .In my review of erotic target location errors (Lawrence, 2009a ) , I summarized data on the prevalence of autogynephilia. In a national probability survey, 2.8% of Swedish men reported at least one episode of sexual arousal associated with crossdressing (Långström & Zucker, 2005 ) . Other studies have found prevalence rates between 1% and 18% for sexual arousal with cross-dressing or cross-gender fantasy; all of these studies have methodological limitations, but collectively they suggest that perhaps 2–3% of men have engaged in erotic cross-dressing at times and even more have occasionally experienced erotic arousal in association with cross-gender fantasies. However, clinically signi fi cant autogynephilic arousal, manifesting as frequent cross-dressing or habitual cross-gender fantasy during sexual activity, is probably much less prevalent. This more intense form of autogynephilia probably affects fewer than 1% of men and perhaps fewer than 0.1%. Autogynephilia that is suf fi ciently intense to cause severe gender dysphoria and the persistent desire for sex reassignment—autogynephilic transsexualism—is evidently rarer still.Only a few studies have produced reliable prevalence estimates for MtF transsexualism and severe gender dysphoria in Western countries. In Scotland, the reported prevalence of severe gender dysphoria in men is about 1 in 7,400 (0.014%; Wilson, Sharp & Carr, 1999 ) . In Belgium, about 1 in 12,900 (0.0078%) adult men has undergone MtF SRS (De Cuypere et al., 2007 ) ; in the Netherlands, the fi gure is about 1 in 11,900 (0.0084%; Bakker, van Kesteren, Gooren, & Bezemer, 1993 ) . In New Zealand, the reported prevalence of MtF transsexualism based on passport data is about 1 in 3,600 (0.028%; Veale, 2008 ) . Roughly one half to two thirds of the MtFtranssexuals and gender dysphoric men in these countries would be expected to benonhomosexual and presumably autogynephilic (see Lawrence, 2010c ) .In my recent reviews devoted to autogynephilia (Lawrence, 2007, 2009b, 2011a ) ,I emphasized that autogynephilia is not merely an erotic phenomenon but also involves the same feelings of idealization and attachment that characterize romantic love. Extending Blanchard’s ( 1989a, 1993a ) idea that autogynephilia is a sexual orientation as well as a paraphilia, I explained:Sexual orientations are characterized by feelings of idealization and attachment in addition to feelings of erotic desire. For example, gynephilic men do not merely lust for women: They also—at least most of the time—idealize them, fall in love with them, derive feelings of comfort and security from them, and seek to establish enduring bonds with them.Autogynephilia is much the same: Like other sexual orientations, autogynephilia potentially involves all the feelings and behaviors we associate with the word love , broadly construed.Autogynephilic MtF transsexuals are erotically aroused by imagining themselves as female, but they also idealize the thought of being female, experience feelings of comfort and security from their autogynephilic fantasies and behaviors, and usually want to bond permanently with their idealized feminine self-images by completely embodying and enacting them (i.e., by undergoing hormone therapy and sex reassignment surgery). (Lawrence,2011a , pp. 140–141)To put this conclusion more succinctly: Autogynephilic MtF transsexuals are menwho love women and want to become what they love (Lawrence, 2007 ) .The best known popular account of autogynephilia and the MtF transsexual typology associated with it appeared in the book The Man Who Would Be Queen (Bailey, 2003 ) . The book and its author incurred the wrath of some transgender activists and their allies, who took issue with the opinions and attitudes expressed in the book (Dreger, 2008 ; Lawrence, 2008 ) . I authored two reviews of autogynephilia(Lawrence, 1998, 2000 ) that were intended for nonprofessional audiences but were structured as academic articles (e.g., they contained in-text literature citations).Finally, two critiques of autogynephilia have recently been published in second-line academic journals (Moser, 2010 ; Serano, 2010 ) .Case Histories of Autogynephilic Transsexualism Are Rare Although Blanchard’s theory that “nonhomosexual MtF transsexualism equals autogynephilic transsexualism” was groundbreaking, and the MtF transsexual typology derived from it and implicit theory of transsexual motivation associated with it had obvious clinical implications, Blanchard’s formulation was not immediately in fl uential, and some clinicians still do not accept it. His theory contradicted the conventional wisdom that transsexualism is unrelated to erotic desire and is exclusively about the desire to live in the opposite gender role, and this may be partly responsible for the theory’s limited in fl uence and acceptance. But probably Blanchard’s theory also simply seemed too theoretical to many clinicians. It is important to remember that, with only two exceptions (i.e., Blanchard, Clemmensen,et al., 1985 ; Blanchard et al., 1986 ) , the theory of autogynephilia and the concepts associated with it were developed and validated almost exclusively from survey data that were routinely collected in the institution where Blanchard worked. Although Blanchard’s clinical experience undoubtedly informed his theories, his articles about autogynephilia included few case histories or clinical vignettes to illustrate his ideas. The only notable case history was that of Philip, the anatomic autogynephile who did not cross-dress, which appeared in two early articles and a later one(Blanchard, 1991, 1993b, 2005 ) . There were also a few brief descriptions of ana-tomic and behavioral autogynephilic fantasies (e.g., Blanchard, 1993c ) . One article (Blanchard) included four case histories of men with partial autogynephilia, but none of these men was transsexual by usual de fi nitions (i.e., none wanted to undergoSRS). Blanchard also wrote a book chapter (Blanchard, 1990 ) that contained three detailed case histories illustrating heterosexual, analloerotic, and bisexual MtFCase Histories of Autogynephilic Transsexualism Are Rare transsexualism; although he cited two of his own articles in which he had used theterm autogynephilia (Blanchard, 1989a, 1989b ) , none of the case histories were presented as instances of autogynephilic transsexualism, nor did the word autogynephilia appear anywhere in the chapter.Only a few subsequent case histories of autogynephilic transsexualism have appeared in the professional literature. Ekins and King ( 2001 ) presented the case of Janice, a nonhomosexual MtF transsexual who was aware of Blanchard’s theory and who identi fi ed as autogynephilic. Janice experienced sexual arousal in association with cross-dressing long before puberty and was gender dysphoric from an early age, but her autogynephilic feelings led her to doubt that she was genuinely transsexual. She used feminization fantasies to facilitate coitus with her wife. She eventually underwent SRS at age 41 and continued to experience autogynephilic arousal thereafter; her fantasies involving anatomic autogynephilia are set forth in detail. I described a 38-year-old nonhomosexual MtF transsexual patient who identi fi ed with the concept of autogynephilia and reported a strong interest in hav-ing sex with men (Lawrence, 2004 ) . The patient acknowledged that her interest did not represent genuine androphilia but merely re fl ected “the way in which being with a man sexually made her feel like a desirable woman” (p. 80).Barrett ( 2007 ) presented three brief case histories of men with gender identity concerns and supposed autogynephilia. Barrett, however, considered autogynephilia to be one of the differential diagnoses in MtF transsexualism—that is, one of several “non-transsexual disorders of gender identity” (p. 35) that clinicians needed to differentiate from genuine transsexualism. Perhaps for that reason, none of Barrett’s case histories of autogynephilia involved men who intensely desired to undergo sex reassignment and live as women. The fi rst of these histories (SM) was presented as one “in which the autogynaephillic [sic] drive is rather clear” (p. 35), but Barrett never described any of the patient’s autogynephilic fantasies, so the basis for this judgment seemed anything but clear. Barrett’s other two cases (DWand DM; pp. 36–37) included cursory descriptions of the patients’ histories of sexual arousal with cross-dressing, but what Barrett really emphasized was that these patients wanted to have female anatomic features but did not want to live in an unequivocally feminine gender role. Barrett seemed to believe that the hallmark of autogynephilia was the desire for physical feminization accompanied by “a fundamentally unchanged life, in a male gender role” (p. 36)—in short, pure anatomic autogynephilia that was unaccompanied by any significant cross-genderidenti fi cation. Men who expressed an unequivocal wish to live as women seemingly did not qualify as autogynephilic in Barrett’s view, even if they had extensive histories of sexual arousal in association with cross-dressing. Barrett recognized the existence of “heterosexual male secondary transsexuals” (p. 22) with such histories, but his descriptions of them did not mention anything resembling anatomic autogynephilia; perhaps for this reason, Barrett did not characterize nonhomosexual secondary MtF transsexuals as autogynephilic, even when they described evident transvestic autogynephilia.Finally, there is an unusual case history of “autogynophillia” [sic] in a 44-year-old man who displayed transvestic fetishism and expressed a desire for SRS(Duisin, Barisić, & Nikolić-Balkoski, 2009 ) . Unfortunately, the authors did not describe the patient’s autogynephilic fantasies and behaviors in much detail, limiting the value of this report.Although “the study of autogynephilia is, more than anything, the study of whatpeople say about their experiences” (Blanchard, 2005 , p. 439), hardly any MtFtranssexuals themselves have said much about their experiences of autogynephilia, at least until quite recently. As of the mid-1990s, only a few fi rst-person narratives by MtF transsexuals contained descriptions of sexual arousal in association with cross-dressing or the thought or image of having a female body, and none that I am aware of actually used the term autogynephilia. Works of erotic fi ction could be seen as exceptions to this pattern: Erotic stories containing explicitly autogynephilic themes and written as fi rst-person narratives are not uncommon, especially on the Internet. But these erotic stories do not purport to be genuinely autobiographical; indeed, many are highly implausible. They can be easily dismissed as fabrications that are designed to satisfy the prurient interests of fetishistic transvestites but are of no signi fi cance to “real” MtF transsexuals.Perhaps the scarcity of fi rst-person descriptions of autogynephilia by MtF transsexuals re fl ects the belief that experiencing sexual arousal in association with crossdressing or cross-gender fantasy disquali fi es one from being genuinely transsexual.Whatever the explanation, it is almost impossible tofind an autobiographicalaccount in which a MtF transsexual explicitly states, “Yes, I was sexually aroused by the idea of having a woman’s body, and this was part of the reason that I sought SRS.” Thus,first-person descriptions of autogynephilia—especially anatomicautogynephilia—by MtF transsexuals appear to constitute “missing discourses” (cf.Fine, 1988 ) or “forbidden narratives” (cf. Church, 1995 ) .This narrative vacuum leaves severely gender dysphoric men who experience autogynephilia without viable MtF transsexual role models. The autobiography of Christine Jorgensen ( 1967 ) was a beacon of hope for many MtF transsexuals because it was a story with which they could identify. But gender dysphoric men who experience autogynephilia, especially anatomic autogynephilia, do not yet have a Christine Jorgensen with whose story they can identify. At present, they have only a few autobiographical shards that seem at all relevant to their circumstances. Let us brie fl y consider what these consist of.Hunt ( ), a nonhomosexual MtF transsexual who had undergone SRS,authored an autobiography in which she explicitly described autogynephilic arousal and its close resemblance to heterosexual desire:I was feverishly interested in [girls]. I studied their hair, their clothes, their fi gures. And I brooded about the increasing differences between us. I seethed with envy while at the same time becoming sexually aroused—I wanted to possess them even as I wanted to become them. In my nighttime fantasies, as I masturbated or fl oated towards sleep, I combined the two compulsions, dreaming of sex but with myself as the girl. (p. 60)In an autobiographical essay, Bornstein ( 1995 ) , a nonhomosexual MtFtranssexual who had undergone SRS, repeatedly quoted from erotica written for heterosexual cross-dressers and con fi ded that “I never stopped reading those porno books. I still have a small collection of them.” (p. 232). Bornstein also observed that, 7 years after undergoing SRS, she continued to be aroused by the image of herself as a female:It’s been 7 years, and y’know what? I still get a thrill when I look at myself in the mirror and I see girl not boy. (p. 238)In a detailed account of her SRS experience, Griggs ( 1998 ) , another MtF transsexual, discussed her lifelong analloeroticism and obligatory reliance on fantasies of being female to achieve orgasm during masturbation. Based on a subsequentautobiographical work (Griggs,), in which she described one long-termnonsexual relationship with a man and two long-term relationships with women, Griggs’ sexual orientation appeared to be nonhomosexual. She wrote:When I lived as a man, I had no desire to have intercourse with a woman. I likewise had no inclination for a homosexual relationship with a man. Erotic imagery was invariably contingent on my being female, and even during masturbation, whether the object of my desire was man or woman, I could not reach a climax without imagining that I was female. This is still true. When confronted as a teenager by the reality that I was male, my private experience of sexuality was void, and the resulting appetite, or speci fi cally the lack of it, was vaguely questioned by friends, family, and the women I dated. (Griggs, 1998 , p. 50) Griggs did not state, however, that the “object of her desire” during masturbation was her image of herself as a female. Rather, the supposed object of her desire was another “man or woman,” despite her report of having felt no desire for either men or women earlier in her life. Thus, her description of what could be interpreted as anatomic autogynephilia is equivocal.McCloskey ( 1999 ) , a MtF transsexual whose history is consistent with a nonhomosexual orientation—she was not effeminate in childhood, married a woman and fathered two children, and underwent SRS at age 53—authored an autobiography in which she described her lengthy history of cross-gender fetishism. Prior to gender transition, she had identi fi ed as “just a heterosexual cross-dresser” (p. 48), “just a guy who gets off dressing occasionally as a woman” (p. 50). Until about a year before she underwent SRS in 1996, her cross-dressing had routinely been associated with sexual arousal and, presumably, masturbation:Until the spring of 1995, each of the fi ve thousand episodes [of cross-dressing] was associated with quick male sex. (p. 16)McCloskey also offered a third-person description of her preferred erotic materials, which included images of feminized men whose male genitalia were not visible.She implied that this preference re fl ected her erotic fantasy of undergoing “complete” (i.e., genital) sex reassignment:His preoccupation with gender crossing showed up in the pornographic magazines he used.There are two kinds of crossdressing magazines, those that portray men in dresses with private parts showing and those that portray them hidden. He could never get aroused by the ones with private parts showing. His fantasy was of complete transformation. (p. 19)This impressive candor notwithstanding, McCloskey subsequently stated that she rejected Blanchard’s ideas about autogynephilia (“it’s a mistaken theory, with no scienti fi c basis”; McCloskey, 2008 , p. 467) and claimed that the concept of autogynephilia was inapplicable to her (e.g., she described herself as “exhibiting no‘autogynephilia’”; McCloskey, 2003 , para. 26).Zander ( 2003 ) , a nonhomosexual MtF transsexual—she identi fi ed as lesbian before and after undergoing SRS—discussed her simultaneous feelings of lust and envy toward attractive women in a collection of autobiographical essays. She described experiencinga slightly schizophrenic feeling whenever I met an attractive girl. The spontaneous male re fl ex (don’t tell me it’s not biological!) “If I could only have sex with her!,” instantaneously followed by “and have such a body!”. I used to call this my “Have her and be her”fantasy, and for decades it dominated my response to attractive women. (p. 104) There are also a few examples of narratives by nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals in which erotic arousal associated with cross-dressing is described but is deemphasized or implied to be of little signi fi cance. Richards (Richards & Ames, 1983 ) , a nonhomosexual MtF transsexual—she was not effeminate during childhood, married a woman, and fathered a child—described unequivocal erotic arousal associated with cross-dressing between the ages of 6 and 13 (she did not specify her exact age) in her autobiography. She denied, however, that she masturbated while crossdressed or even that her erotic arousal was related to cross-gender ideation: My forays into my sister’s wardrobe were happening with greater frequency. It would be natural to think that this cross-dressing must have been associated with some sexual activity. In fact it was not. I would sometimes get an erection as I pulled on some silky under-thing, but this was pretty much a response to the soft touch of the fabric. It was not associated with the transformation to a girl. The same thing might happen as I dried myself with a soft towel after a bath. It is peculiar indeed that I could control the desire to masturbate but not the desire to dress in my sister’s clothes. I did have wet dreams; so the mechanism was in perfectly good shape. (p. 27)Cummings ( ), another nonhomosexual MtF transsexual—she was noteffeminate as a child, was unambiguously sexually attracted to women, and identi fi ed as a heterosexual transvestite for many years—likewise described sexual arousal, erection, and ejaculation in association with cross-dressing. However, she seemed to downplay the signi fi cance of these occurrences and portrayed herself as an unwilling victim of her own erotic re fl exes:Was there a sexual component to this dressing up? Yes and no. I was ambushed by orgasm in a way I found quite antipathetic. Because my routine involved dressing up and standing in front of the mirror while I admired my feminised re fl ection, I wanted the image to be as female as possible and would, as most transvestites learn to do, pull my genitals back and clamp them between my thighs. Adolescence combined with friction tended to create an erection, quite the reverse of what I wanted and this in turn often resulted in orgasm and ejaculation. Contrary to what one might imagine, this ruined my enjoyment. Of course the moment of orgasm was pleasurable but it was only a moment and the consequent ejaculation called an immediate halt to my activity, partly because I had to prevent any semen from soiling my sister’s clothes and partly because I disliked intensely the presence of the sticky fl uid on my body. I would hastily undress and wash myself. (p. 11)The narratives by autogynephilic transsexuals that I will introduce in the next chapter were collected with the intention of addressing the scarcity of accounts by MtF transsexuals of their autogynephilic feelings and desires. My goal was to make an anthology of these missing discourses and forbidden narratives available to anyone who might fi nd such accounts valuable: in particular, clinicians seeking to better understand their nonhomosexual MtF transsexual clients and nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals seeking to better understand themselves.The decision to solicit and publish narratives by autogynephilic transsexuals arose from my observation that personal accounts by transsexuals who acknowledged autogynephilic arousal were scarce and my conviction that they needed to be collected and made available to clinicians and other autogynephilic transsexuals. I had searched almost in vain for personal narratives written by MtF transsexuals who acknowledged that autogynephilia had played an important role in their lives.I believed that such narratives needed to be available to professionals, to provide concrete illustrations of the phenomena Blanchard described, and to autogynephilic men who were struggling with gender dysphoria, to reassure them that they were not alone, not crazy, and not ineligible for sex reassignment.My decision to collect and publish these narratives was also informed by my own history of gender dysphoria and autogynephilic erotic arousal. Beginning in early childhood, I experienced both the wish to be female and erotic arousal in association with cross-dressing and cross-gender fantasy. These feelings intensi fi ed in adolescence and continued throughout my adult life. For many years, I imagined I might be unique in both wanting to be female and being erotically aroused by the fantasy of being female. Although my experience of erotic arousal in association with cross-dressing was suggestive of fetishistic transvestism, I didn’t believe that I was simply a transvestite, because I also felt an intense desire to have SRS. That desire led me to suspect that I might be some type of transsexual. But the consensus in the medical literature was that erotic arousal in association with cross-dressing or cross-gender fantasyexcluded the diagnosis of transsexualism (see Blanchard & Clemmensen, 1988 ) and was a contraindication to SRS (e.g., Dolan, 1987 ; Lundström, Pauly, & Wålinder,1984 ; Person & Ovesey, 1974b ) .When I read Blanchard’s writings on autogynephilia in 1994, I discovered a theory that seemed to apply to me. Blanchard’s concept of autogynephilic transsexualism was consistent with my feelings and history and reassured me that there were others like myself. I later wrote:When I fi rst read [Blanchard’s work] in 1994, I experienced a kind of epiphany. Certainly it spoke to my own experience like nothing I had ever encountered before. It was enlightening and empowering to discover that someone thought feelings of sexual arousal to the idea of having a woman’s body were consistent with genuine transsexualism—and that they pro-vided a logical rationale for seeking sex reassignment. (Lawrence, 1999a )This discovery still left me feeling isolated, however, because I was unable to locate other clinicians or researchers who accepted Blanchard’s ideas and could independently con fi rm their validity:As I discussed Blanchard’s theory with colleagues, I discovered two surprising things. First, his theory was not widely known. Second, many of those who did know about it thought it was not so much wrong as heretical. The intensity of their reactions was astonishing. It was as though thinking about transsexualism as a sexual problem involved such a paradigm shiftthat it frightened people. (Lawrence, 1999a )I was also unable to fi nd any detailed histories of persons like myself, either in the form of case reports or personal narratives.After I underwent SRS in 1996, I began to think of myself as a transsexual activist.I created a website, Transsexual Women’s Resources (now Dr. Anne Lawrence on Transsexualism and Sexuality ; http://www.annelawrence.com ) to provide information to other MtF transsexuals. The site became popular, and I decided to use it to solicit narratives by MtF transsexuals who also experienced autogynephilia. My decision to undertake the project was in fl uenced by the ideas of feminist theologian Carol Christ ( 1980 ) , who emphasized the importance of personal narratives in the lives of natal women:Women’s stories have not been told. And without stories there is no articulation of experience. Without stories a woman is lost when she comes to make the important decisions of her life. Without stories she cannot understand herself. (p. 1)I felt that Christ’s ideas might also be relevant to gender dysphoric males whose experiences were like mine: A collection of fi rst-person narratives by MtF transsexuals who experienced autogynephilia might help other gender dysphoric males with similar histories make the important decisions of their lives.From October 1998 through October 2011, I collected hundreds of narratives written by autogynephilic transsexuals by means of a solicitation posted on the Transsexual Women’s Resources website. The exact language of the solicitation varied slightly over the years, but this version from 2005 is representative:Seeking Personal Histories of Sexual Arousal Associated with Sex Reassignment I am still seeking narratives concerning sexual feelings and fantasies associated with or centered on the sex reassignment experience. If you identify as transsexual and are willing to share your experiences concerning this topic, please read on. I would particularly like to hear from persons who have either been approved for sex reassignment surgery or are postoperative.Some transsexual women report that the process of becoming feminized, either in reality or in fantasy, has been or still is sexually arousing. This phenomenon—sexual excitement at the thought or image of oneself as a woman—is called autogynephilia . Have you experienced feelings like this?Transsexual women have sometimes described sexual arousal in connection with doing or fantasizing the following:• Wearing women’s clothing.• Having or acquiring a woman’s body, or aspects such as breasts or a vagina.• Feminizing one’s body by applying cosmetics, shaving one’s legs, etc.• Imagining being pregnant, breast-feeding, or menstruating;• Engaging in typically feminine activities.• Being among women where men are not present.Have thoughts or experiences like these been sexually arousing for you in the past? Have they continued to be arousing after transition or postoperatively? Did sexual desire play any part in your decision to transition? Was the desire to live out fantasies like these part of your reason for transitioning? Did you ever think that you couldn’t “really” be transsexual because you had such fantasies? Have you told others (friends, lovers, therapists) about your feelings? What was the outcome? How have your feelings affected your sex life—either during solo sex or with partners? How have your feelings affected your relationships with other people?If you are willing to share your experience—anonymously—here’s how: Simply write (or paste) your narrative into the space below and click the “submit” button. The form will accommodate up to about 2,000 words. This method is completely anonymous—your name and email address WILL NOT be transmitted to me unless you manually enter them somewhere in the space below. Whatever you submit is sent to me automatically by my Internet Service Provider—and its name, not yours, appears in the “From” line of the message I receive.I may include excerpts from the narratives I receive in published articles or presentations.While you are welcome to include your name or other identifying information if you wish, I will remove or change any such information before publication. Feel free to be as sexually explicit as you wish. If you have either been approved for sex reassignment surgery or are postoperative, please include this information in your statement.Please note that I am not requesting statements from persons who have never had such feelings or who object to the idea that other people might have them: The world has plenty of such statements already.As described above, the solicitation was followed by a text box into which informants could write or paste their narratives. Clicking a “submit” button transmitted the contents of the text box to me anonymously, via a cgi-email script. Roughly one third of informants, however, chose to bypass this method of anonymous transmission and emailed narrative material to me directly, usually because they regarded the anonymous method as too limiting or simply unnecessary. The option of email-ing narratives to me directly was explicitly mentioned in later versions of the solicitation. Over the 13-year collection period, I received about 470 narratives addressing or purporting to address the topic of autogynephilia.In addition to the brief description of autogynephilia provided in the solicitation, informants also had access to one or more essays on my website that explained autogynephilia in greater detail. Originally, the essay was “Men trapped in men’s bodies: An introduction to the concept of autogynephilia” (Lawrence, 1998 ) . This was replaced in 2000 by “Sexuality and transsexuality: A new introduction to autog-ynephilia” (Lawrence, 2000 ) and in 2004 by “Autogynephilia: A paraphilic modelof gender identity disorder” (Lawrence, 2004 ) . The last essay was supplemented in 2007 by “Becoming what we love: Autogynephilic transsexualism conceptualizedas an expression of romantic love” (Lawrence, 2007 ) . Several informants referenced one or more of these essays in their narratives.In the fi nal paragraph of the solicitation, I sought to make it clear that I only wanted to hear from MtF transsexuals who had personally experienced autogynephilia, not from anyone who had an opinion on the topic. Some opponents of Blanchard’s theory have criticized that paragraph. For example, after I posted on the Internet a few of theearliest narratives I had received (Lawrence, 1999c, 1999d ) , Barnes ( 2001 ) objected that “all she [Lawrence] really did was solicit responses from those sympathetic withher theory” (p. 24). Roughgarden ( 2004 ) similarly alleged that “the narratives that Lawrence posted are the ones most likely to be supportive. Lawrence discourages counternarratives” (p. 272). Such criticisms are both misplaced and inaccurate.My stated intention was to collect narratives from MtF transsexuals who had personally experienced autogynephilia, in order to learn what they had to say about it. It would seem self-evident that MtF transsexuals who had not experienced autogynephilia would be unable to provide relevant narratives. If my intention had been different—for example, to conduct a survey of MtF transsexuals’ opinions about Blanchard’s transsexual typology—then soliciting narratives from persons who had not experienced autogynephilia would have been appropriate. But I was not conducting such a survey. Because Blanchard’s MtF transsexual typology is controversial, however, some of its opponents seem to believe that every discussion of autogynephilia must include a debate about that typology—a debate in which they are entitled to participate. I disagree.Moreover, not every MtF transsexual informant who experienced autogynephilia and submitted a narrative agreed with everything Blanchard theorized. Some informants disagreed with Blanchard (and me) about the meaning and signi fi cance of autogynephilia; others challenged Blanchard’s transsexual typology or his implicit theory of transsexual motivation. I neither discouraged nor suppressed such dissentingopinions by autogynephilic informants; they are presented in detail in Chap. 10 and occasionally in other chapters as well.Editing and analysis of the narratives was a multistep process. First, I eliminated any messages that did not describe the informant’s personal experience of autogynephilia. I received a few dozen such messages, most of which either condemned the concept of autogynephilia or disagreed with all or part of the associated theory.I also eliminated a handful of narratives—fewer than a dozen—that I believed werefabrications; I will describe these and the reasons I considered them fabrications later in this chapter. From the remaining narratives, I grouped together those that appeared to have been submitted by the same informant. Most informants sent only one narrative, but some sent two or more, up to a maximum of six. There may have been a few instances in which a single individual submitted more than one narrative and I was unable to recognize this. This process resulted in a collection of one or more narrative submissions from 301 different informants.Although I had solicited narratives only from persons who identi fi ed as transsexual, I received several narratives from autogynephilic persons who either denied being transsexual or who did not appear to be transsexual according to usual de fi nitions. I had wanted to emphasize narratives written by informants who were recognizably transsexual, because such narratives were scarce. Moreover, narratives by informants who were not recognizably transsexual could too easily be dismissed as not truly relevant to understanding the phenomenon of autogynephilic transsexualism. Consequently, I divided the 301 autogynephilic informants into those whom I could classify with some con fi dence as transsexual and those whom I was unable to classify as transsexual or who appeared to be nontranssexual.Deciding which informants quali fi ed as transsexual and which did not required some subjective judgments. A few informants did not provide enough unambiguous information about gender dysphoria, cross-gender identification, cross-genderexpression, formal diagnoses, or treatment history to permit de fi nitive classi fi cation.In general, I considered informants to be transsexual if they expressed the wish to have a female body or to live and be recognized as a woman. More speci fi cally, I considered informants to be transsexual if they (a) identi fi ed themselves as such or described the severe gender dysphoria (discomfort with anatomic sex or gender role) or pronounced cross-gender identity (desire to be female, live as a woman, or undergo SRS) that are typical of MtF transsexualism; (b) stated that they were using hormones to feminize their bodies (with one exception noted below), were living full-time in female role, or had been approved for SRS (implying both of the former), or (c) stated that they had completed SRS.Some informants were especially dif fi cult to classify. The largest subgroup of these consisted of individuals who experienced the most prevalent form of partial autogynephilia (Blanchard, 1993b ) : the desire to have female breasts, and often other female anatomic features as well, but without any strong desire to have female genitalia or undergo SRS. Some of these individuals reported that they were using low doses of feminizing hormones to develop breasts or were considering living full-time as women, factors that further complicated the decision process. For the sake of consistency, I eventually decided to classify informants who described partial autogynephilia and did not desire to have female genitalia or undergo SRS as nontranssexual, even if they reported that they were using feminizing hormones. Narratives fromseveral informants who conformed to this description are included in Chap. 11 .Even more dif fi cult to classify were a few informants who expressed a wish to have female genitalia—or who had in some cases undergone SRS to acquire female-appearing genitalia—but who claimed they had no desire to live in a traditional female role or had concluded that it was not feasible to do so. Some of these individuals stated that they only wanted female genitalia, others that they wanted femalegenitalia and breasts but nothing more, and still others that they wanted complete physical feminization. All, however, either claimed they wanted to live as men or stated that living in a male gender role seemed like the best option available to them.Attempting to classify these individuals begs the question: What is the essential feature of MtF transsexualism? Is it the desire to live as a woman? The desire to have something resembling a female body? If the latter, is the desire to have female-appearing genitalia enough? There are no universally satisfactory answers to these questions. I eventually decided to classify any informant who expressed an unequivocal desire to have female genitalia as transsexual. This was partly for the sake of consistency, but it also re fl ected my clinical experience with a few patients who had told me they wanted SRS but had no desire to live as women: In every case, it eventually became clear that these clients actually did want to live as women (albeit sometimes as rather androgynous women) but had simply concluded that this was unfeasible and had therefore put the idea out of their minds. I suspect (but obviously cannot prove) that many, if not most, autogynephilic men who claim to want only female genitalia actually want both fully feminized bodies and a female-typical social role but cannot bring themselves to admit this. Narratives from several infor-mants in the group described above are included in Chap. 6 .A total of 249 informants met one or more of the inclusion criteria that permitted me to classify them as transsexual: 130 met criterion (a), 91 met criterion (b), and 28 met criterion (c). The Appendix summarizes the highest inclusion criterion satis fi ed by each informant whom I categorized as transsexual and the speci fi c element(s) in the informant’s narrative that led me to conclude that the inclusion criterion had been satis fi ed. I will subsequently refer to these informants as the“autogynephilic transsexual informants” or “transsexual informants”; this denotes only that they reported having experienced autogynephilic arousal, not necessarily that they considered this arousal to have the same meaning or signi fi cance that Blanchard theorized.There were also 52 narratives by informants who did not meet any of these inclusion criteria, but who nevertheless described autogynephilic feelings; some of these informants were probably transsexual but simply did not provide enough information for me to con fi dently classify them as such. I felt that many of the narratives by these informants contained information that might contribute to a better understanding of autogynephilic transsexualism; consequently, I decided to devote a separate chapter,Chap. 11 , to their accounts. I will subsequently refer to these informants as the “nontranssexual autogynephilic informants” or the “nontranssexual autogynephiles.”The inclusion criteria I used admittedly leave the study open to criticism that some of the informants I categorized as transsexual might not have been “genuinely”transsexual according to more stringent criteria. Most of the informants I considered transsexual would presumably meet criteria for a diagnosis of transsexualism in the International Classi fi cation of Diseases (ICD-10; WHO, 1992 ) , which requires only the presence of cross-gender identity, usually accompanied by gender dysphoria. But critics could argue that some of my transsexual informants might not have experienced severe enough gender dysphoria or a suf fi ciently persistent cross-gender identity to satisfy the de fi nition of transsexualism in the most recent edition of the DSM(APA, 2000 , p. 828). Indeed, a few informants who experienced signi fi cant gender dysphoria or cross-gender identity chose not to refer to themselves as “transsexual,”but used alternative terms, such as “transgendered,” to describe themselves. It is important to remember, however, that the symptoms classically associated with transsexualism—gender dysphoria, cross-gender identity, anatomic dysphoria, belief that one’s feelings resemble those of the opposite sex, desire to live as a member of the opposite sex, and wish for hormonal and surgical sex reassignment—are highlycorrelated (Deogracias et al., 2007 ; Singh et al., 2010 ) . Moreover, autogynephilic transsexualism and less severe autogynephilic conditions (e.g., fetishistic transvestism) are more usefully conceptualized as points on a continuum of symptomatologythan as distinct disorders (Benjamin, 1966 ; Docter, 1988 ; Lawrence, 2009a, 2009b ;Levine, 1993 ; Person & Ovesey, 1978 ; Whitam, 1987 ) . Consequently, attempting to draw a de fi nitive line between autogynephilic transsexualism and closely related conditions is probably neither feasible nor crucially important.I next edited the narratives by the 249 transsexual informants and the 52 nontranssexual informants in the interests of insuring anonymity and improving read-ability. I redacted any information that might identify the informants and removed material that was peripheral to the topic of autogynephilia (e.g., detailed accounts of family history or educational achievements). I also performed some basic copyediting: correcting misspellings, inserting missing words, expanding abbreviations, reordering some sentences and paragraphs to improve clarity, and condensing exces-sively prolix passages. The resulting document contained about 128,000 words.Finally, I conducted a thematic analysis of the narratives. I created a new thematic category for each major theme I identi fi ed and placed narrative excerpts per-taining to that theme in the corresponding category. Some of the themes were essentially predetermined and represented fundamental elements or concepts in the theory of autogynephilia (e.g., anatomic autogynephilia); other themes arose directly from the content of the narratives. Whenever I identi fi ed a new theme, I reexamined previously analyzed narratives for possible instances of the theme, extracted any relevant narrative excerpts, and placed them in the appropriate category. This process ultimately yielded 30 distinct thematic categories that together contained about 75,000 words of narrative excerpts. All of the narratives by transsexual informants yielded useful excerpts; about two thirds of the narratives by nontranssexual informants did as well. Sometimes I further edited the narrative excerpts for length when I incorporated them into the text of the chapters.The methodology I employed was similar in many ways to the constantcomparative method used in the grounded theory approach to qualitative analysis(Glaser & Strauss, 1967 ; Strauss & Corbin, 1998 ) . This study was not, however, a grounded theory analysis, because my intention was not to generate a new theoretical model of autogynephilia. A serviceable theory of autogynephilia already existed, and all the informants were aware of it, as evidenced by their decisions to submit narratives. Instead, the intention of this study was primarily descriptive: I wanted to document the feelings and opinions of MtF transsexuals who had experienced autogynephilic arousal, including what they had to say about the role autogynephilia had played in their lives.How con fi dent am I that the transsexual and nontranssexual informants represented themselves accurately and reported their feelings and experiences truthfully? For most informants, I cannot claim great con fi dence, although there were a few cases in which I either knew an informant casually or had some corroborating historical information. Concerns about truthfulness and accuracy are potential issues whenever personal narratives are used as data sources, but are especially pertinent in studies like this one, in which the absence of face-to-face contact with informants precludes the use of nonverbal information to assess probable truthfulness.Several clinicians who have worked extensively with MtF transsexuals have reported that their clients tend to consciously or unconsciously distort their histories to conform to the picture of “classic” MtF transsexualism. A classic MtF transsexual is one “who has felt and acted feminine from earliest childhood, has never been sexually aroused by women’s apparel, and is romantically inclined toward males”(Blanchard, Clemmensen, et al., 1985 , p. 508). For example, Lukianowicz ( 1959 ) stated that male gender patients often gave inaccurate reports of the early onset of cross-gender wishes:A wishful falsi fi cation of memory takes place, the patients begin to recall and misinterpret various insignificant incidents in their childhood, till theyfinallyfirmly believe that“ever since I can remember, I always wanted to be a woman.” (The incessant progress of these emotionally overvalued ideas resembles the relentless development of delusions in paranoia.) (p. 51)Bancroft ( 1972 ) argued that one challenge to understanding the developmental history of MtF transsexualism was thattransexuals [sic] distort their past histories to fi t in to their transexual identity and are therefore more likely to report early transexual urges to support the idea that they are basically female… [One patient] when fi rst seen reported his transexual feelings to be of recent origin; 9 months later he was reporting them as starting much earlier in his life. (p. 62) Fisk ( 1974 ) observed that clients who sought SRS tended to misrepresent their histories—sometimes deliberately but more often unintentionally—to make them conform to accepted ideas about classic transsexualism:Slowly, there appeared instances in which the seemingly very pat histories revealed inconsistencies, downright fabrications and blatant distortions. The element of conscious fabrication or manipulation seemed quite secondary to the phenomenon of retrospectively “amending”one’s subjective history. Here, the patient quite subtly alters, shades, rationalizes, denies, represses, forgets, etc., in a compelling rush to embrace the diagnosis of transsexualism.(pp. 8–9)Fisk’s phrase “embrace the diagnosis of transsexualism” suggests that he saw these clients as attempting to convince themselves as well as others that the diagnosis was applicable to them. Sørensen and Hertoft ( 1980 ) similarly noted that MtF transsexuals typically displayed “memory distortion with exclusion of earlier masculine traits” (p. 139). Walworth ( 1997 ) reported that the fi ve most common topics aboutwhich MtF transsexuals admitted to having misled their therapists were “sexual arousal in response to women’s clothing[,] sexual attraction to women[,] preferring girls’ games and toys as a child[,] childhood wishes to have been born a girl[, and]identifying with female characters as a child” (p. 359). Taken together, these observations suggest that MtF transsexuals’ histories of childhood femininity, childhood cross-gender wishes, absence of erotic arousal with cross-dressing, and sexual attraction to men should not necessarily be taken at face value.On the other hand, MtF transsexuals’ histories that contradict the picture of classic transsexualism can be seen as a form of “reluctant testimony” and are likely to be more credible. In particular, self-reported histories of an absence of femininity or cross-gender wishes in childhood, a lack of sexual attraction to men, or the presence of erotic arousal with cross-dressing or cross-gender fantasy should arouse less suspicion, because there is little reason for informants to consciously or unconsciously misreport these things.I strongly suspected that one or two people who submitted narratives engaged in less-than-truthful reporting. For example, between February 1999 and November 2001, I received eight separate narratives that dealt with the issue of erotic arousal from the idea of feeling regret following sex reassignment (i.e., being a “man trapped in a woman’s body”). These narratives varied in some details (e.g., stated age, whether or not sex reassignment had been completed), but shared certain thematic similarities (e.g., emphasis on the inconvenience of obligatory seated urination), characteristic spelling errors, and unusual syntax. I concluded that these narratives were probably fabrications that had been submitted by a single individual and that described erotic fantasies, not genuine occurrences. Consequently, I decided to exclude these narratives. Even so, many of the thoughts and feelings expressed in them were not terribly different from those found in seemingly more plausible accounts.Some MtF transsexuals and other persons object to the theory associated with the concept of autogynephilia, and it is possible that a few of them might have attempted to discredit the study or cast doubt on the theory of autogynephilia by submitting false or misleading narratives. What sorts of narratives might advance these goals?A narrative that described bizarre but just barely plausible fantasies or behaviors and was accepted as genuine but subsequently revealed to be a fabrication might discredit the study in the eyes of some. It would be dif fi cult, however, for an individual to prove that he or she was actually the author of any particular narrative, much less that the contents of that narrative were indeed fabricated. In any case, with the exception of the “man trapped in a woman’s body” narratives described above, only one other narrative, which I will describe below, contained material of doubtful plausibility. Alternatively, a fabricated narrative that contradicted some general principle derived from or associated with the theory of autogynephilia, if accepted as genuine, might cast doubt on the theory in the eyes of some. A narrative that described both intense autogynephilic arousal and an exclusively homosexual orientation in a MtF transsexual would fall into this category. A narrative describing the absence of autogynephilic arousal in a nonhomosexual MtF transsexual,however, would neither cast much doubt on the theory nor be eligible for inclusion.As I noted in Chap. 1 , denial of autogynephilic arousal by nonhomosexual MtFtranssexuals is a recognized, reasonably well understood, and not especially interesting phenomenon. Moreover, I stated in my solicitation that I had no interest in receiving narratives from persons who had not experienced autogynephilia.I received only one narrative that was ostensibly from a MtF transsexual who reported both extensive autogynephilic arousal and an exclusively homosexual orientation. I decided to exclude this narrative, because I suspected it was a fabrication: Some of the history it recounted was internally contradictory, and it was submitted a few months after the publication of the controversial book The Man Who Would Be Queen (Bailey, 2003 ) and contained narrative detail that seemed to have been taken directly from two different case descriptions in that book.Some evidence for the accuracy and truthfulness of the narratives lies in the fact that, in general, they were remarkably consistent with each other, with existing information concerning autogynephilic fantasies and behaviors (e.g., from transgender erotica), with the clinical histories of the MtF transsexual patients I have seen in my practice, and with the theory of autogynephilia generally. The speci fi c detail and emotional frankness that characterized much of the writing conveyed a strong sense of verisimilitude; the informants frequently expressed amazement at their own candor, offering asides like “I can’t believe I’m telling you this” or “This sounds crazy, even to me, but it’s true.”In 1999, I published 59 of the narratives I had received to date in two separate docu-ments on my website (Lawrence, 1999c, 1999d ) . I included excerpts from these narratives in two papers I presented at the Harry Benjamin International Gender Dysphoria Association XVI Biennial Symposium in London in 1999; the texts ofthese papers were subsequently published on my website (Lawrence, 1999a, 1999b ) .Selected excerpts from the 59 narratives also appeared in the magazine Transgender Tapestry in connection with an article I published there (Lawrence, 2000 ) . Blanchard ( 2005 ) quoted excerpts from these 59 narratives as well. Because the current analysis employed more rigorous inclusion criteria than I had used in 1999, only 50 of the original 59 narratives were selected for inclusion in the current study.This section presents seven illustrative examples of narratives submitted by the transsexual informants who acknowledged autogynephilia. Most are presented more or less as I received them, with only minor copyediting; the exceptions arethe fourth and sixth examples, which were significantly edited for length.Collectively, they illustrate most of the major themes discussed by the informants.In this and subsequent chapters, three-digit numbers in parentheses following the narrative excerpts will be used to identify individual transsexual informants.The fi rst example is one of the narratives I fi rst published on my website in (Lawrence, 1999d ) :I am a 42-year-old male-to-female preoperative transsexual. I have been living full time as female for over a year, have completed a legal name change, and have been on hormone therapy for several years. I have just fi nished reading your article on autogynephilia and can honestly say that, for the fi rst time ever, I have the feeling “this is me!” Previously, when I’ve read the literature on transsexualism, I’ve thought that many, indeed most, of the descriptions applied to me. But there was always something just slightly different from the way I truly felt. It was because of these feelings that I have had doubts about whether I was“really” a transsexual.My sexual fantasies all include myself in female form, either being forced to become female or voluntarily. Frequently they involve a submissive element on my part: I am either forced to be a woman or forced to behave in a particularly submissive manner. If there was a male involved, it was usually a vague or faceless man with extremely strong and powerful physique. From my very earliest masturbatory experiences, I have exclusively used this type of “becoming female” fantasy for arousal.My childhood seemed rather typically male from an outside viewpoint. I can still vividly remember an early experience of becoming aroused at the thought of becoming female when I was approximately 9 or 10 years old. I was overweight and I had begun to develop breasts, solely from my weight. I would soap my breasts in the shower and imagine I was really a woman with a real woman’s breasts, and I would become extremely aroused.I lived fairly successfully as a man for most of my 39 years prior to seeking professional help. I was married for approximately 5 years in my early 30s. My sex life was satisfying to an extent, but I would always use feminization fantasies to achieve orgasm. I thought this was a fl aw in my nature, felt guilty because of it, and never discussed this with my wife.I always felt envious of my wife’s body and would invariably fantasize about being like her or trading places whenever we had sex. I also regularly fantasized about becoming any of a variety of beautiful women, such as popular actresses, models, or centerfolds.I did not engage in much cross-dressing at an early age. I did sneak occasionally into my mother’s room and try on a slip, panties, or a bra, but that was the extent of it. Once I graduated from college and was on my own, I began shaving my legs and would invariably achieve extreme states of arousal, culminating in masturbation. It wasn’t until I actually started therapy that I began appearing in public dressed as a female. In the early days, I would become aroused whenever anyone—a sales clerk, a casual stranger—would address me as “Ma’am” or perform some courtesy, such as holding a door for me. This arousal led to a heightened fear of discovery (i.e., that my erection would give me away). After hormone therapy, this became less of a problem and eventually stopped altogether. I thought perhaps it was the initial novelty of the situation that caused my arousal and that this novelty was wearing off as I became accustomed to presenting in the feminine role. But now I realize that I still get that jolt of erotic thrill at being viewed as female, but the hormone treatments have eliminated the erections that embarrassed me.I continue to feel aroused at the thought of feminization. The frequency of my masturbation has greatly decreased since starting hormone therapy, but I still use feminization fantasies during autoerotic activity. To date I have not told anyone else about this aspect of my transgendered nature. I have told my therapist about some of my fantasies but not about the erections when dressed. This is from fear of not being accepted as a true transsexual and being categorized instead as a transvestite or cross-dresser. I have a strong desire for SRSand do not want to jeopardize my chances by appearing in any way skewed from the“classic” transsexual pro fi le. (001)Most narratives were submitted by middle-aged males, but I received some from informants in their 20s. Here is an example:I’m a 28-year-old male who has experienced arousal from autogynephilia since the age of 12. I always thought I was weird, because I’ve never been effeminate. When I hit puberty, around age 12, I remember being aroused seeing girls growing boobs and also seeing my stepmother’s bras and panties in the laundry area. I remember being attracted to girls themselves but having extreme arousal over the thought of being a girl and growing boobies.I already fantasized about being a girl and having a vagina before the boob thing started. It’s hard to pinpoint when I realized I was highly aroused by this, but I believe it was when I saw some girls in my class at a play wearing leotards and tights or pantyhose at a school play. I wanted so bad to have a vagina and be free of my penis while being able to express myself in a way not accepted in a man’s world.Since then, I have been through the same thing over and over, hoping that I would somehow grow out of it. I’m an attractive guy; I’ve had sex with at least 20 women, but I have never had an orgasm with one of them. I came close once, when a girlfriend sucked and played with my nipples. I rarely cross-dress anymore, because I get so unbelievably aroused that I shake and tremble and ejaculate much too fast. This is not because of the clothes as much as the more realistic feeling of being an actual woman with female genitalia. I know that I don’t simply have a cross-dressing fetish, because my greatest sexual fantasy is going through puberty again as a girl and experiencing breast development, as well as being in pillow fi ghts and bubble-gum blowing contests with other girls. I’ve only tried makeup on once but got sexually aroused by it. Other things that have aroused me are shaving my legs, sitting with my legs crossed in a feminine way, blowing bubble gum bubbles (something I’ve always associated as being feminine), and sitting with a bunch of women as the only male and listening to “girl talk.”I’m probably more aroused than ever at the thought of being a woman. I’m getting ready to go on hormone therapy, because I’m at my wits’ end as a man. I can’t enjoy sex with women as a man—I’ve lost almost all interest. What I do enjoy with women is snuggling and getting close. As a woman, I could be free to enjoy sex again and be free to cry at a sad part of a movie and free to be chatty and get close with a mate. I have to admit that the thought of growing boobies while on hormone treatment is so arousing that it makes me shake and tremble, literally. This thought just blows me away, and the thought of getting a vagina is just as arousing. (002)Only a few narratives were submitted by informants in their teens; here is one of the best examples:After reading about autogynephilia, I suddenly became a lot less apprehensive about my decision to begin to transition. I’m 18 years old and am about to tell my parents. I’m opti-mistic about their reactions; my mom’s always wanted a daughter. I’m seeing a psychiatrist starting tomorrow. This is not a new thing; I had been in therapy most of my early life.I was worried that the fact that I feel sexually aroused by the idea of being a woman was a reason to doubt my gender dysphoria. I’ve always identi fi ed with women more than men but was never extremely effeminate. I am heterosexual, but only because I can’t imagine myself having sex with a man as a man. My fi rst realization of my desire to be feminine was in summer camp, when I was 12 years old. I was making a short video starring myself and I imagined a completely unnecessary scene involving my wearing various beautiful dresses and wigs. I was surprised to be aroused by this and actually ejaculated for the fi rst time after masturbation. After the fantasy had ended, the desire did not retreat and has plaguedme ever since. I would guiltily sneak into my mother’s closet when she was away and wear as many combinations of her clothes as possible. I was almost always turned on by it, but I mostly did not masturbate. Instead, I’d condemn my penis for getting in the way.My friends still can’t understand why I hate my penis so much, even after I told them that I am very committed to the idea of becoming a woman.I fantasize about having sex as a woman. I can vividly imagine myself being penetrated. I fantasize about having long, beautiful hair, having it braided, having it on my face, having it short and cute. I try to do these things to my short guy hair and practically cry at feeling so inadequate. Wearing women’s clothing is always something that initially turns me on, but when that damn penis of mine eventually becomes fl accid, I feel very comfortable and natural. I imagine having breasts. I tried taping my chest [to create the appearance of cleavage], but I’m too thin to generate a satisfactory appearance. I had a brief period during which I would only be attracted to women I would want to be.I feel that it is perfectly natural for transgender people to be turned on by sexual situations involving being who they believe they are. Having your biological self in a sexual fantasy can completely ruin it. (003)Some informants stated that they had rejected the idea of undergoing sex reassignment, even though they intensely wanted it; usually they cited inability to pass as a woman or family obligations as the principal reasons.I am an autogynephiliac. I want to be female, but I don’t already feel female inside. Rather, I have a deep, hard-wired longing built into me that I can’t shake or get rid of and that I can remember having since I was a child. I feel like I am looking through an unbreakable glass window at a place I want to be and a life I want to have yet am unable to reach. This desire feels hardwired: As much as I don’t want to want it, it is still there, taunting and frustrating me. The thought of being female turns me on so much that it’s my primary sexual attraction mechanism. But my body is such that I could never transition convincingly.This feels way deeper than what I imagine a fetish to be. There are countless days where I experience little in the way of feeling “turned on,” yet I still have this deep aching inside of me to somehow be transformed into the object of my desires. Some days it is just a fl eeting feeling on the edge of my peripheral awareness. Other days I feel it so strongly that I want to scream in frustration. I do have a separate, unrelated fetish, and I can feel a signi fi cant difference between that fetish and my autogynephilia. With the fetish, I can be turned on very strongly, but I don’t actually want it to be made manifest; it’s just a fantasy.But with the desire to be female, there is nothing I want more, even though it usually doesn’t turn me on quite as much as my fetish.I don’t feel that I am a woman in a man’s body. As a child, riding my bike and playing with robots and guns and blowing up toy cars was more interesting to me than playing with dolls and dress-ups. Clothes and fashion never really interested me. I am attracted to women, not to men; I can remember always wanting a girlfriend. I am competitive and driven to win and achieve. I sometimes feel masculine aggression at thoughts like winning a fi ght or defending my family. I love logical, analytical activities and write software and web applications professionally.My attraction to women has never involved a desire to have sex; at no point have I ever looked at a woman and had a sexual response to the thought of having sex with her. My desire for a girlfriend, I think, always related to the need for acceptance and companionship.When I am really in the midst of a fantasy, imagining myself as a female, my interest in women decreases, though not completely. My sexual desires and fantasies take on that of a heterosexual woman, including all of the normal acts that would occur in the bedroom. I can even start to fantasize about being pregnant, breast-feeding, getting married, and so forth.When I think of myself in a male body, though, none of that appeals to me, and it even repulses me. (004)Most informants did not explicitly report their nationality, but I assumed that they were predominantly from the US. Among informants from outside the US, most resided in Australia, Canada, or the UK; here is an example from a Canadian informant:I am a 50-year-old Canadian male. My fi rst memories of identifying with the opposite gender were in early childhood. By the time I was 12 or 13, I was secretly experimenting with makeup, wearing my mother’s lingerie, and curling and styling my hair as a girl would.I honestly do not recall whether my cross-dressing was erotically motivated, but from my experiences later in life, I would say that my motivation was erotic.In my early teens, I became interested in girls for reasons other than wearing their clothes. In an attempt to purge myself of my longings, I plunged myself into the world of competitive athletics. I was very athletic and not feminine at all. I won seven provincial championships in two different sports. My success in sports did not, however, eradicate my feminine yearnings: They survived and would resurface over and over again.I recall my fi rst erotic fantasies of becoming female in my late teens. In addition to cross-dressing when I could, I would also purchase Playboy and Penthouse magazines and imagined myself as the models in the pictures, with their breasts and genitals. These are my fi rst memories of anatomic autogynephilia. I have never had or wanted a relationship with a male, although I have fantasized about having a male penetrate me as a woman.I met my wife in high school and we were married during my fi rst year of college.I continued to dress en femme when the opportunity presented itself; the motivation was purely erotic. The thought of having breasts and a vagina aroused me. Seeing myself in a mirror appearing like a woman was erotic, but it also made me feel “better.” In 30 years of my marriage, I have been through the cycles of the desire to be female and cross-dress, followed by shame, guilt, purging and the return of my desire to be female. Although I say that my desire returned after purging, I don’t think it ever really went away.About 15 years ago, my desire to dress and be feminine became overwhelming. I would take every opportunity to ful fi ll my needs, including taking days off work. I often thought of telling my wife but couldn’t bring myself to do it. Then one evening I decided it was time for us both to face the truth. To my surprise, she took it remarkably well. Since my wife found out about my gender dysphoria, I have made great strides in becoming the person I want to be. I have had approximately 125 hours of electrolysis and my facial hair is almost all gone. I started hormone therapy but stopped after my breasts had developed suf fi ciently to satisfy me.I am still aroused by the thought of having a female body, but the requirement to masturbate has all but disappeared. The dysphoria, however, has not subsided. Although I have small breasts, and virtually no body or facial hair, the longing to be a female in all physical aspects has persisted and grown stronger. I have reached the point where I want SRS and am taking steps towards that end. (005)Fewer than a dozen narratives were submitted by informants who resided in non-English speaking countries in Europe; below is one unusually detailed account: I am a 28-year-old male from Greece and a PhD student in engineering. I think Blanchard’s theory describes me 100%. I was not one of those boys who were feminine in childhood.Around the age of 6 or 7 years, I had my fi rst crush on a girl. I loved her in the way a young boy feels love. I never felt attraction for a boy, only for girls.At the age of 4, I had my fi rst autogynephilic experience. It was so intense that I still recall the smallest details. My mother kept some of her lipsticks in the bathroom. One day I went inside, climbed the tub, reached the lipsticks, and immediately tried one. My heart was pounding and my hands were trembling. I felt a strange mixture of anxiety, happiness, tranquility, and ful fi llment. I admired myself in the mirror. I remember saying exactly thesewords to myself: “I can be a great woman!” When I was 7 or 8 years old, I remember looking at my mother’s panties and feeling a compulsion to try them on. The laundry basket became my magic box; I tried on all the panties I found inside. I hadn’t discovered sexual pleasure yet; it just felt nice wearing female underwear.I had seen my younger sister naked, and I felt the urge to change my genitals. I wanted to make my penis disappear and have a vagina; I wanted to be forced to sit to pee. I created a method of tucking my penis using sticky tape. Every time I was alone in the house, I transformed my genitals. I don’t remember my fi rst orgasm in detail, but it was certainly after genital transformation with the tape. During that period, I could never achieve an orgasm if I hadn’t fi rst transformed my genitals. After a time, I found that I could just fantasize that I was a girl; then I could achieve orgasm easily. All my fantasies had one common thing, my becoming a girl; I usually had to do some feminine thing, like sitting to pee, or having to wear a dress to go outside.During the same period, I felt a great need to use sanitary napkins. The thought of menstruating turned me on, and the fi rst time I used a pad I had a feeling as intense as the fi rst time I tried the lipstick. I started using pads regularly. Every time I changed my body to become more feminine or did something that only girls do, I got that same feeling. I started wearing my mother’s high heels at home and tried on her pantyhose. My usual ritual when left alone in the house was transforming my genitalia, wearing female underwear, a pad, clothes, shoes and jewelry. Every such session ended with masturbation and my fantasizing that I was a woman having sex with a man. The moment after I ejaculated, I got a very negative feeling, a mixture of remorse, sadness, disgust, disappointment, and humiliation.At about age 12, I discovered the ultimate genital transformation: instant glue. I applied a large amount of glue to my genitals, in order to have a fi rm tuck and be able to go to the bathroom like a girl. The result was quite good: My genitals were hidden perfectly, giving me a smooth crotch. If I wanted to go to the bathroom, I had to go in the feminine way: No other way was possible. Even if I wanted to get free, it would be impossible to do it easily.This feeling of inevitability triggered an explosion of autogynephilic feelings, from the inevitability of being female. I admired my body in the mirror. The price for all this pleasure was two painful hours of sitting with a mirror between my legs, taking off millimeter-by-millimeter the glue that had covered the scrotal and perineal area. Many times the skin was damaged and there was bleeding, and I had to clinch my teeth to stand the pain. Every time I swore that I wouldn’t do it again, but not only could I not keep my vow, at times I tried again after only a few hours. I also experienced the urge to have breasts and be obliged to wear a bra. I enjoyed wearing my mother’s bras and I loved the marks they left in my skin after taking them off.At the age of 17–18, I had my fi rst relationship with a girl. It lasted for almost 6 months.The frequency with which I had transformation sessions decreased. I was functioning more like a normal guy, but there were times that autogynephilic feelings occurred, even with my girlfriend. When she was dressed in very feminine clothes, like a miniskirt and pantyhose, I envied her. Whenever I saw a beautiful woman, I couldn’t tell whether I was attracted to her as a man or whether I envied her for being a woman. Any arousal that I might feel looking at her was only because I was imagining myself in her position. At the age of 19, I went to University. I plucked up the courage and bought my own female underwear, pantyhose, pads, etc., and built a small wardrobe. I spend whole days locked in my apart-ment, dressed like a woman.I was surprised by the abrupt alternation of my feelings that occurred in fractions of seconds when an “en femme” session ended with an ejaculation (and most of the time I ended by masturbating). Before orgasm, I was ready to sacri fi ce everything to become a woman. And suddenly, after having an orgasm, the feeling was totally reversed! I was fl ooded with powerful remorseful feeling, which made me unhappy and miserable.I knew that as soon as an orgasm was achieved, the desire to be female would disappear for a time. For that reason, I often tried to delay orgasm or avoided orgasm at all. Wholeweeks sometimes passed before I masturbated. All this time, I went out wearing female underwear under my clothes and generally tried to do normal female activities, avoiding masturbation and orgasm. I also noticed a considerable reduction in the orgasmic aim I used to have; it did not matter too much if I hadn’t had an orgasm. It was more important to experience the everyday aspects of a woman’s life. I found enjoyment in reading women’s magazines, shopping, and grooming my nails and eyebrows. Of course, the sexual urges never stopped, but the remorseful feelings were greatly reduced. Autogynephilic feelings may at fi rst depend on sexual drive in order to be expressed; after a while, though, one associates them with general pleasure and a good feeling.I occasionally met girls with whom I had sexual intercourse. Kissing and cuddling was nice, but when it came to intercourse, I could only have an orgasm by fantasizing that I was female. At age 24, I met my present girlfriend. She has a sweet face and looks tiny and fragile, which triggers my male protective instincts. I promised myself a new beginning and threw all my female clothes away; I wanted to live a normal life as a man. From the beginning, I had a big problem having sex with her. First I couldn’t achieve an erection, and then when I achieved it, I couldn’t have an orgasm unless I fantasized that I was a female.After 8 months, I could no longer resist and tried on her underwear. After that, I again started building a new female wardrobe.Every day is a constant fi ght between the things that I have to do and the autogynephilia that creates disruptive thoughts. It is not easy to study when your mind pops up thoughts of being a girl. It is impossible to concentrate at your job when you envy the pantyhose that a stranger outside wore. It is hard to maintain a healthy relationship with your girlfriend when you envy her for being female. (006)Only a few narratives were received from informants living in Asia; here is one of the best examples:I am a 20-year-old Chinese Singaporean. I’ve always had thoughts of being female since I was 10 or 11. I would always dream of becoming a lady. But, due to social expectations, I’ve always shelved my desires. As I went through puberty, I started wearing lingerie, since I was 14. I felt extremely aroused when I wore a brassiere and imagined myself having breasts. These sessions always ended with me stimulating my anal cavity, imagining it was a vagina. I was also very fascinated with menstruation and wished I could have that also.I proceeded to try that; the fi rst time I wore a sanitary pad was when I was 10. It was so arousing I had an erection. I always had more girlfriends than guy friends. I fi nd it so fascinating just observing them. At times I just wished so much I could be one of them. I tried crossdressing once when I was 15. It was such a wonderful experience and I felt so sexually charged when I used the ladies room for the fi rst time. I get rid of the hair on my legs, and I’ve tried all sorts of stuff: wax, creams, etc. It just gave me such a feeling of sexual arousal when I lay there, waiting for the treatment to work, enduring the pain and smell. I used female deodorant and sweet-smelling shower gel. I would just get aroused anywhere when I fantasized about being feminine.I’m now engaged in a romantic relationship with an 18-year-old girl, and I’m trying to tell myself that I am male and I should remain that way. I’m just so afraid to hurt the girl that has been my best friend for 16 months. But I still have the tendency to crossdress, albeit not in public. And I still can’t suppress my feminization thoughts. I have also questioned myself on whether I’m gay. But I just don’t think so, as I have never really thought of having sex with a guy when I’m physically male. At the same time, I have also fantasized myself being a woman and being gang raped. I’m just so confused with all these feelings. I have never con fi ded in anyone before and I feel embarrassed about expressing myself so explicitly, due to the social mindset that was inculcated in me since childhood. (007)The examples above illustrate most of the major themes found in the narratives collectively. Some men who experience gender dysphoria, desire sex reassignment, or have begun or completed sex reassignment feel that the concept of autogynephilia accurately describes them. Furthermore, these autogynephilic transsexuals:• Often express relief and gratitude at having found a description of their condition that seems accurate.• Often state that their autogynephilic feelings caused them to doubt whether they were “really” transsexual.• Often report that they hesitated or refused to disclose their autogynephilic feelings to helping professionals and signi fi cant others.• Often report that their autogynephilic fantasies or behaviors began in childhood, usually well before puberty, and sometimes were associated with overt erotic arousal.• Usually concede that they were not overtly effeminate during childhood but instead displayed many male-typical interests and behaviors.• Often report that autogynephilic erotic arousal has continued throughout their lives, including after sex reassignment.• Usually give a history of erotic arousal associated with the fantasy or act of wearing particular items of women’s clothing.• Almost always report a history of erotic arousal associated with the fantasy or reality of having female breasts or genitalia.• Sometimes give a history of erotic arousal associated with fantasies of menstruating, breast-feeding, or being pregnant.• Often report a history of erotic arousal associated with the fantasy or act of engaging in behaviors considered typical or characteristic of females.• Often describe a history of erotic arousal associated with the fantasy or act of having sex with a man as a woman, even though they are not otherwise sexually attracted to men.• Typically state that most or all of their sexual partners have been women or that they are primarily attracted to and tend to fall in love with women.• Often experience autogynephilia and heterosexual attraction as competing with each other, in that autogynephilic feelings decline when a new heterosexual relationship begins and re-intensify when the novelty of a heterosexual relationship wanes.• Sometimes describe autogynephilia as feeling like a variant, misdirected, or self-directed form of heterosexuality.• Occasionally experience little or no sexual attraction toward other persons.• Often report that autogynephilic fantasies or behaviors are obligatory to achieve orgasm during partnered sex and masturbation.•Sometimes observe that their desire to be a woman temporarily disappears following orgasm and is replaced by feelings of disgust or remorse.• Sometimes describe other co-occurring paraphilic sexual interests.•Sometimes experience autogynephilic erotic arousal or associated penile erections as unwanted or unpleasant.• Typically report that feminizing hormone therapy reduces, but rarely eliminates, autogynephilic arousal.• Sometimes state that autogynephilic feelings were an important motivation for their seeking sex reassignment, in that sex reassignment enabled them to actualize or manage their autogynephilic feelings.• Sometimes believe that autogynephilia is an effect, not a cause, of their cross-gender wishes and behaviors.Discovering The theory that one form of MtF transsexualism is an outgrowth of autogynephilia—erotic arousal to the thought of being a female—was not widely known until recently.One of the topics informants most frequently discussed in their narratives was discovering the concept of autogynephilia for the fi rst time. They often reported feeling amazement, relief, delight, and gratitude when they realized that the concept applied to them and could help them better understand themselves and their desires to be female. Many were reassured by the knowledge that other transsexuals shared similar feelings. Some said that the concept of autogynephilia helped them to feel more legitimately transsexual. In particular, it helped them to resolve the cognitive dissonance (“craziness”) that arose from believing that they were genuinely transsexual but having been told repeatedly that “real” transsexuals did not experience sexual arousal with cross-dressing or cross-gender fantasy. Not all informants described self-recognition as an autogynephilic transsexual to be a positive emotional experience, however: Some reported that it was associated with feelings of distress, sadness, or shame.Encountering the concept of autogynephilia prompted several informants to re fl ect on their encounters with psychologists or psychiatrists who had informed them that they could not really be transsexual because of their autogynephilic feelings. Others described misrepresenting or concealing their autogynephilic feelings in past or ongoing interactions with psychotherapists. Informants also re fl ected on the extent to which they believed that autogynephilia was a motivating factor in their desire to be women or to seek or undergo sex reassignment; they expressed a range of opinions, from “de fi nitely” to “not at all.”Informants frequently stated that the concept of autogynephilia provided an authentic, true-to-life description of their feelings and experiences. Some were surprised to find their desires, fantasies, and behaviors portrayed with seemingly uncanny accuracy:When I came across your paper on autogynephilia, I felt for the fi rst time that I was reading about myself. (008)After reading through the identi fi ers associated with autogynephilia, I realized that I related to each and every one. (009)Your article on autogynephilia describes exactly how I have felt since age 6 or 7. (010) When I read about autogynephilia, I saw myself so clearly that it hit me like a rock. (011) For some informants, the concept of autogynephilia and the recognition of themselves as autogynephilic transsexuals had a revelatory quality: They felt that a profound personal mystery had been explained at last.Thank you for your writings on autogynephilia. I thought I knew almost everything about transvestism and transsexuality, but I am speechless, as it described my entire journey much more accurately than the “woman trapped in a man’s body” explanation. For me, the idea of autogynephilia as a root or driving cause of transsexualism is a revelation. (012) Autogynephilia has just been fl at out revelatory to me. Over the last 5 years, I’ve been increasingly thinking that I’m transsexual but was always dismayed at not being able to fi nd myself in the transsexual literature. I read your article and sat there smiling, laughing, and rereading and rereading it. (013)Several informants used the word “epiphany” to describe what the concept of autogynephilia meant to them:Discovering autogynephilia was an epiphany. The theory, the essays, and the personal accounts spoke directly to me. (014)It is only since discovering Blanchard’s concept of autogynephilia that I’ve been able to fi nally make some sense of who and what I am. Since reading about autogynephilia, I’ve been able to accept the idea that my preoccupation with the female side of myself is rooted in sexual desire. It seems so obvious, but, as such personal epiphanies usually are, it was invisible until someone else pointed it out. (015)Thank you for your articles on autogynephilia: I feel like I have had an epiphany, a revelation, an “ah-hah moment” of self-recognition. (016)For a few, discovering the concept of autogynephilia was not only a revelatory experience but an intensely emotional one as well:I have just fi nished reading about autogynephilia, and all I can say is, thank you from the bottom of my heart. I have tears in my eyes as I write this: At 54 years of age, I have foundinformation that has liberated my thinking about myself. I had struggled for years to place myself in categories that did not seem right for me. Now I read about autogynephilia and all I can do is weep. It is like a homecoming. (017)We will subsequently observe, however, that informants’ emotional reactions to learning about autogynephilia were not always so positive.Many informants reported that discovering an accurate description of their feelings and experiences facilitated greater self-understanding. Here are some representative comments:The description of anatomic autogynephilia comes closer to my own personal experience than anything I have ever read on the subject of transsexuality and has helped me tremendously to understand my own transgendered feelings. (018)I identify strongly with the anatomic type of autogynephilia. Your article has provided the fi rst sensible discussion of how transgenderism applies to me. I am now motivated to review my life in a new context. (019)I had not been able to explain the almost inexorable force that continues to drive me to want to have the body of a woman until I read about autogynephilia. Now I understand. (020) In several narratives, the word “clarity” was used to describe individuals’improved insight into themselves and their desires:I had not heard of the word “autogynephilia” before. Everything rang utterly true for me.Never in all my research on this topic has any explanation nailed things down with such total obvious clarity for me. (021)Autogynephilia is an amazing concept. When I found out about it, it was as if I fi nally saw this aspect of myself with complete clarity for the fi rst time in my life. This is me! (022) The information you published on autogynephilia has given me a sudden clarity into what I have experienced my whole life. I feel almost like a weight has been lifted off of me. (023) One informant who had transitioned 3 years earlier observed that recognizing herself in the descriptions of autogynephilic transsexualism had helped her reach a more nuanced understanding of her status as a transsexual woman and come to terms with some personality traits that were not traditionally feminine: I began my transition at age 26 and completed sex reassignment surgery 3 years ago.Reading about autogynephilia has helped me shed many of my pretensions, which has helped me to become more grounded and not as easily hurt when my femininity is questioned. Indeed, I have come to accept the dual nature of myself as a thinking male with a female emotional life. (024)This excerpt illustrates how the theory of autogynephilic transsexualism cannot only promote personal understanding in a dramatic and revelatory way, but also in more subtle ways, by encouraging MtF transsexuals to re fl ect on the origins and meanings of their cross-gender identities.A few informants observed that the concept of autogynephilia provided a descriptive term and an explanatory schema that addressed feelings and desires that were rarely discussed openly: the erotic feelings that provided the impetus, at least in part, for wanting sex reassignment:As a transsexual who fi nds her own transsexualism to be the continuing culmination of many erotic fantasies, I want to thank you for eloquently expressing the importance for many of us of the “sexual” in transsexual. (025)I was delighted to read about autogynephilia. It is very much the idea and fantasy of having a woman’s body and enjoying it that I fi nd intensely arousing. It is a great relief to have this topic brought out into the open. (026)I have yet to read an explanation that more closely and accurately describes the motivation I feel than the concept of autogynephilia. This is the fi rst time anybody has ever said it is ok to have sexual feelings and motives. (027)The concept of autogynephilia not only puts the erotic dimension of transsexualism on the table for discussion but also implies that individuals can participate in such a discussion with less worry about whether they are “genuinely” transsexual.Several informants reported that the theory of autogynephilic transsexualism provided a better explanatory framework for making sense of their feelings and experiences than other theories of MtF transsexualism they had encountered. Other theories, they felt, either didn’t seem to apply to them or were missing some important element.You’ve published the concept I’ve been searching for, which fi nally explains my feelings.I’ve read all the traditional theories, yet I’ve always felt I was different. I’ve been trying to decide what to do, feeling I didn’t match the standard descriptions, yet knowing I had to do something. With this cloud of confusion lifted, I can make clearer decisions. (028) I think the ideas of autogynephilia match my feelings and understanding of my desires.I never really felt that the “politically correct” motivations matched my situation. (029) Your articles on autogynephilia, especially concerning the physical aspect of feminizing one’s body, hit home for me. I have always sought a reason for my gender dysphoria but have not been satis fi ed with most of the theories. Your articles describe me to a T. (030) I am convinced of the validity of the autogynephilic model of transsexualism. Unlike other theories I have read about, the autogynephilia model seems to exactly match up with my intuitive understanding of my own experience. (031)Because MtF transsexuals are eager to make sense of their seemingly inexplicable feelings and desires, they are often intensely interested in scienti fi c theories that attempt to explain the etiology or development of transsexualism. Finding a theory that is congruent with their personal experience is satisfying emotionally as well as intellectually.Another major theme expressed by many informants was relief upon learning that they were not alone in experiencing autogynephilic arousal. The discovery that others shared similar feelings was frequently a source of comfort and hope: I have struggled to fi nd information that fi ts my story. Your articles for the fi rst time have described my feelings. It feels good to realize that my feelings are felt by others. (032) I de fi nitely recognized myself in what I read about autogynephilia. Reading other people’s stories and learning that I am not alone is really a relief. (033)Thanks for making me aware that I am not alone in my fantasies and feelings. I know there are plenty of transsexuals, but I really felt that many of my thoughts and fantasies were unique. (034)I guess that I had simply never thought that someone else might feel the same way. It isn’t something that we talk about. Finding out that autogynephilia is not just something with me, uniquely, has made a difference in my status as a transsexual. (035) Discovering that others shared the same feelings was not only emotionally gratifying but could also provide the impetus to seeking professional help: The fact that I am not the only person who feels like a “man trapped in a man’s body” makes me hope that there is some way to mitigate my increasing distress. Thanks for writing the article. It made me feel less lonely and encouraged me to seek professional help. (036) Your article on autogynephilia resonated so directly with my own experience that I was able to fi nally reconcile myself to my nature and move forward with treatment. I have accepted myself as transsexual and have begun counseling for hormone therapy as a result. (037) Another signi fi cant theme in the informants’ narratives was relief and gratitude that their histories of autogynephilic arousal did not disqualify them from being considered genuinely transsexual. The theory of autogynephilic transsexualism validated their experience of transsexualism as legitimate and helped to dispel their doubts and fears:I have often had doubts about my own transsexuality and have felt like I was not a real transsexual. Now I have a better understanding of what I truly am. (038)I feel like your essay on autogynephilia totally validates my desire to transition. I have been sexually aroused by fantasies of being a woman since puberty. I was seriously considering transition when I was 36 or 37, but I felt like I didn’t meet the requirement of feeling like a woman trapped in a man’s body. (039)The description of anatomic autogynephilia has hit the nail right on the head. I never knew that there was a term for what I have been experiencing all my life. I thought at fi rst that I was transsexual; but I held off from transitioning because something just didn’t seem right about the de fi nition of a transsexual and what I experience. (040)Several narratives referred to the commonly held belief that anyone who experienced sexual arousal in connection with the fantasy of being a female was merely a transvestite or heterosexual cross-dresser, not a “real” transsexual: I think that autogynephilia is why a lot of MtF transsexuals initially feel, as I did, that they are not really transsexual and must be transvestites. You shouldn’t enjoy these thoughts, and if you do, then you’re not really transsexual. It isn’t until you discover more about the subject that you understand that you can have these feelings and be transsexual. (041) I have been involved with cross-dressing behavior since I was 5 or 6 years old and it has been sexually arousing for me. I had always been of the opinion that I was just a transvestite until recently. (042)I did worry that I was not truly a transsexual due to the erotic nature of my fantasies, which are usually associated with transvestism. (043)When I considered transition in the past, I quickly rejected the idea. I felt that my sexual grati fi cation proved I wasn’t a “real” transsexual, rather just a cross-dresser. Your essay fi nally makes it clear that these two categories are not mutually exclusive. (044) The last informant realized that one of the implications of the concept of autogynephilia is that “transsexual” and “cross-dresser” are not distinct and mutually exclusive conditions, but are merely points on a spectrum of symptomatology (seeLawrence, 2009b ) . Over time, greater awareness of the concept of autogynephilia may lead to a more sophisticated understanding of the relationship between these two closely related clinical entities.Before reading about the theory of autogynephilic transsexualism, several informants had felt “crazy”: They knew that, according to prevailing stereotypes about MtF transsexualism, experiencing erotic arousal in association with the idea of being female disquali fi ed one from being genuinely transsexual. They knew that they had experienced such arousal, but they also knew that they were severely gender dysphoric. The inability to reconcile their feelings with the prevailing stereotypes was disconcerting and distressing.I thought I was crazy, looking at myself as possibly transsexual but not fi tting the general stereotypes. But as I read about behavioral autogynephilia, my eyes widened and I felt a sense of understanding to a question that has driven me insane for 8 years. (045) Until I started reading the comments of others, I thought I was alone or crazy. I was having an incredible problem reconciling my desire to physically change my sex with most of the literature I had read on transsexualism. (018)I have been so confused about my gender dysphoria. I went to a therapist and he kept trying to get me to believe transsexualism is solely about gender identity. Then I came across your essay about autogynephilia and it helps me con fi rm what is actually going on in my head and that I’m not crazy. (046)Recognizing oneself to be an autogynephilic transsexual was not always a joyful, liberating experience for informants. On the contrary, it was a disconcerting realization for some. Several informants reported that acknowledging that they were autogynephilic transsexuals carried overtones of doubt, sadness, or shame. I consider the narrative excerpts describing these reactions to be especially important.Here are some representative comments:I read most of your article on autogynephilia with my mouth open or my hand up to my face.It made me uncomfortable to read something that so closely described my cross-gender urges, which don’t seem to fi t the transsexual norm. (047)For most of my life, I have been sexually aroused both by wearing women’s clothing and the fantasy of being a woman. I am desperately seeking a way to cross over to femininity, but admitting the sexual arousal part of my gender dysphoria is dif fi cult. (048) The only time that I am at peace with myself and my desires is when I am progressing toward my goal of being a woman. My therapist is con fi dent that I am on the right course, but I sometimes doubt myself because of my sexual fantasies. (049)I very often need feminization fantasies to achieve orgasm. My partner has told me not to be ashamed of it. But there’s something about it that has made me feel so inauthentic. As if maybe, despite the incredible ease of my transition, I’m not for real after all—that I’m just a messed up guy. I’m still bothered by it, I have to be honest about that. (050) One informant expressed distress and sadness that her self-focused pattern of autogynephilic erotic desire seemed to preclude genuine sexual intimacy with other persons:When I read one of your articles on autogynephilia, it blew my mind. You described Blanchard’s thesis as an epiphany, and it was like that for me, too. However, it was also upsetting to realize that my sexual desire had always been centered on myself, rather than involving an intimate sharing with someone else. I felt really cheated out of something that seemingly was effortless for others. (051)This informant’s statement is reminiscent of the one made in Chap. 1 by Ms. Z, whodescribed her obligatory reliance on autogynephilic imagery during partnered sex as“a profound, disabling defect in her ability to feel genuine sexual love for other people.” One of the most distressing aspects of intense autogynephilic eroticism is that it often precludes real intimacy with one’s sexual partners; several informant’s descrip-tions of this phenomenon will be presented in Chap. 7 . In my opinion, interferencewith interpersonal intimacy during sex constitutes one of the strongest bases for considering clinically signi fi cant autogynephilia to be a genuine mental disorder.Several informants used the word “pervert” to describe themselves, based on their recognition that their sexual arousal pattern was paraphilic:Your article on autogynephilia explains the way I feel and what I have thought about myself all my life. I have always been honest about why I want to transition, but I feel like some kind of pervert when I tell any shrink. (052)You hit the nail right on the head with the theory of autogynephilia. This is truly about my sexual orientation. It is quite a kick in the butt to realize that you are a pervert4 or a deviant, but I’m also smart enough to know that I can’t rationalize my sexual desires away. (034)Reading your essay on autogynephilia, I made sense of my transsexual feelings for the fi rst time in my life. I cannot begin to express the misery of the self-loathing resulting from the fact that the object of my sexual desire is an abstract concept. For a very long time I regarded myself as a total pervert. (053)Although I consider the word “pervert” to be unnecessarily pejorative, I admire the insight and honesty of these informants: Autogynephilia is indeed a paraphilia—a condition formerly known as a perversion. Therein lies one likely reason why Blanchard’s theory of autogynephilic transsexualism has not gained much traction among MtF transsexuals: It requires unusual honesty and courage to embrace a theory that tells you that you have a paraphilia. Some psychotherapists may have been reluctant to accept Blanchard’s ideas for a similar reason. It requires a high degree of professional integrity to embrace a theory that tells you that some of your clients—clients whom you genuinely want to help and support—suffer from a paraphilia.I would argue that, from a psychotherapeutic perspective, validation of a client’s experience of psychopathology (and addressing associated issues of shame and stigma) is ultimately a more powerful and effective intervention than attempting to“depathologize” a condition that is genuinely pathological. The following two narrative excerpts support the value of this approach:Your description of paraphilic autogynephilia in transsexuals is right on the mark, so far as my life has been concerned. I am glad and greatly relieved that the paraphilic condition of autogynephilia has been recognized. (054)I have always been sexually aroused at the thought of my feminization. Many transsexuals who are brave enough to look at themselves objectively will admit to some level of autogynephilia. The problem is that our society has put such shame on sexual perversion that many people feel they have to put on a big front and avoid the issue. (055) I will discuss feelings of shame about autogynephilic transsexualism in detail inChap. 12 .In contrast to the more positive views expressed in many of the earlier narratives, two informants expressed concerns about possible negative consequences for themselves or for MtF transsexuals generally if it became widely recognized that one form of MtF transsexualism was the outgrowth of a paraphilia.My wife was initially accepting of my cross-dressing desires as a fetish, but became very opposed when it became clear to her that it wasn’t just a sexual turn-on. She feels this will harm our children, so she is trying to limit me to supervised visitation only. I am a little concerned about the effect of me being viewed as having a paraphilia, as opposed to being purely “a woman in a man’s body,” on the court case. (056)I think we need to be very careful with study of this subject. If you are not transgender, this stuff will blow your mind, although if you are transgender, it makes sense. That’s why theconcept of autogynephilia is dangerous. I think we need to move toward an understanding of gender dysphoria on a deeper level than sexual grati fi cation, which is where autogynephilia puts it. And it is not about that. Sure, it’s part of it, but a small part. People are starting to see us transsexuals as something other than freaks, so please don’t screw that up. (057) The latter informant’s belief that the concept of autogynephilia implies that gender dysphoria is exclusively about sexual grati fi cation is not accurate, as I explained inChap. 2 . Unfortunately, misconceptions of this kind concerning autogynephilia are not uncommon among MtF transsexuals and the psychotherapists who provide care to them.More than a few informants reported receiving invalidating statements from their psychologists and psychiatrists, who sometimes suggested that an informant’s history of autogynephilic arousal meant that she was not genuinely transsexual: I have had autogynephilic sexual fantasies for as long as I have had sexual fantasies—of having a woman’s body and responding the way a woman would. This part of my life has always been intensely sexual. For decades, professionals told me that I could not really be a transsexual, because I was oriented toward women. Reporting my fantasies got an equally negative response. (058)My thoughts of being female almost always were accompanied by erotic feelings. I was bitter for years because of the rejection I met in the psychiatric community when I acknowledged that many of my thoughts had a sexual element involved. “Well, you’re just a transvestite, then,” was the dismissive message I received. That’s ridiculous and naive. (059) The evaluation at the John’s Hopkins gender clinic was interesting. They asked questions about my fantasies, about arousal during cross-dressing, and lots that seemed to be related to latent homosexuality. Their conclusion was that I wasn’t transsexual because I wasn’t homosexual and was aroused by cross-dressing. (056)By the time I was 22, I was sure I was a good candidate for MtF sex reassignment surgery.Unfortunately, I had a psychologist at that time who did not see me as a “true transsexual”because of my autogynephilia. The autogynephilia really did have me thinking that I was merely a hopeless paraphiliac and not a realistic candidate for sex reassignment surgery. (060) With respect to the last informant’s comment: One of the implications of the theory of autogynephilic transsexualism is that paraphilic individuals can sometimes be very appropriate candidates for SRS.Reluctance to disclose autogynephilic feelings to psychotherapists was a common theme in the narratives, especially when dealing with therapists who were in a position to grant or deny approval for hormone therapy or SRS. Several informants concluded that being honest about their feelings was simply too risky:4 I haven’t broached the subject with my therapist. I think that a lot of women are apprehensive about telling someone that they get excited in this fashion, because that is what is associated with transvestites, and it would potentially hurt their transition goals. (041) The de fi nition of autogynephilia describes me perfectly. My life-long desire to have feminine urinary function and female genitalia was de fi nitely a major reason for my sex reassignment surgery. However, I never explained this to my therapist, fearing he would not support my planned surgery. (061)When I fi rst came across the concept of autogynephilia, I identi fi ed strongly with some of the personal accounts by autogynephilic transsexuals. I have never discussed or admitted my sexual feelings to the psychiatrists at Charing Cross for fear of being labeled a fetishist and losing access to treatment and sex reassignment surgery. (062)I am in my second year of transition. More often than not, I have had to indulge in forced feminization fantasy to enable me to orgasm. I feel that forced feminization fantasies are probably normal for most transsexuals, regardless of what they say. Let’s face it, though: Tell that to a psychiatrist gatekeeper and see how far you get. I think most of us know what we want and just play the game to get there. (063)I am a 42-year-old male, currently living full-time as a woman and approved for SRS.While I do not believe that sexual fantasy is my primary motivating force towards seeking sex reassignment surgery, it is certainly one of the factors. But it is a factor I cannot even mention to my therapist, for fear of having sex reassignment surgery denied me. Although I want to trust my therapist, she is a gatekeeper and could easily put an end to my sex reassignment surgery with a phone call. Obviously, this attitude greatly skews any data collected on this subject. (064)I am seeing a psychiatrist about my gender dysphoria. To see some of my autogynephilic feelings described makes them less scary to me, but I’m still leery about sharing them with my psychiatrist. In my opinion, we all must keep some of these feelings private and keep the smokescreen of pure and simple gender dysphoria at the forefront. I think that most therapists would interpret some of these feelings as fetish-driven and try to protect us from ourselves by placing barriers in the way of gender reassignment. (057) Other autogynephilic transsexuals similarly concluded that the safest approach to take with psychotherapists was to present themselves as “textbook cases” of MtFtranssexualism, not only refusing to disclose their history of sexual arousal with cross-dressing or cross-gender fantasy but lying about this if necessary. Their attitude is consistent with data from Walworth’s ( 1997 ) survey of 52 MtF transsexuals, who reported that sexual arousal with cross-dressing was the single most common topic about which they had lied to or misled their psychotherapists.One comment on why transsexuals may be so unwilling to talk to therapists on this issue: I didn’t bring it up because I wanted sex reassignment surgery. I fi gured out early on that I had to present what they wanted to see, not what I really was. I had no belief at all that I could get approval without lying, so I lied. (065)Before I began transition, I read your writing about autogynephilia. I felt that the concept applied to me somewhat, although I did not want to tell anyone that, because I was determined to have a fl awless, “by-the-book” case of transsexualism so that I could pursue sex reassignment surgery. (066)I’m considering fi nding a therapist so that I can begin moving toward transition. Sadly, it seems apparent that, if I’m honest with my therapist about my autogynephilic feelings, she will consider me inappropriate for sex reassignment surgery. So, I’m left with having to fi nd a therapist and parrot the lines they want to hear in order to get my letter. (067)Explanations like these might partly explain why many psychotherapists who specialize in gender issues report that they rarely encounter clients for whom autogynephilia is a signi fi cant issue.In contrast to the experiences described above, some informants disclosed their autogynephilic feelings to their psychotherapists and did not encounter invalidating reactions:I showed your article to my psychiatrist on my fi rst visit and said that it was closer to my own feelings than anything else I had read. He had not heard of the term autogynephilia, although he probably has seen other cases. He is nonjudgmental and this action does not seem likely to have any adverse effect on my diagnosis. I certainly feel much better about this than creating a package of lies to meet my expectations of what I think “they” want to hear. (068) I received my surgery about 2 years ago. When I was in the throes of making my decision, some of the issues in your article about autogynephilia concerned me a great deal. I was lucky that I had a very understanding therapist and I was able to openly discuss those feelings. (069) I have just gotten my letter of approval for genital surgery from my therapist. I identi fi ed as autogynephilic from the get-go, and my therapist was willing to work with me anyhow. (070) Perhaps such accepting reactions from psychotherapists will become more prevalent as the concept of autogynephilia becomes more widely known and its explanatory value becomes more generally appreciated.Some informants reported that other MtF transsexuals had told them that a history of autogynephilic arousal disqualified them from being genuinely transsexual.Others feared that disclosing their autogynephilic feelings to other transsexuals might elicit such responses.I transitioned in my early 20s. The fact that I was sexually excited by being a woman made other transgender people label me a cross-dresser or a fetishist and not a true transsexual. (071)When I was still preoperative, I would sometimes tell some of my transsexual friends that I really wanted to have sex as a woman and that it was one of the primary motivating factors, not so much in my transition, but in the desire to have sex reassignment surgery. I quickly learned that an admission like that was not really a good idea: I usually got an earful about how I couldn’t be transsexual. (072)I’ve never honestly discussed my feelings within the transsexual community, because I know that admitting to autogynephilia would lead to being ostracized. (062)4 It is easy to fi nd examples of such invalidating assessments on many of the Internet sites maintained by high-pro fi le MtF transsexual activists. These individuals often state or imply that autogynephilic transsexuals are not genuinely or legitimately transsexual. Ironically, the transsexual activists who maintain these Internet sites often have demographic pro fi les that are strongly suggestive of autogynephilic transsexualism, although the activists usually deny or minimize any history of autogynephilic arousal. As I noted in Chap. 1 , counterfactual denial of autogynephilic arousal by genuinely autogynephilic persons is a well-documented, well-under-stood phenomenon (Blanchard et al., 1986 ; Zucker et al., 2012 ) .Some informants stated that they were reluctant to disclose their autogynephilic feelings to professional or nonprofessional persons, either out of shame or a wish to avoid controversy:I fi t the autogynephile description. In my own mind, I don’t feel the need to hide behind a gender-based excuse or explanation for my desire to have a woman’s body. But I’ve felt the need to express it to others cloaked in the terms of “gender reassignment,” simply because my paraphilia seemed indefensible. How could I admit to being intensely sexually interested in an altered version of my own body? I don’t want to alienate others by admitting what society has asked me to be ashamed of: the fact that nothing turns me on more than the idea of inhabiting a woman’s body. (073)I hope I can fi nd a good way to explain why I am doing this without having to reveal just how perverted this is. How ironic: When I live as a woman, I will have to live a lie. (034) I don’t talk about autogynephilia much with other transgender persons, since it upsets them.They feel that it invalidates them or something. (070)Your descriptions of autogynephilia are very consistent with my experiences. I have had the opportunity to discuss these topics with others in my local transgender support group. As you might imagine, it was not always a popular topic. (074)If the concept of autogynephilia were to become more widely known and appreciated, autogynephilic transsexuals might eventually be able to discuss their feelings with fewer concerns about negative social consequences.Several narratives contained re fl ections on the implicit theory of motivation that is associated with the concept of autogynephilia. Not surprisingly, informants expressed differing opinions about whether autogynephilia was a motive for their cross-gender expression or for seeking sex reassignment.Several informants reported that the desire to actualize their autogynephilic feelings was the principal driving force or motivation for their cross-gender expression or for their decision to seek sex reassignment:I kept denying that there was a sexual component to my transgendered feelings until I read your paper concerning autogynephilia. I now realize that the driving force for my transgender behavior is the sexual feelings in becoming a woman. For the fi rst time, I understand the motivating factors. (075)The autogynephilic hypothesis makes plenty of sense to me, as it is self-sexual desire that has driven my fantasies and my desire to change my body. (076)I have always had highly charged erotic feelings associated with the development of female sex characteristics. It seems to me it’s been the root cause of a greater commitment to transsexuality and it’s what drives me from one step to the next. (077)I transitioned in my early 20s. I started hormones at 21 and was full-time at 22. The idea of being a woman sexually excited me. I was literally driven to go for facial feminization surgery and to get SRS by this urge. (071)My sexuality and pleasure comes from the thought of myself as a woman. In my case, being a woman is all I ever wished for. My most intense feelings are bound up in this idea. It has been the driving force of my life. (078)I am a 55-year-old MtF, nearly 4 years post-op. The concept of autogynephilia helped provide an understanding of my behavior. Sex is a powerful force for some of us and certainly me. I just wanted to add to the ever increasing body of evidence that many of us are indeed motivated to undergo sex reassignment surgery by our autogynephilia. (079) An informant who had not yet transitioned likewise felt that her autogynephilic eroticism would eventually lead her to sex reassignment:I have always found cross-dressing extremely erotic. I still fi nd women’s clothing and the thought of becoming a woman sexually exciting. I feel like the erotic feelings are eventually going to drive me to start hormone therapy, electrolysis, and eventually surgical reassignment. (080)Another observed that the impetus to actualize her autogynephilic sexual desires was comparable to the impetus to actualize her other sexual desires, such as engaging in sexual activity with preferred partners or undergoing erotic piercing: My fantasies of feminization of my body are intertwined with piercing fantasies and practice, both genital and other (facial, nipples, navel), and with heterosexual desire and fantasies. As such, they are a very strong force in my pursuing SRS, like piercing fantasies are for pursuing being pierced and sexual desire is for pursuing heterosexual sex. (081) Yet another informant observed that sexuality was such an important aspect of life that it seemed wrong to forego the opportunity to actualize her autogynephilic desires:Your views about autogynephilia made a lot of sense to me. To be a woman, to be taken, to have orgasms as a woman—I have a compulsion to experience those feelings. It seems wrong to live as a conventional man, imagining sexually being a woman, and just leave it at4 that. You can minimize it all, say, oh, well, it is just sex, and sex is just one aspect of life among many. Yes, but sex is like the tip of the pyramid of life. (082) In a lengthy meditation on her motive for wanting to transition, an informant proposed that, in her case, autogynephilia led to the creation of a powerful cross-gender identity (“will to be a woman”) that she felt she had to express in order to live a truly vital life:No matter how much effort I put into the project of developing a female personality, the fi nal product will not be equal to my male personality in terms of integration and authentic-ity. At best, it will have elements of phoniness, insecurity, and awkwardness. Why exchange something good for something poor? The answer is that a female personality will afford a superior link to my subconscious and therefore will be better in certain very important areas. I prefer to explain this in terms of autogynephilia. Just as a forest fi re can develop into something that is categorically different—namely, a fi re storm, which generates its own weather patterns—so can autogynephilia develop into something that is categorically different than a mere sex drive: It can give rise to a subconscious will to be a woman. Once this subconscious will to be a woman has been born, life can only truly be vital when one is consciously projecting oneself toward being a woman. How important are the relatively rare moments when life is truly vital? To me they are extremely important. I would trade a good deal in the area of the practical to be able to have states of conscious will that were“supercharged” with energy from the subconscious. (083)Although I might quibble with the term “subconscious,” I feel that this informant makes several excellent points. First, we autogynephilic transsexuals often observe that autogynephilia seems to exert its motive force indirectly, by giving rise to our strongly held, highly valued cross-gender identities. Second, our lives often do feel as though they lack vitality and purpose if we fail to express our cross-gender identities. Finally, we often pay a heavy price for expressing our cross-gender identities, because we are not naturally feminine and because the female personas we create sometimes appear unusual or inauthentic—to ourselves as well as to others. I willdiscuss these issues in more detail in Chap. 12 .Other informants acknowledged that autogynephilia was probably or de fi nitely part of their motive for seeking sex reassignment. Many of them suggested, however, that other factors—especially female gender identity—played a signi fi cant part as well. Regrettably, the latter informants rarely addressed the question of whether their female gender identities might have been direct outgrowths of their autogynephilic feelings or whether their cross-gender identities had developed independently of autogynephilia.I think the increasing pervasiveness of those autogynephilic sexual fantasies have contributed to my decision to transition. I could, within the acceptable range of male behavior, wear feminine clothes, have sex with men, knit during school lessons, work in a kindergarten and so on. I have done all this, and it has given me some relief as to my struggles with my male gender identity. At a certain point, I realized that I had done everything possible to accept my male gender, and it still didn’t work. I have thought a lot about the reason for this,and after having read your article it becomes more clear that the fact that I see myself as a woman in my sexual fantasies may have a say here. (084)I am a 39-year-old heterosexual anatomic autogynephilic transsexual. I am now seriously considering SRS. I have declined in the past, simply because I have known that my motives were sexual. My motives now are less connected with my sexual desire and more to do with an ever-deepening desire to be female generally. (053)While I do not believe that sexual fantasy is my primary motivating force towards seeking sex reassignment surgery, it is certainly one of the factors. (064)I am 49 years old and have been approved for hormone therapy by a gender therapist. We have talked about my belief that elements of autogynephilia are part of the reason that I want to pursue such a course. While the thought of being female has and continues to be somewhat arousing to me, there was no time in life that I didn’t want to be the opposite sex.Based on my experience, I think one can be a blend of autogynephilic and so-called “legitimate” tendencies. (085)I guess in some ways sexual desire did play a part in my decision to transition, but certainly it was not the entire reason. I did it because I have felt this way for as long as I can recall. (086) I am a 41-year-old postoperative transsexual. I don’t think it is as simple as saying that wanting a sex change is purely driven by sexual fantasies or not. I think that it is a factor that is woven into a complex set of emotions and feelings that drive one to undergo such a dramatic change in life. I admit that I have had many sexual fantasies about being female and having a female body, a life long dream for me. I am not ashamed that I am sexually turned on by being female now, nor do I think that it was a wrong motivation for transitioning. (069) Other informants conceded that autogynephilia might constitute a principal or partial motive for seeking sex reassignment but were unable to say so de fi nitely: I did not transition until age 36. I’ve never understood what might have been the spur for the gender dysphoria, but perhaps in my case the autogynephilia acted as positive reinforcement. After all, if I feel the best ever (and sexy) when fantasizing as a female, that would be a powerful incentive to promote and enlarge that fantasy. (087)I have been exploring transsexualism actively for maybe 6 months. Cross-dressing in the closet has been my outlet for 25 years. The thought of being a woman transports me. I don’t seek only to be a woman in appearance, I want the full experience. Is it arousing? Sure. Is it the reason? I don’t think so, but it is hard for me to differentiate. (088)The desire to engage in sex as a woman was emphasized as a principal motivation for seeking sex reassignment in a few narratives. This desire is plausibly a manifestation of behavioral autogynephilia, although some informants offered other explanations for it.I am a 35-year-old who has undergone therapy for gender dysphoria over the past 2 years.My erotic thoughts have always been fueled by my thinking of myself as female, and having sex as a woman was a great motivator in my pursuit of SRS. (066) I’m not sure whether my feelings are really completely autogynephilic. I believe I would have transitioned anyway, because there were a whole variety of nonsexual experiences that I wanted to have. But at the same time, the thought of having sex as a woman was4 strong—very strong—and I’m not sure I would have gone through sex reassignment surgery without it. (072)Sexual feelings have been very important in my decision to transition. For a long time, I’ve had sexual fantasies about men, but physically I couldn’t have a relationship, because in my mind I’ve always had an image of myself as female, and having a male body kept me from being able to experience the type of sex I wanted. (089)I read a statement about some autogynephilic transsexuals “becoming the women they love.” I’m becoming what I’m attracted to, and at the same time, I’m hoping to attract a woman who is like me and likes that aspect of me. There is a sexual motivation for my pursuit of SRS, but it is not for personal grati fi cation, it is to feel whole and complete, able to function with a woman the way I want to. (090)Other informants who acknowledged a history of autogynephilic eroticism denied (or doubted) that autogynephilic feelings played any signi fi cant part in motivating them to seek or undergo sex reassignment:I have experienced sexual arousal from all the things on your list and conform with all else I’ve read about autogynephilia. I always was attracted to women. These desires were NOTthe reason for transitioning; the understanding of my really being transsexual was. (091) My thoughts of being female almost always were accompanied by erotic feelings. But I don’t believe it would be accurate to say that I transitioned because of erotic feelings, for I might well have done so anyway. (059)One informant observed that her autogynephilic fantasies disappeared after she began hormone therapy; she concluded from this that autogynephilia had not been a signi fi cant motive for her transition.I must admit that I have had sexual fantasies of forced feminization and having a feminine body. After I started hormone therapy, though, feeling sexual desire in this manner became nonexistent. Even before hormones, wearing women’s clothing had lost any appeal to sexual desire for me. I don’t think sexual desire played any large role in my decision to transition. (092)Another informant believed that the process of sex reassignment was too arduous to undertake simply for the sake of living out her sexual fantasies. She conceded, however, that actualizing her fantasies would be an “unexpected bene fit” oftransition:Regarding autogynephilic sexual fantasies, I experienced many of these things much more intensely when I was younger, but the feelings are still there to a certain degree. Now, being out and accepted as just one of the girls is more of a goal for me. I feel out of place in my male body and aware that the male walls I had constructed around myself were nothing other than protection from my true self. Sure there are sexual desires within me, but I can experience sexual pleasure without transitioning and can act out many of my fantasies without transitioning. So why would I want to put myself and everyone around me through the costs and hell of transition? To fi nally fi nd peace with myself. Living out some of these fantasies in a female body would be an unexpected bene fi t of transitioning, not a motivating factor. (093)Narratives such as this are not unusual and are worth considering carefully.Blanchard’s theory proposes that the cross-gender identity of an autogynephilic transsexual is a manifestation of her autogynephilic sexual orientation: Her “desire to be a female” is an outgrowth of her autogynephilic sexual desire to be a female.From this perspective, an autogynephilic transsexual’s wish to express her “true self” (feminine gender identity) in order to “ fi nally fi nd peace” can be understood as driven or motivated, at least initially, by autogynephilia. Therefore, to claim that autogynephilia is not a motivating factor in such a case is merely to say that autogynephilia exerts its motive force indirectly, through the intermediary of the transsexual’s gradually developing cross-gender identity. After one’s journey toward fi nding peace has gone on for years or decades, it is seemingly easy to forget the autogynephilic sexual desires that originally gave impetus to that journey.In the narrative excerpts presented in this chapter, informants often reported that discovering the concept of autogynephilia was a revelatory experience. Many felt that the concept and the associated theory of autogynephilic transsexualism accurately described their feelings, facilitated greater self-understanding, and reassured them that they were genuinely transsexual. But this revelatory information did not always cause informants to rejoice: Sometimes it was an occasion for sadness or distress. None of the informants felt that autogynephilia was anything to be proud of, and some clearly considered it shameful.Moreover, many informants felt that they could not safely disclose their autogynephilic feelings to anyone. Disclosure to psychotherapists was risky, because therapists might withhold access to treatment if they believed an autogynephilic client could not be genuinely transsexual. Disclosure to other transgender persons was risky, too, because autogynephilia was controversial and disclosure might elicit invalidating responses. For many informants, then, the concept of autogynephilia was revelatory knowledge, but it seemed prudent to treat their personal experience of autogynephilia as private knowledge.Given these realities, it will probably be challenging for the concept of autogynephilic transsexualism to become widely known and generally accepted.Transsexuals who experience autogynephilia and could testify to its applicability and explanatory value are often reluctant to talk about their experiences, deterred by shame and the very real practical consequences of disclosure. Because such individual testimonials are rare, autogynephilic transsexualism can too easily be dismissed as “just a theory”—and one that describes only a tiny minority of MtFtranssexuals. This, in turn, makes autogynephilic transsexualism feel even more unusual and shameful to those who experience it and makes the possible consequences of disclosure potentially more serious. The resulting vicious cycle of ignorance, secrecy, shame, and fear of disclosure will probably be dif fi cult to break.In Chap. 12 , I will offer some suggestions about how the process might begin.If one accepts the theory that autogynephilic transsexuals are “men trapped in men’s bodies”—men who are unremarkably masculine except for the paraphilic sexual orientation that makes them want to turn their bodies into facsimiles of women’s bodies—one would predict that the developmental histories of these transsexuals should resemble those of other heterosexual men in most respects. Exceptions should be limited to traits or characteristics that are a result of their paraphilic sexual orientation. These predictions are consistent with observations by Whitam ( 1997 ) ,who offered this summary of the early developmental histories of transvestites and MtF transsexuals of the nonhomosexual type:Often their only cross-gender behavior [during childhood] is cross-dressing, which may not appear until just before, during, or after puberty and is often done in secret. Many transvestites and transsexuals of the heterosexual type have childhood experiences indistinguishable from those of boys who later become nontransvestic heterosexual men. (p. 192) Whitam’s observations are also largely consistent with the developmental histories provided by the study’s transsexual informants, albeit with a few exceptions.The fi rst indications of men’s eventual sexual orientations sometimes becomeevident in early childhood, as I will discuss in detail in Chap. 10 . For example, some pre-heterosexual boys develop crushes on girls or special friendships with them, orfantasize about eventual marriage with them (Bell,1902 ; Hat fi eld, Schmitz,Cornelius, & Rapson, 1988 ) ; some pre-homosexual boys have comparable feelings or experiences involving boys. These early indications of eventual sexual orientations appear well before puberty. Many of the study’s transsexual informants similarly reported that thefirst indications of their eventual autogynephilic sexualorientations became evident in early childhood, taking the form of cross-gender wishes and fantasies or cross-dressing behavior. Unequivocal indications of men’s eventual sexual orientations, manifesting as genital arousal in response to stimuli involving preferred sexual objects, usually become evident at or during puberty.This is usually true of pre-heterosexual and pre-homosexual boys, and it was also true of the transsexual informants: In nearly all cases, they described having experienced unambiguous autogynephilic genital arousal in connection with crossdressing or cross-gender fantasy during their early teenage years.Most heterosexual men display typically masculine interests and behaviors during childhood and adolescence and choose male-typical occupations in adulthood(Lippa, 2002 ) . Because autogynephilia is theorized to be a variant form of hetero-sexuality (Blanchard, 1992 ) , one would predict that the same should be true of autogynephilic transsexuals: Their childhood interests and behaviors and adult occupational choices should theoretically be similar to those of other heterosexual men. With occasional exceptions, informants’ narratives were consistent with these predictions.The familiar trope that describes pretransition MtF transsexuals as “women trapped in men’s bodies” is suggestive of a particular developmental history: It implies that MtF transsexuals will have developed psychological and behavioral characteristics that are typical of natal women, despite their incongruent male bodies. The theory of autogynephilic transsexualism implies a very different developmental history: It suggests that autogynephilic transsexuals usually will have developed psychological and behavioral characteristics that are typical of other heterosexual men; any exceptions will involve characteristics that derive from their autogynephilic sexual orientations (e.g., tendencies to cross-dress and engage in cross-gender fantasy). Consequently, one would predict that autogynephilic transsexuals would often reject the “woman trapped in a man’s body” description or at least be skeptical of it; some autogynephilic transsexuals might even endorse the countertrope I proposed and agree that they resemble “men trapped in men’s bod-ies” (Lawrence, 1998 ) . For the most part, informants’ narratives were consistent with these predictions as well.Men’s sexual orientations usually if not always remain stable throughout their lives, although strength of genital arousal and frequency of sexual behaviors often decline with advancing age. Because autogynephilia is conceptualized as a sexual orientation as well as a paraphilia, one would predict that autogynephilic transsexuals’ sexual orientations—manifesting as feelings of arousal from, attraction to, and love for the idea or reality of resembling women—would continue throughout their lives, including after sex reassignment. Once again, informants’ narratives were generally consistent with these predictions, although not in every case.Most informants who discussed the age of onset of their cross-gender fantasies and behaviors reported that these began in early childhood, usually between ages 4 and 6. This is somewhat earlier than most reports in the published literature.Age of Onset of Cross-Gender Fantasies, Behaviors, and Associated Arousal The nonhomosexual gender dysphoric men studied by Blanchard et al. ( 1987 ) reported the onset of cross-gender wishes at a mean age of 9.8 years and the onset of cross-dressing at a mean age of 9.6 years. In a study of 232 MtF transsexuals whohad completed SRS (Lawrence, 2003 ) , I observed that the mean age at which participants fi rst felt the desire to be the other sex or to change sex was 8 years. In the current study, it is possible that informants who experienced an especially early age of onset of cross-gender wishes or behaviors might simply have been more likely to mention this fact than those who experienced a later and seemingly less remarkable age of onset.In contrast, the ages at which informantsfirst experienced explicitly eroticfeelings in association with their cross-gender fantasies and behaviors varied widely.Some informants reported that their cross-gender wishes and behaviors were explicitly erotic from earliest childhood or were “exciting” or “thrilling,” implying possible erotic feelings. Others reported that associated erotic feelings developed only at puberty or, more rarely, well after puberty.More than a few boys cross-dress at least occasionally during early childhood. In a study of US children, Friedrich, Fisher, Broughton, Houston, and Shafran ( 1998 ) found that about 14% of 2-to-5-year-old boys and about 6% of 6-to-9-year-old boys had “dressed like the opposite sex” at least occasionally during the previous months, according to reports by mothers or female caregivers. In an earlier study of US children, Friedrich, Grambsch, Broughton, Kuiper, and Beilke ( 1991 ) found similar but slightly lower fi gures: about 6% of 2-to-6-year-old boys and about 3%of 7-to-12-year-old boys were reported to have cross-dressed during the previous months. Some boys who cross-dress during early childhood will become homosexual men, heterosexual transvestites, or MtF transsexuals in adulthood, but many or most probably will not.Childhood cross-dressing by boys is sometimes, but certainly not always, associated with erotic arousal. The published literature contains two case reports of boys younger than age 3 who expressed the desire to wear girls’ or women’s clothing and who developed penile erections when allowed to do so (Stoller, 1985 ; Zucker &Blanchard, 1997 ) ; these reports suggest that autogynephilic sexual arousal can begin very early in life. In a study involving 36 transvestite participants, Doorn et al.( 1994 ) found that 8 participants had begun cross-dressing before age 7, whereas only 5 or 6 (the article is unclear on this) denied that their cross-dressing was initially fetishistic, implying that at least 2 or 3 participants had experienced fetishistic arousal associated with cross-dressing earlier than age 7.In the current study, several transsexual informants reported that they had experienced penile erections or de fi nite erotic arousal or had engaged in masturbation in association with cross-dressing or cross-gender fantasies beginning in earlychildhood, typically between ages 4 and 6. Some informants distinctly remembered having had erections in association with cross-dressing:I have experienced sexual arousal from both imagining that I am a woman and looking at myself wearing feminine clothing since 4 years old. Long before my testes started to function at age 14, I could always get an erection by just putting on the panties, bras or petticoats of my sisters. (094)I can relate to the autogynephilic model to a great degree. I dressed often, up until about the start of elementary school, when my interactions with other children caused me to suppress this behavior. My mother never complained about my dressing up; in fact, she was quite encouraging. I remember at an early age getting erections while wearing my mother’s silken nightgowns. I started dressing again in earnest about the time male puberty started, around age 12. (095)Other informants reported that cross-gender fantasies alone were enough to induce penile erections in early childhood:I can remember vividly at the age of 6 getting a hard-on while wearing my mother’s clothing.I did this whenever I got a chance, which was hardly ever. Because I hardly ever got a chance to dress up, I discovered that merely fantasizing about wearing my mother’s clothing also gave me a hard-on. (096)From the age of 4, I had thoughts of wanting to know what it felt like to be a girl. I would make a wish, hoping that I would turn into a girl. I would develop an erection when I thought about becoming a girl; when I developed an erection, I thought some magical being was granting me my wish and I was going to become a girl. The erections were pleasurable, even after I knew that I wasn’t going to become a girl. This lasted until I was 8 or 10. It went away until I was 11 or 12, then it all came back very strongly. (097) Another informant reported penile erections in early childhood from daydreaming about being the maid of an attractive next-door neighbor and wearing her clothes: At about the age of 6 years, I became besotted by a lovely lady living next door. She must have been about 30, with a body to die for. In my dreams, both day and night, I was her maid and assistant, who was required to help her dress and provide assistance in her bathing and personal hygiene. I seem to remember getting a form of erection; however, my biggest wish was simply to grow up like her and be able to wear such lovely clothes. (098) Yet another informant recalled masturbating in early childhood to the image of having female rather than male genitalia:When I was 6 or 7, I used to masturbate with a piece of clothing—it did not need to be gendered clothing, I just did not want to touch my penis—and fantasize about not having a penis, but having a vagina. I was not sure how that all would work, but I was sure that this was what I wanted and should have. (099)Still another informant reported having experienced orgasms starting at age and strongly implied that these occurred in association with cross-dressing or cross-gender fantasy:I have highly developed skill at using my mind to facilitate orgasm, and what stimulates me the most is to be a female. From my earliest recollections at age 3 or 4 years, I have been able to do this. I got great pleasure wearing my sister’s skirts, and I was extremely paranoid about being discovered. I can remember orgasm from the age of 6. (100)Some informants did not describe penile erections or masturbation but nevertheless reported de fi nite erotic excitement or arousal associated with crossdressing or cross-gender fantasies in early childhood:I have vivid memories starting from about age 6 or 7 of wanting to be a girl and of sexual desires which accompanied it. I also remember feeling ashamed of those feelings, though I do not remember any particular incident which instilled such feelings. Fantasies of intentionally becoming a girl began around age 10. (101)I have had the autogynephilic sex drive since I was a small boy; I have memories of it that go back to around age 6. (102)Your discussion of autogynephilia seems to fi t me to a tee. I was dressed as a girl at age or 5 and found it arousing then. Whenever I was presented with the chance to be alone and wear my mother’s or sister’s clothes, I did so. (103)These narratives demonstrate that for some autogynephilic MtF transsexuals, crossdressing and cross-gender fantasies in early childhood are erotically charged phenomena.Several informants reported that cross-dressing or cross-gender fantasies during early childhood were thrilling, exciting, or associated with sensations similar to the explicitly erotic sensations of adulthood. These feelings, too, are plausibly erotic.As a very young child, age 4, I already had the urge to have my ears pierced and alter my sex. My mother let me try her collection of clip-on earrings, which excited me beyond belief. The exploitation of these feelings for eroticism occurred much later, of course, but I don’t think that proves that autogynephilia was not manifest in my early childhood. For example, I remember being thrilled by stories of boys allowed to wear dresses and long hair. (081)The concept of autogynephilia describes to a tee what I have been feeling all my life. Since age 4, I remember being excited by the thoughts of becoming and being a woman. After puberty, the only sexual fantasies that would bring me to orgasm involved me being a female. (104)I have always wanted to be a female. As long as I can recall, I have always had this desire.When I was around 5 years old, I remember sneaking into my mother’s closet and wearing her hose and girdles. I found this so exciting. (105)I have always found crossdressing extremely erotic and very sexually satisfying. It all started at the age 15, when I discovered my mom’s panties. That was when I had my fi rst sexual experience. However, I remember feeling different from other boys in kindergarten.I would compare myself and my frail body to girls my age. This sent a shivering and tingling sensation throughout my entire body. These thoughts were with me at a very young age. (080)My fi rst understanding that I desired to be a woman and its following excitement came when I was around 5 years old. This occurred watching a Doris Day movie and at fi rst involved the wonderful clothes she wore. The idea of the clothing continued to bothfascinate me and cause an excitement that I did not know what to do with at that age. My fi rst cross-dressing incident was directly an attempt to emulate Ms. Day. By the age of 8, I cross-dressed “regularly”—meaning every chance I could fi nd. I would fi nd reasons to stay at home when my mom went visiting friends. By about age twelve, the early-on“excitement” began to be associated with the beginnings of sexual arousal the clothing seemed to cause. (106)I can distinctly remember being excited as young as 6 or 7 at the prospect of becoming a girl and living a girl’s life. While too young to be really sexually stimulated by these thoughts, they certainly stirred an erotic side of me that has remained strong to this day. (107) I apologize for my limited knowledge of written English (I am Spanish). When I was 4 or 5 years old, I was playing with a girl friend of mine who was the same age. We were in her house, because our parents were friends. I don’t remember the reason, but her mother put me in the clothes of that girl that evening. I experienced some kind of happiness that I still remember. It was a physiological pleasure, and though I was just a child and couldn’t understand the nature of what I was feeling, it was something similar to the sexual pleasure I have experienced when I became an adult. It wasn’t the clothes I was wearing, I think it was that I felt I was like that girl friend of mine. (108)The fi nal narrative excerpt is a particularly instructive one. The informant was not able to truly understand what he experienced at the age of 4 or 5, but the episode was obviously memorable. He remembered feeling a “physiological pleasure”—a bodily pleasure, at least by implication, and one similar to the bodily pleasures of adult sexuality. He also remembered that this physiological pleasure came from feeling he was like a girl —not from, say, some tactile or esthetic quality of the clothing itself. These two highlighted features comprise the irreducible core of the autogynephilic experience: pleasurable erotic arousal associated with the idea of being female.Other informants reported that they fi rst cross-dressed or engaged in cross-gender fantasies in early childhood but did not develop explicitly erotic feelings associated with these activities until puberty. This is the classic pattern described in much of the published literature (e.g., Whitam, 1997 ) .I fi rst became aware of my feelings at age 4, my earliest recollection. At that age, I loved getting in my mother’s closet and playing in her high heels. At age 5, I remember fantasizing I was a beautiful American Indian princess. At age 6, I remember secretly identifying with lead female characters in movies and cartoons. Ages 7–12 are fi lled with fantasies of me being a male hero: a cowboy, a patriot, a Roman soldier, and so on. By age 10 or so, stories of Christine Jorgensen were in the news. It fascinated me and I wished I could be her. I wished I was Natalie Wood; I wished I was Brenda Starr. At age 12, I picked up a copy of one of my dad’s adult papers, containing pictures of cute, partially clothed girls. On the cover was a photo of French actress Noelle Noblecourt, age 19, wearing a frock that was split at the sides so you could see her thighs. I stole the paper and kept it; I started wishing I was her. One night, I was rubbing myself on my mattress, fantasizing being a girl on an all-girl island where everyone wears out fi ts like Noelle’s. I imaginedAge of Onset of Cross-Gender Fantasies, Behaviors, and Associated Arousal myself as Noelle, my fi rst femme identity. As I rubbed myself, something happened: It was my fi rst ejaculation. Soon I was ejaculating several times a night, wishing I was a girl.(109)My fi rst cross-dressing experience was at age 5. When I was a child, prior to 11 years old, I had occasional interest in having things girls had—long hair at fi rst. Later, as I became more aware of other differences between boys and girls, I wanted the additional things I knew girls had. At age 11, I began cross-dressing regularly—the experience of seeing and imagining myself as a girl and later as a woman was nearly always erotic for me. (110) At 6 years old, I wanted to be a girl. I loved to go through the Sears catalogue and wish I could wear all the pretty clothes the little girls were wearing. Every night when I went to bed, I’d dream about how the world stopped and I could go into stores and pick out all the pretty clothes and wear them. I wore my mother’s clothes whenever I could without being caught. As a teenager, I would wear women’s panties and masturbate into them. (111) I wanted to be a girl since age 5 or 6. I dressed in my sister’s clothes and somehow got away with it. As I reached puberty, my frustration at not being able to do anything about the physical changes was overwhelming. Although my desires clearly did not begin as sexual, sex certainly became the focus. (112)The fi rst of the four narrative excerpts above is notable for its report of the development of male hero fantasies between ages 7 and 12 that temporarily pushed aside the informant’s earlier cross-gender fantasies. This example illustrates that the existence of occasional or even frequent cross-gender fantasies during childhood does not necessarily imply the existence of a strong and persistent cross-gender identity during childhood.One informant recalled the onset of cross-gender fantasies in later childhood, with associated erotic feelings developing just before or at puberty:The idea of “becoming a woman”—that is, being changed physically—was indeed a source of sexual stimulation for me. I remember this starting in my pre-teen years. Before that, I remember longing to be a girl, but without any distinctly sexual feelings; this I can recall to about age 9. (113)Two others recalled the onset of cross-gender fantasies or cross-dressing in childhood, but no associated erotic feelings until well into adulthood:When I cross-dressed, as a child and growing up, not once did I feel sexual arousal—that is, until I married and began having intercourse with the woman who is now my ex-wife.When I dressed, a sense of “rightness” overtook me, a feeling of much more completeness than existed while dressed in my male role. (114)I am almost 100% sure that my desire to be a woman is more established than autogynephilia, which I also recognize in myself. The former has been rather stable since the age of 6, whereas I don’t recall any remotely autogynephilic fantasies before the age of 20. (084)In interpreting histories like these, it is useful to recall that inaccurate denial of autogynephilic sexual arousal by persons who are known or presumed to beautogynephilic is a well-documented phenomenon (Blanchard et al., 1986 ; Zuckeret al., 2012 ) .The statement by the last informant that her desire to be a woman had been“rather stable since the age of 6” deserves comment. It seems quite possible that her desire to be a woman had continued in some form , perhaps continuously but more probably intermittently, until she submitted her narrative at age 32. Elsewhere in her narrative, she stated that she had then been living as a woman for 4 years, so she probably had a strong and persistent cross-gender (female) identity at that time.I would conjecture (but obviously cannot know) that she probably did not have a strong and persistent cross-gender identity at age 6; for example, I doubt that she had yet taken a female name. If my conjecture is correct, her claim that her desire to be a woman had been “stable” over the intervening 26 years would constitute a signi fi cant exaggeration.One should not read too much into cross-gender wishes in early childhood. It is not uncommon for young boys to occasionally express the wish to be the opposite sex, but most boys who do so do not develop strong, persistent cross-gender identities in adulthood. Friedrich et al. ( 1991 ) observed that about 7% of 2-to-6-year-old boys and about 2% of 7-to-12-year-old boys had “talked about wanting to be the opposite sex” at least occasionally during the previous 6 months, according to their mothers or female caregivers. Friedrich et al. ( 1998 ) subsequently found that about 6% of 2-to-5-year-old boys and about 4% of 6-to-9-year-old boys had expressed the wish to be the opposite sex occasionally or more often during the previous 6 months.Goldman and Goldman ( 1982 ) observed that 8% of 5-year-old boys and 13% of 7-year-old boys from their North American sample would choose to be a girl rather than a boy. Studies of boys in the Netherlands and Belgium have revealed slightly higher fi gures: Friedrich, Sandfort, Oostveen and Cohen-Kettenis ( 2000 ) observed that, in two different groups of Dutch children, about 10% of 2-to-6-year-old boys and about 15% of 4-to-6-year-old boys had at least occasionally talked about wanting to be the opposite sex during the previous 6 months, according to reports by their mothers. In a study of Dutch and Belgian children, Sandfort and Cohen-Kettenis ( 2000 ) found that about 10% of 0-to-11-year-old boys (about three-quarters of whom were between 2 and 6 years old) had expressed the wish to be the opposite sex at least occasionally in the past 6 months. Many heterosexual cross-dressing men who have no desire to be women also retrospectively report cross-gender wishes during childhood: Buhrich and Beaumont ( 1981 ) found that 8% of American cross-dressers and 26% of Australian cross-dressers who reported no desire to be women had“often” wished to have been born a girl between ages 6 and 12 years.Wishing at times to be a girl, however, is not the same as having a strong and persistent cross-gender (female) identity. Strong, persistent cross-gender identities usually develop many years or decades after the onset of erotic cross-dressing in nonhomosexual men and are preceded by episodes of complete cross-dressing, public self-presentation as a woman, and adopting a feminine name (Docter, 1988 ) . The last of these is “the most explicit statement that a cross-gender identity has emerged”(Docter, 1988 , p. 209). Based on his studies of nonhomosexual MtF transsexualsand other nonhomosexual cross-dressing men, Docter observed that:Among our subjects, 79% did not appear in public cross dressed prior to age 20; at that time, most of the subjects had already had several years of experience with cross dressing.The average number of years of practice with cross dressing prior to owning a full feminine out fi t was 15. The average number of years of practice with cross dressing prior to adoption of a feminine name was 21. Again, we have factual evidence indicative of the considerable time required for the development of the cross-gender identity. (p. 209) Boys who are destined to be nonhomosexual or autogynephilic MtF transsexuals often experience episodic, unsustained cross-gender wishes and fantasies in early childhood but rarely, if ever, develop strong, persistent cross-gender identities that can act as the driving force for a decision to seek or undergo sex reassignment until they reach young adulthood. In contrast, boys who are destined to be homosexual MtF transsexuals usually experience sustained cross-gender wishes and fantasies in early childhood and often meet full diagnostic criteria for GID in childhood; their adult transsexualism is often merely a continuation of their childhood GID (Cohen-Kettenis & Pfäf fl in, 2003 ) . Childhood cross-gender wishes and fantasies in boys who are destined to be autogynephilic MtF transsexuals are important primarily because they constitute one of the earliest indications of an autogynephilic sexualorientation; I will discuss this concept in detail in Chap. 10 .Many boys without known gender identity issues sometimes play with traditional girl’s toys during early childhood, and some express a preference for girls rather than boys as friends or playmates or occasionally take female roles in fantasy play.Friedrich et al. ( 1991 ) observed that about 63% of 2-to-6-year-old boys and about 31% of 7-to-12-year-old boys had played with girl’s toys at least occasionally during the previous 6 months, according to their mothers or female caregivers. Friedrich et al. ( 1998 ) similarly found that about 57% of 2-to-5-year-old boys and about 55%of 6-to-9-year-old boys had played with girl’s toys occasionally or more often during the previous 6 months. Sandfort and Cohen-Kettenis ( 2000 ) reported that about 60%of 0-to-11-year-old boys (most between ages 2 and 6 years) in the Netherlands and Belgium had played with girl’s toys at least occasionally during the past 6 months.Goldman and Goldman ( 1982 ) observed that 23% of 5-year-old boys and 32% of 7-year-old boys from a North American sample would choose a girl rather than a boyas a friend. Several studies (Friedrich et al., 1991, 1998 ; Sandfort & Cohen-Kettenis,2000 ) have demonstrated that between 17% and 20% of boys at least occasionally“pretend to be the opposite sex while playing” during early childhood.There is disagreement in the scienti fi c literature about whether the childhood behaviors and interests of autogynephilic transsexuals are usually male typical—which would include the possibility of at least occasional play with girl’s toys or choice of female friends or female roles in fantasy play, as described above—orwhether the behaviors and interests of autogynephilic transsexuals are sometimes oroften female typical. Observations by some researchers (e.g., Blanchard, 1990 ;Whitam, 1987, 1997 ) support the former point of view, but observations by other investigators support the latter. For example, Buhrich and McConaghy ( 1977a ) found that most members of a sample of 12 MtF transsexuals with a history of fetishistic cross-dressing reported that, during childhood, they avoided rough-and-tumble play, preferred girls’ company and games, and had been called “sissy” at school.Observations by Doorn et al. ( 1994 ) provide the strongest support for the idea that many late-onset MtF transsexuals (LOTs; most of whom are nonhomosexual and putatively autogynephilic) and even some transvestites (TVs) display female-typical preferences in childhood. Note that all of Doorn et al.’s data concerning childhood cross-gender behaviors involved informants’preferences , not actualbehaviors (i.e., “preference for female toys,” rather than “usually played with female toys”). Doorn et al. found that roughly one-quarter to one-third of LOTs reported that they preferred female-typical toys and games and female playmates during childhood and that roughly 15% of TVs reported that they preferred female playmates (p. 191); these fi gures were substantially higher than those reported by male control subjects. Additional percentages of LOTs and TVs reported combinations of female-typical and male-typical preferences in childhood. Doorn et al. argued that the higher than expected prevalence of self-reported female-typical preferences during childhood in these groups required a reevaluation of Docter’s ( 1988 ) theory about the late-life development of cross-gender identities in LOTs and TVs: The major fi nding is that LOTs and, to a lesser degree, TVs show much more feminine behavior in their early years than expected. Doctor’s [sic] theory is therefore only applicable to a small proportion of the LOTs and to most, but clearly not all TVs. Many of the LOTs and an important proportion of the TVs show signs of clearly developing feminine gender identity aspects in early childhood. (p. 196)Once again, I would note that Doorn et al.’s informants reported more female-typical preferences than expected—not necessarily more female-typical behaviors.A crucial issue in interpreting the Doorn et al. ( 1994 ) data is whether the retrospective reports by late-onset MtF transsexuals and transvestites concerning female-typical preferences in childhood are accurate or not. One should bear in mind that Walworth ( 1997 ) found that “preferring girls’ games and toys as a child” (p. 359) was one of the most frequent areas in which MtF transsexuals reported having lied to or misled their psychotherapists. Moreover, Blanchard, Clemmensen, et al. ( 1985 ) observed a signi fi cant positive correlation between socially desirable response style and self-reports of female-typical interests and behaviors during childhood in a group of heterosexual male gender patients. Finally, as previously noted in Chap. 3 ,many experienced clinicians (e.g., Bancroft, 1972 ; Fisk, 1974 ; Lukianowicz, 1959 ;Sørensen & Hertoft, 1980 ) have observed that MtF transsexuals often distort their histories to make them conform more closely to accepted stereotypes about MtFtranssexualism. Consequently, I believe that both the data and the conclusions reported by Doorn et al. should be interpreted with a high degree of skepticism. One possible explanation of the data is that many of the LOT and TV participants whoreported female-typical preferences in childhood might have displayed behaviors that were far more male typical than their recalled preferences would imply.In the current study, most informants who described their gender expression in childhood or adulthood denied effeminacy or female-typical interests or behaviors.There were some clear exceptions, however.Several informants reported that their childhood interests and behaviors had been male typical and that they had never been effeminate. Here are some representative accounts:As a child, riding my bike and playing with robots and guns and blowing up toy cars was more interesting to me than playing with dolls and dress-ups. Clothes and fashion never really interested me. (004)I was never effeminate. I wasn’t into dolls or girl’s play, and I enjoyed sport and was okay, if not good, at it. I liked music and drawing and collecting and gemstones and many non-gender-speci fi c things, too. (115)I was never effeminate, although I often wished I was in order to “validate” my desire to be a woman. As a young male, I was an athlete, served in the military, and became a husband and father. (110)Other informants reported that, although most of their interests and behaviors were male typical, they felt different from other boys in certain ways, especially in their lack of interest in or aptitude for team sports:Growing up, I never fi t in well with other boys and was not into sports or many other boyish things. But at the same time, I also preferred male toys like cars, guns, trains, etc. I was not confused about my gender. (023)I was not successfully masculine. In a village culture that de fi ned boyhood around baseball, I was hopeless at hitting, throwing, and catching. But I did try to be a boy, constructing my alternative masculinity around the outdoors in the woods surrounding the village, water-skiing, cross-country running, and becoming cadet lieutenant-colonel at the military high school I attended. (116)It is surprising that a boy who became cadet lieutenant-colonel at his military high school and was an avid water-skier and cross-country runner would conclude he was “not successfully masculine” simply because he was not pro fi cient at baseball.Green ( 2008 ) observed that MtF transsexuals sometimes hold stereotyped views of masculinity and femininity and are apt to conclude that, if they deviate from the masculine stereotype in any way, they cannot really be men. Green gave the example of a gender dysphoric patient who concluded he was transsexual in part because he was not interested in cars and football. Although Green makes an important point, another explanation might be that autogynephilic men who are unremarkably masculine but experience a strong and seemingly inexplicable desire to be female might be eager to fi nd evidence, however insubstantial, of psychological femininity or unmasculinity that would help them make sense of their cross-gender wishes.Other informants’ narratives discussed only their adult interests and behaviors, which they usually described as male typical:I have an advanced degree in chemistry and have led a successful life as a male. I grew up as a normal male and I played a wide range of sports in both high school and college. I still enjoy outdoor activities and lead a rather active life. (075)I am a 49-year-old who has been on and off hormones many times. I am the classic male: Naval Academy, US Marine Corps, weightlifter, etc. (117)I am a 47-year-old male, athletic and muscularly built. I played college sports. I am an avid outdoorsman and love to hunt and fi sh. (105)One informant observed that she, like other MtF transsexuals of her acquaintance, had made typically masculine occupational choices:I might have had thoughts of being a girl at a very young age, but that didn’t keep me from being a very good athlete and later a Navy pilot. I personally know 3 fi ghter pilots other than myself who are postoperative transsexuals. My roommate is a 64-year-old postop who was once a semi-pro baseball player and has a doctorate in chemistry. (118)A few informants reported a combination of male- and female-typical interests and behaviors during childhood:I had friends of both sexes. I would have been a tomboy if I was a girl. My sister was my best friend, and we played with dolls and girlish fantasy games, but I also played cowboys and softball and ran around the badlands with my boy friends. (119)In my early childhood and when I fi rst went to school, I preferred the company of girls and played “girly” games regularly with neighbors and my female cousins. I liked dolls and although I never had anything much more than a teddy myself, I used to play with them, especially in bed. After a couple of years of primary school, I was sent to an all-boys school.I learned to act the part eventually, never showing my feminine side at school or in the company of boys. It became dif fi cult for me to play with girls in this environment and I concentrated my creative side on model railways and airplanes alone. I hated sports and did my best to avoid rough playground games. Instead I concentrated on softer activities such as swimming, chess, and painting. (120)Although these histories do mention a few feminine interests and behaviors, they seem otherwise ordinary in most respects and similar to what many men without gender dysphoria might report.A few informants described primarily female-typical interests and behaviors in childhood, although their narratives did not state whether these persisted into adolescence or adulthood:I do not conform to the portrayal of standard characteristics of autogynephiles, as I was feminine as a child. (121)I didn’t fi t in with boys. I loathed sports and fi ghting or war-related role playing. I was quite drawn to trying on my mother’s and sister’s things, including clothes, makeup, perfume, and jewelry. My favorite toys were all my sisters’—the dolls and the easy bake oven. (122) Throughout my childhood, I always engaged in behaviors and activities which have been considered feminine. All of my friends were female up until about the age of ten, when pressure from peer groups caused me to branch out. (095)At a very young age, I would play pretend games and hide and go seek with neighborhood girls my age. I also had a couple of dolls as a young child. (080)I always preferred dolls and frilly things to the toys my parents wanted to buy me. When I was really small, 4–6 years old, I would love to go to my grandparents’ house and I would play with the dolls she had. She also had a small sewing machine that I would try to use.(089)Another informant described some female-typical interests and behaviors in passing, without saying whether or not they were representative of her ordinary day-today childhood experiences:I look back on my past, when I was fi ve and wearing perfume, or making pretty necklaces out of colored beads, or arranging fl owers, or when I was 7 and volunteering to play “Mother Goose” in the school play. (123)In my clinical practice, I not uncommonly elicit histories like these from nonhomosexual gender dysphoric male patients. In many cases, the feminine behaviors in question turn out to be a few isolated and unrepresentative episodes (e.g., “For a time my closest playmate was a girl”—for 2 months one summer; “When I was 6, I used to play with dolls”—on three or four separate occasions). These isolated episodes of feminine behavior nevertheless feel quite meaningful to the men who experienced them. I almost never get the sense that these patients are trying to mislead me by portraying these childhood episodes as more representative than they genuinely are. Instead, I believe that these patients are desperately trying to make sense of their powerful cross-gender wishes and are grasping at straws in an effort to fi nd evidence of childhood femininity that might help to explain their adult feelings.Nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals rarely choose occupations that are typically preferred by women; their career choices are usually unremarkably masculine. As Whitam ( 1987 ) observed, “Heterosexual transvestites and trans-sexuals [sic] tend to have traditionally masculine occupations such as engineer, mechanic, salesman, or produce manager” (p. 198). The limited data provided by the transsexual informants was generally consistent with this observation.Only 24 (9.6%) of the 249 transsexual informants reported their occupation.Although these 24 informants cannot be assumed to constitute a representative sample, it is notable that most of them reported occupations preferred by men more than by women. The reported occupations, with the number of informants reporting each, were:• 4 physicians (1 psychiatrist, 1 surgeon, 2 unspeci fi ed)•4 military service members (1 Marine, 1 Navy pilot, 1 unspecified Navy,1 unspeci fi ed)• 3 computer professionals (2 software developers, 1 programmer)• 3 engineers (1 electrical, 1 mechanical, 1 unspeci fi ed)• 2 business managers• 2 fi re fi ghters• 1 airline pilot• 1 attorney• 1 experimental psychologist• 1 truck driver• 1 factory worker• 1 medical technologistLippa ( )provided gender preference data for 50 different occupations,including 8 of the 12 listed above. Fourteen of the 24 informants reported occupations that men prefer signi fi cantly more than women according to Lippa’s data (military service member, computer professional, engineer, business manager, airline pilot, and attorney). Four of the 24 reported an occupation that men and women prefer about equally (physician). Only 1 reported an occupation that women prefer signi fi cantly more than men (psychologist). The remaining 5 informants reported an occupation not listed by Lippa, but 3 of these—the 2 fi re fi ghters and 1 truck driver—chose occupations that Govier and Feldman ( 1999 ) described as male typical. Eight of the 24 informants—the engineers, military service members, and pilot—reported occupations that were among the fi ve most strongly preferred by men over women, according to Lippa’s data.Why do so many autogynephilic transsexuals decide to pursue male-typicaloccupations? Brown ( 1988 ) proposed that some MtF transsexuals go through a“hypermasculine phase of transsexual development” (p. 527), during which they choose stereotypically masculine or hypermasculine occupations (e.g., military service) in a last-ditch attempt to suppress or eliminate their feminine personality traits.This could account, at least in part, for the male-typical occupations that many nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals choose. Some MtF transsexuals would probably be inclined to offer this socially acceptable explanation to their therapists—and some therapists would probably uncritically accept it. But a more parsimonious and more plausible explanation—albeit a less socially acceptable one—is that nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals choose male-typical occupations primarily because they genuinely prefer them. For example, I have heard too many MtF transsexuals describe with relish their enjoyment of fi ring automatic weapons, blowing things up during demolition training, practicing hand-to-hand combat skills, and fl ying jet fi ghters inreal or simulated combat to believe that they chose military service primarily to suppress their intrinsic femininity. In my experience, the occupational choices of nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals are at least as male typical as those of nontranssexual men. The occupations of the last 10 nonhomosexual MtF clients I have seen in my practice included 3 information technology professionals, 2 aircraft assembly technicians, 1 physicist, 1 security guard, 1 shipyard worker, 1 loss-recovery specialist, and 1 manufacturer’s representative in hardware sales.As noted earlier, the description of pretransition MtF transsexuals as “women trapped in men’s bodies” connotes a particular developmental history: It implies that MtF transsexuals will have developed the same psychological and behavioral characteristics that are typical of natal women. For rhetorical purposes, I have sometimes described autogynephilic transsexuals as “men trapped in men’s bodies”(Lawrence, 1998 ) , which connotes a different developmental history: It implies that autogynephilic transsexuals will have developed psychological and behavioral characteristics that are typical of other heterosexual men, except in those areas that re fl ect their autogynephilic sexual orientations. Many informants spontaneously commented on the applicability of either the original trope or my counter-trope.Five informants invoked the original trope or something close to it. Three of them provided little or no explanation or quali fi cation:I always felt like a girl trapped in a man’s body. (124)I wanted to feel a vagina between my legs as I masturbated instead of a penis. I view this as a supremely normal thought for a girl trapped in the body of a male. (125) I have not always felt like a woman trapped in a man’s body: It is only now starting to feel close to that. (126)Two other informants who also invoked the original trope offered longer, more complicated explanations of their feelings. I will present excerpts from their narrativesin Chap. 10 .Four informants thought that my revised version of the trope described them accurately; here are two of their comments:I now realize that I am a “man trapped inside a man’s body.” (014)For me, there’s a strong sexual compulsion to look female. I am a man trapped in a man’s body. (127)Nine other informants rejected the original description without proposing an alternative. Here are a few representative examples of their comments: I have never felt like a woman trapped in a male body. (128)I have never regarded myself as a “woman trapped in a man’s body.” (129) I don’t really feel like a woman trapped in a man’s body. (108)Two others who rejected the original trope distinguished between the belief that one is a woman and the desire to be a woman; the latter was what they experienced.I never felt like I was “a woman trapped in a man’s body” but instead just wished I were a girl. (130)The best phrase to describe my belief about myself is that “I desire (or need) to be a woman with all my heart, in every way,” as opposed to feeling “I have always been a woman.” (042) The distinction that the last two informants made is important but is one that autogynephilic transsexuals too often fail to make.Yet another informant poignantly expressed her doubts about the accuracy of the original description in her answer to a rhetorical question:I really want to be a woman with breasts and a vagina. I guess I’ll have to accept everything else that goes with it. Is this the same as feeling like I am a “woman trapped in a man’s body”? Possibly not. (068)Nine other informants provided their own variations on the original trope; some of the more instructive ones are presented below. Two informants described themselves as lesbians trapped in men’s bodies:I feel like I am a lesbian trapped in a man’s body, since I have intense sexual desires for women and also want to be a woman myself. (131)I knew I was a lesbian trapped in a male body by the time I was 13. (132) Presumably the implication here was that the informants felt like typical women except that they were attracted to females. Other informants provided their own unique descriptive variations:Frankly, most of us are not far from being men trapped in men’s bodies. I would tweak that a bit and suggest maybe tomboys trapped in men’s bodies. (025)I do not feel as if I am a woman trapped in a man’s body. Rather, I have always felt more of a hermaphrodite. I am neither solely male nor female, but both. (022) Still other informants stated or implied that the “wrong body” metaphor was indeed applicable to them, even if the original trope was not:I have had the persistent feeling that I am trapped in the wrong body, that the gentleness of my mind and spirit and my creative nature could never be free in this male body. (095) I’ve very rarely felt like a “woman trapped in a man’s body,” but I do feel like I should be a woman, and there is an erotic component to that feeling. (067)I want to become what I have so deeply wished to be: a human in a female body. (081) Two informants admitted that they considered it prudent to at least appear to personify the original trope, whether or not it was genuinely accurate: I am conducting myself like the standard vanilla “woman trapped in a man’s body,” and the prospect of my carrying out a successful transition, including changing gender in my present job, seems to be good. (047)My “girl next door” image is simply a ploy for minimizing the impact of my intended transition and for winning support by appearing to be a genuine case of a “girl in a man’s body.” (053)I consider the informants’ overall degree of skepticism about the original trope to be an encouraging sign. In my opinion, there is an off-putting hubris about autogynephilic transsexuals who describe themselves as women in men’s bodies. We have not been raised as women, we have never experienced female physiology or embodiment, and we have bene fi tted from male privilege throughout our entire lives; to assert that we are, in effect, women like any other natal women seems to me to represent both lack of insight and remarkable insensitivity. Before undergoing sex reassignment, we autogynephilic transsexuals are not women: We are only men who want to become women. If we live as women and attempt to conduct ourselves recognizably as women, I believe we earn the right to call ourselves women, but we should nevertheless be quick to acknowledge that our womanhood is atypical. In short, it behooves us to display and feel a little humility. We autogynephilic transsexuals generally choose other women as partners (if we fi nd partners at all) and often live our posttransition lives, by choice or necessity, primarily in the company of other women. If we claim to be other than what we truly are, we risk alienating the women upon whom we are likely to depend for friendship, support, love—and ongoing education in how to better emulate them.Men’s sexual orientations tend to be stable over the course of their lives. If autogynephilia is a sexual orientation, then one would predict that its manifestations—sexual arousal from, attraction to, and love for the idea or reality of resembling a female—would continue over the life course for most or all autogynephilic transsexuals, including after SRS.Many transsexual and transgender persons who acknowledge a history of autogynephilic arousal report that their autogynephilic feelings have continued throughout their lives; others, however, state that their autogynephilic feelings have wanedor disappeared. Nuttbrock, Bockting, Mason, et al. ( 2011 ) examined one form of autogynephilia, transvestic fetishism (TF), in a large group of MtF transgender participants. Among 58 nominally heterosexual participants who acknowledged a history of TF, 49 (84%) reported that their TF was “lifecourse persistent”; among nominally bisexual participants who acknowledged TF, however, only 43 (66%) reported lifecourse persistent TF. Most participants in both groups appeared to have been in their 40s or 50s when surveyed. In a survey of 232 MtF transsexuals who had completed SRS and were mostly nonhomosexual, I observed that 84% of participants reported having experienced one or more episodes of autogynephilic arousal before SRS but only 44% reported having done so after SRS (Lawrence,2005 ) . In interpreting these fi gures, it is important to remember that autogynephilicarousal is probably greatly underreported, for the reasons explained in Chap. 1 .In the current study, many informants stated that they had continued to experience autogynephilic arousal throughout their lives, including after SRS. There were exceptions, but they were uncommon.Many informants unequivocally stated that their experience of autogynephilic arousal had been a lifelong phenomenon.I am in my 60s. I have suffered with autogynephilia since I fi rst became aware of my feelings at age 4. Cross-dressing still arouses me. (109)I am a 52-year-old heterosexual male. From about age 12 or 13, the idea of being able to wear women’s clothes and present and live as a woman was an amazing sexual turn-on, and it remains so to this day. (133)I’ve been experiencing autogynephilia since the fi rst time that I tried on my mother’s nightgowns and wigs. I’m now a pre-op transsexual taking hormones, and nothing has changed.As a man, I had to fantasize that I was a woman to get excited sexually. Now, as a female, I get aroused at times by the thought of just being female. (134)At age 50, the erotic aspects of my condition have subsided somewhat. I am still aroused by the thought of having a female body, but the requirement to masturbate has all but disappeared. (005)I am in my 60s. Imagining myself a woman has always been sensually pleasurable, whether accompanied by climax or not. I would like to say the arousal and pleasure are now gone or irrelevant, but I would be lying. There is still deep pleasure that is sexual and compelling.There is an imagination of myself as the object of my own desire. (135)In my original solicitation, I speci fi cally invited potential informants to comment on whether autogynephilic arousal had continued after SRS. Several informants addressed this issue, and most who did stated that autogynephilic erotic arousal had indeed continued following SRS:Wearing women’s clothing and feminizing my body has always been sexually exciting for me, even after SRS. It was and still is sexually exciting for me to have female body functions. (061)I am 7 months postoperative. I was extremely autogynephilic. My fantasies were of my feminization, which still continue, despite not having testosterone. (136) I am 6 months postop now, and at 46 years old, still get sexually aroused when I think of the entire transformation that I just completed. ( 132)I am a 41-year-old postoperative transsexual. I received my surgery about 2 years ago. I admit that I have many sexual fantasies about being female and having a female body, a lifelong dream for me. I am not ashamed that I am sexually turned on by being female now. (069) I am a 31-year-old MtF post-op. After starting hormone therapy and living in female role for a while, the fantasies continued like they always had, only now there was more satisfaction from having them. (072)I am nearly 4 years post-op. The concept of autogynephilia helped provide an understanding of my behavior. Sex is a powerful force for some of us, and certainly me. Even now, I embrace my autogynephilic fantasies as part of my sexuality, which is alive and very well. (079)Others, however, reported that feelings of autogynephilic erotic arousal had become less frequent or intense after SRS, although they still occurred periodically.Several years after SRS, I still have erotic feelings about being female, although they are not nearly so compelling as in the old days. But sometimes I’ll look in the mirror as I head out to work and feel a fl ush of excitement over who I have become. (059) I underwent SRS 22 years ago. Preoperatively, I had some sexual arousal when wearing women’s clothes; postoperatively, I have felt arousal in the vulva when wearing lingerie.Preoperatively, when I was fantasizing myself to be a woman with a vagina, I was strongly sexually aroused and got an orgasm. Most of the preoperative feelings of arousal stopped gradually after SRS. The urges diminished in intensity but are still present. (137) There have been times when I was totally turned on by the whole experience of becoming a woman, but mainly it has been more a sense of happiness and peace, as I can now relax and be myself. But I have had moments where I have had a total orgasmic rush because of the transformation in myself and my body. In self-pleasuring, I do think about what I have done at times and that does sexually excite me, I must admit. (086)I fi rst fantasized about being a girl at an early age. In my teens, I behaved like a typical transvestite, cross-dressing and masturbating in private. I also had the usual forced feminization fantasies, so typical of transvestites, and now I realize, transsexuals, too. Now, a year postop at age 41, I feel great about it all. Yet, I am far from a typical woman. Sexually, I still get aroused by forced feminization fantasies and being the woman among men. (115) I will say more about forced feminization fantasies, which were mentioned by thelast informant, in Chap. 9 .Some informants reported that arousal to the thought or image of being female continued to occur in the context of masturbation later in life and that autogynephilic fantasies were sometimes necessary for orgasm after SRS:During puberty, I began to fantasize about physically being a girl, and the thought of this aroused me. I went full-time at age 41 and had SRS at age 43. Even though I only rarely masturbate now, I typically do so while looking at myself in the mirror. I get off on my appearance. (096)I’m 3 years postoperative. Many of my sexual fantasies as a kid were feminization fantasies.I’m still wired the same way. I very often need those fantasies to achieve orgasm. (050) One informant observed that during and after sex reassignment, engaging in and observing the results of self-feminization resulted in a feeling of “warmth” that was hard to distinguish from the feeling of sexual arousal:I am 46 years old, 23 years postoperative. The occasion of my fi rst estrogen injection was a real high. I was jubilant and warm all over. I don’t think that it was entirely hormonal.The fi rst week after surgery was almost manic in its happiness. Standing naked in front of a mirror was all that was necessary to renew the warmth that I felt. I have been sexually aroused since surgery and would readily admit that the sensation is indistinguishable from the above mentioned warmth. (138)The observation that autogynephilic arousal sometimes, perhaps often, persists after SRS is of theoretical interest for at least two reasons. First, this observation supports—or is at least consistent with—the theory that autogynephilia is (or resembles) a sexual orientation. Second, this observation calls into question an alternative explanation of autogynephilia that has been proposed by some critics of Blanchard’stheory. This explanation asserts that autogynephilia is merely an epiphenomenon that emerges when males who have female gender identities and incongruent male bodies fantasize about having female bodies in order to have satisfying sexual experiences. Serano ( 2010 ) summarized this explanation: It makes sense that pretransition transsexuals (whose gender identity is discordant with their physical sex) might imagine themselves inhabiting the “right” body in their sexual fantasies and during their sexual experiences with other people. Indeed, critics of autogynephilia theory have argued that such sex embodiment fantasies appear to be an obvious coping mechanism for pretransition transsexuals. (p. 184)This alternative explanation implies, however, that autogynephilic arousal should disappear after hormone therapy and SRS have largely corrected the incongruence between embodiment and gender identity that MtF transsexuals experience. The observation that autogynephilic arousal sometimes, perhaps often, persists after SRS suggests that Serano’s explanation has limited, if any, ability to account for autogynephilic transsexualism.One informant reported that, after completion of SRS, she no longer experienced autogynephilic arousal. She submitted her narrative only 1 month after SRS, however.I am 47 years old, post-operative by 1 month, and clearly identify with the feelings you describe. I was aware that something like autogynephilia could be driving me and I made sure that I could function in a female body before committing to my surgery. I never have these kind of thoughts now. (139)To put her report in perspective, consider this narrative from an informant who described revisiting her earlier autogynephilic fantasies after undergoing SRS one year earlier:About a year after SRS, I realized that I’d lost touch with my sexuality and I wanted to reclaim it. I revisited old thoughts and fantasies and ultimately found that some of those fi res still burned. To make it happen, I had to “turn up the heat,” so to speak, and add intensity and violence to them. I still like to play with some of the old fantasies, but they are much more gentle and loving now. (059)In my professional practice, I have sometimes been consulted by autogynephilic transsexuals who have been unsuccessful in achieving orgasm after SRS. Among other things, I often advise these clients to experiment with using the same autogynephilic fantasies they found exciting prior to SRS. In many cases, resurrecting their earlier autogynephilic fantasies facilitates high levels of erotic arousal and eventually enables clients to achieve orgasm. In my fi rst review article on autogynephilia(Lawrence, 1998 ) , I recounted the case of a MtF transsexual friend of mine—now a prominent transsexual activist and opponent of the theory of autogynephilia—who had for a time been unable to achieve orgasm following SRS but eventually had succeeded with the help of fantasies of forced feminization.The narrative excerpts presented in this chapter demonstrate that, among autogynephilic transsexuals, autogynephilic erotic arousal not uncommonly begins in early childhood, usually is evident by the time of adolescence, and often continues throughout life, including after SRS. The excerpts also demonstrate that signi fi cant numbers of autogynephilic transsexuals report that they were not effeminate in childhood or adulthood but were instead unremarkably masculine in their interests and behaviors, even though they intensely desired to make their bodies resemble women’s bodies and live and be recognized as women.Are (or were) nearly all autogynephilic transsexuals unremarkably masculine men whose gender dysphoria was simply an outgrowth of their paraphilic desire to turn their bodies into facsimiles of women’s bodies? I believe that the narratives presented in this chapter support that interpretation, but they obviously cannot settle the issue. The value of these narratives does not lie in their ability to prove or disprove any theoretical proposition, but in their capacity to inform the decisions that severely gender dysphoric autogynephilic men face.The narratives in this chapter are important because they demonstrate that some autogynephilic transsexuals truly are, by their own account, “men trapped in men’s bodies”: unremarkably masculine men who experience the paraphilic wish to have women’s bodies—and who sometimes overcome the skepticism of the psychiatric establishment and many of their peers to successfully complete sex reassignmentand lead happier lives thereafter (Lawrence, 2003 ) . This information is likely to be of signi fi cant value to severely gender dysphoric autogynephilic men who are considering sex reassignment but feel deterred by the realization that they lack intrinsic femininity. These men may or may not eventually decide that sex reassignment is the best option available to them, but they will be in a better position to seriously consider this option if they realize that they are neither unique nor unusual—except, perhaps, in being unusually honest.Blanchard ( )described four distinct types or categories of autogynephilicfantasies and behaviors: transvestic (involving wearing women’s apparel), anatomic (involving possessing female anatomic features),physiologic(involving havingfemale physiologic functions), and behavioral (involving engaging in stereotypically feminine behavior). Yet another type is partial autogynephilia (Blanchard, 1993a,1993b ) —more precisely, partial anatomic autogynephilia—in which individuals desire to have only partial, not complete, female anatomy. The most prevalent type of partial autogynephilia involves the desire to have women’s breasts but no desire to have female genitals. It is debatable whether individuals who experience this type of partial autogynephilia should be considered transsexual; for purposes of this study, I have chosen to categorize them as nontranssexual.  includes several narrative excerpts by informants who experienced partial autogynephilia.The four types of autogynephilia that Blanchard described are conceptually useful but are not mutually exclusive. Some autogynephilic fantasies and behaviors could easily be classi fi ed under more than one category; for example, wearing a menstrual pad could be considered a manifestation of transvestic, behavioral, or physiologic autogynephilia, depending on its meaning to the person wearing it. The various types of autogynephilia also tend to co-occur; in particular, most individuals who experience anatomic autogynephilia also experience transvestic and behavioral autogynephilia. There are some notable exceptions to this pattern, however: A few informants who reported anatomic autogynephilia denied any desire to engage in female-typical behaviors or to live in a female-typical gender role.One particular type of behavioral autogynephilia, the act or fantasy of engaging in sexual activity with a man as a woman (a manifestation of autogynephilic interpersonal fantasy; Blanchard, 1989b ) is both highly prevalent and of particular theoretical and clinical signi fi cance; it will be considered separately in Chap. 8 .Transvestic autogynephilia is the most prevalent type of autogynephilia; almost all autogynephilic males probably experience it. Most informants acknowledged or alluded to transvestic autogynephilia in their narratives. The narrative excerpts in this section illustrate important general principles about transvestic autogynephilia, are noteworthy or unusual, or emphasize fetishistic elements not generally associated with MtF transsexualism.Several informants reported that they favored the kinds of apparel—lingerie, short skirts, high heels, etc.—that men generally fi nd sexually alluring when worn by women and that are stereotypically associated with transvestic fetishism. Here are three representative accounts:I am a transgender woman currently undergoing estrogen treatment. The fact that my body is feminizing is both a source of arousal and joy. My earlier “closet” phase involved the ritual of dressing as a normal woman: lingerie, nylons, dresses, shoes, etc., and applying full makeup and perfume and becoming so turned-on by my femme image in the mirror that the ritual often terminated in masturbation. (140)I am 58 years old and a preoperative MtF transsexual. I began crossdressing when I was about age 7. I was especially sexually aroused wearing girdles and nylon stockings. By my mid-20s, I had very strong desires to dress as a female on a full-time basis and to attract attention as a sexy, feminine woman. I have worn sexy feminine fashions, especially bras, lingerie, pantyhose, short dresses, lace fashions, mini-skirts, high heels, etc., at home since my mid-20s. Wearing sexy lingerie, a bra, a girdle with nylon stockings or sensuous sheer pantyhose, and high heels, imagining myself as a female, still often sexually arouses me, leading to an erection, masturbation, and orgasm. (141)I am a 44-year-old male. My counselor classi fi es me as a transsexual and has offered to refer me for hormone therapy. In high school, I cross-dressed in my mom’s clothes and can’t deny the arousal. In college and law school, under the guise of being a hippie, I wore long hair, women’s jeans, and women’s T-shirts. I married, and my cross-dressing became the secretive wearing of my wife’s clothes, always in front of a mirror. It was arousing.Presently I cross-dress on a limited basis, and it’s still arousing. When I am aroused by a woman, it feels good. But cross-dressing adds so much more: In front of a mirror, it gives the visual image of a woman in my presence, the touch of silk fabrics and feminine under-clothes, the touch of smooth skin, the smell of cosmetics, etc. It just feels so good to be dressed and acting as a woman that nothing else compares. (142)Note that the last two informants mentioned not only the appeal of the clothing itself but also the way in which wearing the clothing allowed them to see or imagine themselves as being female. This illustrates why it is useful to think of transvestism as “transvestic autogynephilia”: cross-dressing that facilitates the thought or image of oneself as a female. Blanchard ( 1991 ) explained: The rationale for subsuming transvestism under the heading of autogynephilia is that the transvestite’s excitement results from making himself, in some sense, more like a woman…. In fact, most transvestites do fantasize themselves as females when they are cross-dressing and may also act this out in their behavior. (pp. 237–238)One informant described this type of anatomic visualization as the rationale for her transvestism:In the case of cross-dressing, it was using the prop of the clothing to imagine a female body underneath that turned me on, not the clothing itself. (087)Another informant made the same point more explicitly, explaining that the greatest excitement associated with wearing women’s attire arose from the imagined anatomic features that certain items of women’s clothing implied (note: this informant had not undergone SRS):My interest is not in underwear and outerwear that are deemed by some to be sexually provocative (six inch heels, nylons and garter belts, low-cut blouses, etc.). No, it is the“form follows function” aspect of women’s clothes that excites me most. Thus “having” to wear a bra for supporting my breasts, or “having” to wear panties that have a closed crotch, in recognition of the fact that my penis has been removed and that I now have the external genitalia of a female. (143)Clinicians other than Blanchard have also observed that the associated mental image of oneself as a female is an essential aspect of transvestism. Levine ( 1993 ) commented thatI cannot ever recall speaking to or hearing about an adult cross-dresser who did not have a fantasy of himself as a female. I now assume that the cross-dressing and the autogynephilic fantasy are the external and internal manifestations of the same phenomenon. (p. 135) Money ( 1988 ) similarly explained that “Wearing women’s garments is, however, in all likelihood only a partial manifestation of a more extensive gender crosscoding from male to female that includes also the body image.” (p. 94).One informant who was especially aroused by wearing women’s panties early in her cross-dressing career reported that the scope of her erotic cross-dressing subsequently broadened to include other items of women’s attire:I have always found crossdressing extremely erotic and very sexually satisfying. It all started at age 15, when I discovered my mom’s panties. That was when I had my fi rst sexual experience. I never developed any type of normal sexual relationships with girls in my teens. I was more interested in what style of panties they were wearing or what I was going to wear when I got home from school. Panties were my obsession. By age 20, I probably had collected over 200 pairs of women’s panties. In my twenties, I began to acquire bras, nightgowns, nylons, and other types of lingerie. Next was women’s clothes, wigs, makeup, and heels. Every dress-up session always ended in a very intense masturbation session. It was like clockwork. I now have a huge collection of women’s clothing, makeup, lingerie, and jewelry. I am usually completely dressed in women’s clothes while I am at home. (080)Wearing speci fi c kinds of women’s footwear was a prominent element of transvestic autogynephilia for some informants. Two individuals favored high-heeled shoes:Your article on autogynephilia very accurately characterized the core experience of my life.As a 16-year-old, I tried on a tight shirtdress of my mother’s. The sexual excitement that resulted permanently altered my sexuality. My earliest fantasies simply involved being a cute little female with large breasts. This evolved over time into enormously detailed fantasies,which included taking showers as a woman (but wearing high heels) and different sorts of sexual intercourse. In my fantasies, I imagine the sensation of a man’s hands on my hips, pulling me down to make penetration deeper. I fi nd it hard to imagine sex any other way, with one exception—standing up, my skirt around my waist—and in both cases, with heels on. For quite some time, sex with women has required me to pretend that I’m the female being penetrated to achieve orgasm. I press my legs together and arch my feet as if I’ve got heels on. Frankly, I wish I were in her shoes—literally. (144)I feel so sexy in my high-heeled boots and skirt with my long red hair. I loved putting on makeup, doing my hair, and getting dressed. I just love heels. I am 6 feet tall, like all the runway models, with a size 9-1/2 women’s pump, and open toe strappy sandals are my favorite. Even though my age should call for a cooled-down version of attire, I much prefer the hotter, younger styles. I have been playing ice hockey for years, and my behind and long legs are really something to see. (145)The latter informant’s preference for “younger, hotter styles” rather than more age-appropriate attire is not unusual. Autogynephilic transsexuals are theorized to want to become facsimiles of the kinds of women to whom they are sexually attracted, so it is not surprising that most would prefer to resemble young, sexually desirable women and would be drawn to the attire that young women who wish to project a sexy image stereotypically favor.One informant had a special fondness for another particular type of women’s footwear, Keds tennis shoes:I remember fi nding my mother’s stockings and garters sometime around age 8 or 9, and that is when I started trying women’s clothes on. I found it to be exciting and sexually arousing.My wife understands that I wish that I was female and lets me buy and wear women’s clothing; for the most part I do it when I am alone. Sometimes it is a sexual thing and other times it is just because it feels good. I wear things like women’s sandals, Keds tennis shoes (I have found Keds very sexy since I was in third grade), panties, tops, pants, shorts, and bathing suits. (146) Other informants emphasized that wearing women’s clothing was not so much arousing for its own sake, or even for the female anatomy it implied, as for its ability to facilitate or necessitate female-typical behavior. Their reports could be interpreted as describing transvestic autogynephilia that occurred “in the service of”behavioral autogynephilia. The following narratives are illustrative: I began cross-dressing shortly after puberty in my older sister’s clothes. Later, I would occasionally borrow one of my wife’s dresses when she was out of town. I would always fantasize about women and assuming the role myself when dressed. And it was always an erotic experience. I have come to realize that for me, being a cross-dresser has not merely been the activity of a transvestite, but of a transsexual. The clothes themselves are but an adornment that allow me to take on the intended role. Just as “clothes make the man,” I feel they make the woman as well. A skirt or dress, because of its very construction, makes a woman vulnerable, which is a female attribute. (020)The restrictions imposed on me by wearing female clothes are also tremendously exciting—having to sit with my legs together when wearing a skirt. Trying to keep hold of the hem of a skirt or dress on a windy day. Trying to avoid a neighbor’s excitable little terrier causing a run in my pantyhose when he runs to greet me. (143) Here again, the point that comes through clearly is that transvestism represents transvestic autogynephilia: cross-dressing that contributes to or facilitates the thought or image of oneself as a woman.Heterosexual transvestites, who resemble autogynephilic transsexuals in many respects, often report that cross-dressing makes them feel relaxed or comfortable.In a survey of 33 heterosexual cross-dressers, Buhrich ( 1978 ) found that the most prevalent feelings his subjects described during cross-dressing were “comfortable, relaxed, at ease” (p. 147). Buhrich’s subjects reported that during adolescence, these feelings had been slightly more prevalent than sexual arousal; in later adulthood they were much more prevalent than sexual arousal. In the current study, several transsexual informants similarly reported that cross-dressing was not only sexually arousing but also made them feel comfortable or relaxed. Here are some representative narrative excerpts:When I reached adolescence, I started cross-dressing discretely and would get aroused and masturbate. After the sexual part of the experience, I would remain dressed as long as was safe and would feel comfortable and cozy. (056)I had a persistent desire to cross-dress and did so from as early as I can remember. It was interesting that, although I was excited to get dressed in female clothing, once dressed, I was always very relaxed and any emotional excitement subsided. (147) Since I told my wife that I cross-dress, it has stopped being sexually exciting. I still dress, but it is more a stress reliever now than a form of sexual arousal. To me it feels nice, relaxing, maybe thrilling, but not sexually so. (148)How should one interpret such reports of relaxation and comfort associated withcross-dressing? Blanchard was quoted (in Bloom, 2002 ) as expressing skepticism that nonhomosexual cross-dressing is genuinely relaxing:“Of course it’s not relaxing,” Blanchard says, with some heat. “Heels and makeup and a wig and a corset? It’s preposterous. Even women don’t fi nd that relaxing. Relaxing is a pair of sweatpants, clothing that doesn’t even feel like clothing. Crossdressers want to normalize this, to have it seen as relaxation.” (pp. 66–67)Docter ( 1988 ) was also skeptical of reports by heterosexual cross-dressers that habitual cross-dressing (e.g., underneath male clothing) is eventually experienced as relaxing or calming rather than sexually arousing:The experience most often reported by those who wear women’s clothing beneath their male clothes for extended periods of time is that of a calming effect. It may be that the experience of relaxation or calmness is a major reinforcer which reduces sexual tensions, thereby becoming reinforcing. The mediating events for such a response pattern are not understood if, in fact, this is what takes place. Another hypothesis would be that the mild sexual arousal that may accompany concealed fetishistic cross dressing is subjectively interpreted as calming despite what may be mild physiological arousal. (p. 117) Docter’s hypothesis is consistent with the observation by Blanchard et al. ( 1986 ) that nonhomosexual cross-dressing men who deny experiencing sexual arousal in association with cross-dressing nevertheless display physiological genital arousal when they listen to audio recordings describing cross-dressing scenarios.Yet another explanation of cross-dressing being experienced as comfortable or relaxing is suggested by Blanchard’s ( 1991 ) observation that “many men, after yearsof marriage, are less excited by their wives than they were initially but continue to be deeply attached to them” (p. 248). One can imagine such men saying—to recast the ideas expressed by the informants above—“Early in my marriage, I was very turned-on by my wife; nowadays I just feel relaxed and comfortable around her.”Longstanding romantic relationships with other people can be sources of relaxation and comfort after associated erotic excitement has diminished or disappeared; perhaps longstanding “relationships” with activities like cross-dressing or with one’s own feminized body can also be sources of relaxation and comfort after associated erotic excitement has declined or become less important.Anatomic AutogynephiliaBlanchard ( 1993a, 1993c ) observed that anatomic autogynephilia, especially sexual arousal to the thought or image of having female genitals, was the type of autogynephilia most closely associated with gender dysphoria and the desire for SRS.Several informants described feeling aroused by the fantasy or reality of having a feminized body or speci fi c elements thereof:Autogynephilia describes my sexual life. My sexual arousal and fantasies have always been about being transformed into a female. When I see a beautiful woman, I wish I had such a body. As I’ve grown older, the feeling has only gotten stronger. (149) It is self-sexual desire that has driven my fantasies and my desire to change my body. As my body has become more curvy, with breast development, redistribution of fat on my ass, and a noticeable feminization of my facial features, I have become more aroused daily. (076) Visualizing my body as having a female form is a primary source of sexual excitation.Viewing my fl at pubic area and bra is a regular part of sexual foreplay. For years I have applied various forms of pressure and wraps on the penis that limited erections and have contributed to a tiny fl accid shaft. It is now usually inverted into my body and held in place with moderate pressure from support-style panties. (150)Some informants emphasized that cross-dressing per se was less important than having female anatomic features:My fi rst experiences at age 13 involved masturbation. I was slightly fat at the time and would imagine myself to have larger breasts and push my penis up into my body cavity.Much later in my teens, I would masturbate while wearing women’s clothing, makeup, and other aids, while looking into the mirror and fantasizing about having a female body. In the case of cross-dressing, it was using the prop of the clothing to imagine a female body underneath that turned me on, not the clothing itself. Overall in my transition, the idea of changing has been incredibly exciting. The fi rst 6 months when my breasts were developing were great. I’d look in the mirror and it wouldn’t matter how small the change was, it’d cheer me up. And while I still could, I’d jerk off to my own naked re fl ection. A standard masturbation technique was to squat in front of the dresser mirror so that my penis was not visible in the re fl ection. Then I’d concentrate on that while I touched myself. It worked, and I liked the idea of fi nding my own body to be sexy. (087)Anatomic AutogynephiliaI am a 35-year-old biological male who has undergone therapy for gender dysphoria over the past 2 years. My fantasies are almost purely based on the physical elements of being female: having breasts, a curvy body, a big butt, a vagina, a pretty face, long hair, etc., and not so much based on clothing or activities. Once puberty hit and I was aroused by females, I always wanted to be like them. The thought of being like them was always very arousing.I remember when I began masturbating, using porn magazines or videos, I would fi nd myself thinking things about the women, like “I wish I were you. I wish my body was like yours.” And the more vividly I imagined that and the more I imagined myself as a woman, the more excited I became. That behavior has never left. (066)I’m 44 and scheduled for sex reassignment surgery in 3 months. I never really got into crossdressing. I did, however, from an early age fantasize about having breasts and a vagina and being accepted among women as a woman. I will admit that my initial transition did have a component of sexual desire, but it has faded, along with everything else sexual. My basic goal is to be able to fi t right into tight clothing and swimwear. And, I admit, urinating in the female manner is a major goal of my upcoming sex reassignment surgery. (151) I am anatomically autogynephilic. Since the age of 5 or 6, I have had dreams and fantasies of being turned into a girl. Occasionally, I would get off by putting on my mom’s, and later my ex-wife’s, nylons; but I never had any other thoughts of cross-dressing. I am considering surgery and have begun talking to my therapist and psychiatrist about it. (152) It was not unusual for informants to report that their most intense source of sexual arousal was imagining themselves having female genitals:I feel more asexual than anything, but I still must admit my greatest arousal comes from fantasizing or imitating having female genitalia. Even dressed to the hilt, if I cannot see or feel myself as a woman, with a woman’s anatomy, I feel more sad than aroused. (124) I have always felt vulva envy. To me, being a woman is to be [sic] a vulva between the thighs—nothing more, nothing less. The beauty of being a woman comes from the vulva and is in the vulva and only there. To wear the most beautiful clothes, to have a pretty face, to have breasts, round hips, can mean nothing to me in the absence of the vulva. When I have my vulva, I will feel beautiful enough to me, and to wear feminine clothes in public will be just a consequence of that. (153)Some informants reported that they experienced sexual arousal to the fantasy or reality of undergoing orchiectomy, penectomy, or complete SRS. In other words, the process of physical feminization was sexually arousing, not just the outcome of that process:I’ve always been turned on sexually by the idea of having a woman’s body. Finally my compulsion drove me to have an orchiectomy, which was perhaps the greatest thrill of my life. A girlfriend who is a medical student came with me to the procedure. I can’t tell you how thrilled and amazed I was when my testicles were removed and the process was described by my friend. It was sort of the ultimate forced feminization. (154) I remember reading, many years ago, about the case of the twin who lost his penis during circumcision and being tremendously envious and sexually excited. (155) I have always had highly charged erotic feelings associated with the development of female sex characteristics. I will have my sex reassignment surgery in about 6 months. At the moment I even have erotic fantasies derived from fi nally having my penis removed. (077) I have several fantasies I use to achieve orgasm. All are autogynephilic in one way or another. In one, I re-live my orchiectomy, albeit somewhat embellished by a more dominant group of women being the ones castrating me. My actual surgeon obliged that fantasysomewhat by acquiescing to my request that his female surgical assistant cut my spermatic cords. (156)The sexual stimulation of thinking of myself as a woman—that is me in a nutshell. Some of the sex games with the spouse involved pretend castration and forced feminization. The real desire, to have a vulva, is overpowering. Even the idea of the surgery process can arouse me. (157)When I was 14, I imagined lying down on the operating room table for my sex reassignment surgery. I also imagined, with horror, that I would become sexually aroused. How would I explain this? How could I even understand it myself? I didn’t know why, when I thought those thoughts, I became excited. (123)Two of the above informants mentioned forced feminization fantasies, which are extremely common in autogynephilic transsexuals. I will discuss these fantasies inChap. 9 .Other informants described the intense excitement they felt at seeing their bodies being feminized by hormone therapy:I’ve had all of the feelings associated with autogynephilia, from early childhood to today.I feel that I’m addicted to feminizing myself with hormones. I can’t seem to stop, because of the feelings I get from seeing myself change to a more female-looking body. I wish that I could stop at times, but the high I get from seeing the change is never ending. (158) I’ve been on hormones for 4 years now and have the usual physical developments, which I dearly love. My endocrinologist gives me my prescriptions and I love her performing physicals on my developing breasts and atrophying testicles and male organ. She always measures me, and I love to hear of the developments since my last visit with her. I am so mentally aroused as my breasts are measured. (159)As I observed in Chap. 1 , cross-gender identity and gender dysphoria seem tooperate as two sides of the same coin in many or most autogynephilic transsexuals.The autogynephilic erotic wish to have female-appearing genitals (a manifestation of cross-gender identity) is not uncommonly accompanied by dislike or disgust for one’s male genitals (a manifestation of gender dysphoria). Some informants reported that they had tried to damage or anesthetize their genitals or had attempted to castrate themselves because they disliked their male anatomy; sometimes these attempts were explicitly linked to an erotic desire to have female genitals:Changing into a woman was the dominant fantasy that I had even at early childhood. When I started to hear about sex change operations, I wanted one. I’d heard about horses being castrated by slowly tightening a strap of leather around their testicles. I tried to duplicate the effect. I gathered together rubber bands and wrapped them tightly around my testicles and penis. I even tried to hang myself by my genitals. (122)I remember wearing my older sister’s panties and being very disappointed that they didn’t seem to fi t me properly because of my genitals. I hate my male genitals. A couple of years ago, I tried to modify my genitals, but I had to stop and take myself to the hospital because of the bleeding. If I didn’t fear bleeding to death, I think that I would have removed my genitals before now. (160)I have always felt aroused by the fantasy of having a female body, with or without a partner.I fi nd clothes are of little help in the arousal if I cannot disassociate myself from the penis.Experimentation in desperation has made me fi nd ways to numb and damage my penis over the years. I confess that sex reassignment surgery to me is as much a sexual high as it is a completion of reality for my own identity physically. (161)Anatomic AutogynephiliaNote that the last informant made an explicit connection between anatomic autogynephilic arousal and her attempts to damage her penis.Anatomic Autogynephilia Without the Desire to Livein Cross-Gender RoleAs I discussed in Chap., some informants reported a desire to have femalegenitals—and usually other female anatomic features as well—but no strong inclination to live in a female-typical gender role. Conceptually, this could represent anatomic autogynephilia unaccompanied by signi fi cant transvestic or behavioral autogynephilia. Blanchard ( 1991 ) described this pattern in the case history of Philip, a patient who experienced anatomic autogynephilia but had never cross-dressed as an adult. Alternatively, persons who give such histories might actually experience signi fi cant transvestic and behavioral autogynephilia and prefer to live as women in an ideal world but conclude that cross-living would be unfeasible in their particular circumstances. Consequently, they might decide not only to forego cross-living but to disavow any desire for it. Instead, they might seek SRS (and sometimes additional physical feminization) but continue to live as men as a compromise solution.Based on the reports of several informants, the phenomenon of anatomic autogynephilia unaccompanied by the desire to live in a cross-gender role may be more prevalent than is generally assumed. Here are some representative narratives: I am a 30-year-old man, currently in therapy regarding my desires to become a female and on a hormonal regimen. My problem is that I want to go through the process, up to and including SRS, but afterwards continue living my life as a male, in a male role. I feel that I would be more comfortable living in that role. I am trying to explain this to my counselor, but I fear that she would reject me for the SRS part of transition if she really knew my goal.I don’t want any surgical enhancements to my body other than SRS. I would not want to transition fully, as I have no desire to live as a female. (162)I am 20 years old and in college. As long as I have been sexually aware, I have been aroused exclusively by the thought of myself having a female body—speci fi cally, a vulva and large breasts. My thoughts have been consumed by the possibility of having SRS and breast augmentation but continuing to live as a heterosexual male. It seems like the only way I could satisfy the only sexual feelings I have ever known. Since middle school, I have thought I might be a candidate for a sex change operation, but the thought of becoming a girl seemed both socially impossible and not necessarily desired. Unlike a number of autogynephiles, I have no history of cross-dressing. My arousal seems to be focused on having female anatomy. (014)I am 47 years old. For many years, I have wanted to have a female body, particularly breasts and a vulva. But I don’t want a female face, I don’t want to wear female clothes, and I don’t want to have a female lifestyle. Moreover, although I want a vulva with a cli-toris and outer and inner labia, I don’t want a vaginal canal or to have sexual intercourse like a woman. (163)I want genital modi fi cations but don’t want to become a woman. After the modi fi cations, I want to continue to live socially as a man. I do not like to use my penis to urinate, because I do not like to touch it and see it. I like to look at a woman urinating, with the secret hopeto be able to urinate like that one day myself. During masturbation, I take pleasure from imagining that I no longer have a penis but a pretty vulva. For me, my penis is useless and I want to remove it and the testicles and to replace them with a vulva. But I do not want to become a woman or live like a woman. (164)I have wanted to be female all the way back to the age of 6 or 7. I am 6 ¢ 4″ and 265 lbs., a little large to pass as a female. I love my job and could not transition without giving it up.I am also in a wonderful relationship with a woman, so I will probably do nothing more than cross-dress and continue the hormones I have been on for 12 years. But if she should pass before me, I do intend to seek SRS. The in fl exibility of the Standards of Care on this issue is unreasonable. They cannot see that, at least in my case, being a female living as a male makes sense. It would hurt no one, and yet it would complete me. As a result, if that day ever comes, I will be forced to go underground and fi nd a surgeon overseas and probably not one who will do the best job of SRS. (165)I feel arousal at the thought of having female genitalia. Since I was a child, I have had dreams about becoming female from the waist down. I try to will those thoughts away, but they keep resurfacing. I don’t want to live in the female role, and I am not attracted to men. I actually fantasize about lesbian sex with my wife. If it were possible, I would probably have genital surgery, but nothing else. Most men would feel sick at the thought of losing their penis and testicles, but I would actually feel a sense of relief. I hope the Standards of Care will change to allow for genital surgery based on a diagnosis of autogynephilia. (166)The last two informants were referring to the Standards of Care for Gender Identity Disorders (Meyer et al., 2001 ) —recently renamed the Standards of Care for the Health of Transsexual, Transgender, and Gender Nonconforming People (World Professional Association for Transgender Health [WPATH], 2011 ) —whichare widely viewed as authoritative. The Standards of Care specify that having “lived continuously for at least 12 months in the gender role that is congruent with [one’s]gender identity” (WPATH, 2011 , p. 21; the language in Meyer et al., 2001 , p. 25, is almost identical)—the so-called “real-life experience”—is a prerequisite for SRS.For persons who want to obtain female-appearing genitals through SRS, the gender role that is congruent with one’s gender identity is usually assumed to be something resembling a female-typical gender role, although the Standards of Care are not explicit on this point.A few informants reported, however, that they had managed to obtain SRS with little or no real-life experience in a female-typical gender role:I am a 28-year-old postoperative MtF transsexual. However, unlike the vast majority of postoperative transsexuals, I do not live in a full-time female role. I fi rst remember wanting to be female at a very early age, and the desire to become female continued as an obsession throughout my life. By my 20s, I was living a successful life as a male, with a profession and a well-paid career. My strong desire to become a woman continued, but the practical consequences of taking the conventional route for obtaining gender reassignment surgery would have been huge. I would have lost my job and would have found it hard to reestablish myself in my profession. Furthermore, there were some aspects of my male life (certain social interests, networks, etc.) that I preferred to retain. My overriding goal was not so much to live full-time as a female, but rather to acquire the physical characteristics of a female. Looking at the practical consequences, I felt that I should try to achieve my desire of undergoing physical feminization through a female hormone regimen and sex reassignment surgery. I achieved this goal without substantial dif fi culty. (167)Physiologic AutogynephiliaI underwent SRS in Thailand 4 months ago. I had a referral letter from my therapist for SRS, but there was something of an unspoken agreement that I had performed a full 1-year real-life experience, when in reality I did nothing more than dress in an androgynous manner for 3 or 4 months prior to SRS. My sexual fantasies and desires have always centered around having a vulva; I don’t recall any instances of female clothing ever arousing me.I never actively lived my life as a female. I remain “male” even now. I have a gender-neutral name. I am not taking testosterone or estrogen, and I live day-to-day as a male, although I am postoperative. I’ve been in contact with some other people who live as I do, but we are admittedly rare. I’ve found a small network of six post-op “male-to-female”persons who remain living as men postoperatively. (168)I will have more to say in Chap. 12 about men who experience severe genderdysphoria as a result of anatomic autogynephilia but do not want to live as women or do not feel that doing so would be feasible.Physiologic AutogynephiliaSexual arousal to the thought or image of having female physiologic functions (i.e., menstruation, pregnancy, or lactation) was fi rst mentioned by Hirschfeld ( 1918 ) , who described a case of “pregnancy transvestism” (“Schwangerschaftstransvestismus”; p. 168). Money ( 1988 ) also described transvestites for whom being a pregnant woman was a feminine ideal and who cross-dressed accordingly:She [sic] may have dozens, if not hundreds of photographs of herself in many different poses and out fi ts, to suit each occasion, including pregnancy, that is construed as womanly in her idealized conception of womanhood. (p. 95)Buhrich and McConaghy ( 1977b ) described the prevalence of fantasies (albeit not necessarily erotic ones) involving pregnancy and menstruation in small samples of MtF transsexuals and heterosexual cross-dressers. Most of the transsexual patients were probably homosexual, so their data are of less interest; but 3 of 35 transvestites fantasized about pregnancy and 1 fantasized about menstruation.Physiologic autogynephilia is probably the least prevalent type of autogynephilia, but several transsexual informants in the current study reported sexual fantasies involving all of these female physiologic functions:I’m 31 years old. When I was age 12 or 13, I was sexually aroused by wearing my sister’s clothes and later by my mother’s. As I became older, I wanted to be a woman full-time.Now, with one year to go before sex reassignment surgery, I want more than that. I have fantasies of breast feeding and getting pregnant or menstruating. (169) Wearing women’s clothing was about the least of my fantasies; being female and being made love to, made pregnant, and having children played prominent roles in my fantasies. (170) I’ve been on hormones now for almost 7 years. I’ve experienced arousal from the fantasy of having a woman’s body. I’ve also fantasized about having periods and cycles. I’ve imagined being pregnant and carrying my child, created with my special other’s seed deeply implanted inside my womb. Breast-feeding from my breast would be so heavenly. (171)Other informants emphasized particular aspects of female physiologic function; one informant was especially aroused by simulating menstruation:Wearing women’s clothing and feminizing my body has always been sexually exciting for me. Also, it was and still is sexually exciting for me to have female body functions. Before my sex reassignment surgery, I would pretend to menstruate by urinating in sanitary pads.I particularly enjoyed wearing the old-fashioned belted pads with long tabs. (061) Several informants were particularly aroused by the fantasy of being pregnant, with or without arousal to the fantasy of lactation or breastfeeding: I am a 38-year-old male. I have felt that I should be a woman since I was about 12. I fi nd the thought of having female genitalia very erotic. I have also fantasized about becoming pregnant. I used to do this by stuf fi ng a pillow under a dress or pair of jeans when I was a teenager. (172)I am transitioning at 46 and have been approved for sex reassignment surgery. I fantasized as a youth about being a teenage girl. I have been interested in breastfeeding and becoming pregnant and have been known to wear maternity clothing. I was never aroused by the idea of breastfeeding, just by the idea of becoming pregnant. (173)I underwent sex reassignment surgery 22 years ago. Preoperatively, when I was fantasizing myself to be a woman with a vagina, I was strongly sexually aroused and got an orgasm.Sometimes I imagined being pregnant, also with sexual arousal. (137) I consider myself a transsexual. Of my thousands of sexual experiences, both with women and masturbatory, probably 98% or more centered around autogynephilic themes. In one favorite fantasy, I am married to a feminist career woman. When she gets pregnant, we agree that we should split child care completely fairly. We also want the baby to be breastfed. We decide that I should start taking the appropriate hormones so I will be able to lac-tate. Because of the pressure of her work, I eventually take over all the nursing. We fi nd out that a procedure has been perfected whereby men can be made able to receive the couple’s fertilized egg, becoming pregnant. This is perfect for her career, and I willingly bear our second child. (174)Since puberty, I have been fi lled with powerful sexual feelings by the thought of dressing as a woman, having a woman’s body, being pregnant and nursing my baby, and being made love to as a woman. When my longing to be a woman becomes more than I can bear, I resort to masturbation, accompanied by fantasies of being a nursing mother. (175) Behavioral AutogynephiliaBehavioral autogynephilia—sexual arousal to the act or fantasy of engaging in stereotypically feminine behavior—was reported by many informants. The most prevalent behavioral autogynephilic fantasy of autogynephilic men is having sexualintercourse with a male partner as a woman (Blanchard, 1991 ) ; I will address thistopic separately in Chap. 8 . The following narrative examples involve other kinds of behavioral autogynephilia.Some informants reported that they found a wide range of stereotypically feminine behaviors arousing or appealing:I’m 53 and am confessing to what I have told so many fellow transsexuals: I am obsessed with the desire to be female. I have been sexually aroused by imagining using a feminineBehavioral Autogynephiliavoice, a feminine name, a feminine walk, tossing my hair, and opening my legs. My greatest moments of joy would be being told I am a true born woman, being told I am indeed one of the girls, or shopping for earrings or makeup in a shop where salesladies treated me as a normal woman. I love the idea of being accepted in women’s locker rooms, wearing a towel like a dress, wearing tampons, and urinating sitting down always. I dream of feeling and getting wet under panties or sometimes having hot waves or itching in this area. (176) Although I have not yet transitioned, the thought that I will someday do so is extremely exciting to me. My mind is constantly fi lled with sexually exciting thoughts of living a regular daily life as a woman: getting up in the morning and putting on women’s underwear and clothing; going to work at a traditional woman’s job; and having everyone who interacts with me believe I am a woman. (104)I am 58 years old and a preoperative MtF transsexual. By my mid-20s, I had very strong desires to dress as a female on a full-time basis. I use a variety of feminine hygiene products; these include panty-liners, maxi-pads, vaginal creams, tampons, etc. I have often wished I could have been a saleslady, selling feminine fashions at a Victoria’s Secret store, dressed as a woman and appearing to be a female at my job and in public. As a male, I have always been reluctant to make sexual advances; but, imagining myself as a female, I have wanted to be seductive, wear sexy, feminine fashions, and initiate physical intimacy, especially with other women. (141)Other informants reported that they found certain speci fi c feminine behaviors particularly arousing. Being obliged to sit to urinate or experiencing the inconvenience associated with seated urination was sometimes experienced as sexually arousing:I always wanted to have to sit on a toilet just like a woman. For years I would wear arrange-ments (so as not to touch or direct my penis) to simulate female urination. For example, I would wear the old-fashioned sanitary belt and pad, with the inner pad removed from the outer covering. The mesh covering would hold my penis in a downward position and produce a feminine stream. Also, I would void through pantyhose, or glue or tape my penis in a downward direction. For me, the greatest joy of my sex reassignment surgery is the constant reminder, every time I use the bathroom, that my maleness is gone. I am still sexually excited knowing that my urination process is just like a woman’s. (061) I fi nd the thought of becoming a woman and “having” to urinate as women do incredibly arousing. I thought that I was completely alone in fi nding this so arousing. (143) I empathize with the other writers who expressed excitement at going to the bathroom as a female. It’s intensely exciting to think of having no choice but to squat to urinate, and I’m very envious of those transsexuals who have attained the ability to experience female urination. In fact, I go out of my way to make sure I always use a stall to pee, even when it’s very inconvenient to do so. I consider this good practice for what I will have no choice but to do once I am female. (104)Some informants described even seemingly trivial female-typical activities and behaviors as having been sexually exciting:The idea of owning a girl’s bike has aroused me. (174)I de fi nitely have that erotic turn-on from thoughts of myself as a female, sometimes doing ordinary things: When I’m alone or driving, I sometimes fancy myself a middle-aged, attractive woman with a husband. (177)I had my fi rst experience at 15 with a 16-year-old girlfriend. Later with the same girlfriend I did some amateur feminization, including makeup and nails and the most amazing part: I got to take the non-hormone reminder pills from her birth control pills a few times. (178)Others were sexually excited by the idea of being with other women in a gym or locker room and feeling as though they genuinely belonged or deserved to be there.Here are two representative examples:I started hormones about 6 months ago and am awaiting approval for sex reassignment surgery. The most sexually exciting thing about being a woman is fi tting in as a woman and fi nally feeling I have a place to belong. I often fantasize being postoperative and being able to go to the gym and fi nally being able to shower with other women after having a nice workout. I am really turned on by the idea of going into the women’s shower and being surrounded by femaleness and of just being able to legally belong in the women’s restroom.What I’m saying is that to truly fi t in as another woman in these places means a great deal sexually to me. (089)After reading about autogynephilia, I think that I have come a long way in understanding myself and my motivations and desires. Most of my early masturbatory fantasies involved being transformed into a woman and living as a woman. I don’t really care about the clothes.It is about being able to see myself as a woman or at least with feminine qualities. My most enjoyable moments are imagining experiencing the more tame parts of life as a woman (e.g., playing golf, going to the women’s room or locker room, being able to shop for feminine clothes and shoes, and being seen as a woman.) The few times I have been in a women’s locker room have been overwhelming. The smell is so inspiring and alluring and the idea of being able to go there and be accepted as a woman—I certainly can understand why people go completely through the surgery. (107)It is important to emphasize that the narratives that mentioned wanting to be with other women in a gym or locker room never carried overtly voyeuristic overtones.What was arousing to the informants was being accepted as a woman by other women, not the opportunity to view nude or scantily clothed female bodies. In fact, one informant explained that experiencing the absence of male-typical feelings was what made the locker room scenario arousing:I am deeply aroused by the idea of being in a locker room with other women and having no male sexual feelings. (179)Another informant reported that shopping for women’s clothing was arousing primarily because it is something that only women normally do:I’ve often become aroused by wearing women’s clothing or thinking about having a woman’s body. The desire to become a woman or more like a woman has encouraged me to just walk right into a department store and into the women’s department and go right up to the lingerie counter and ask for what I want. Often when I’ve done this I’ve had a mixture of guilt, shame, and embarrassment and at the same time felt excited, proud, relieved, and happy. There are also times when it feels exhilarating, because I’m doing something that normally only a woman would do and start to feel like a woman shopping for her personal needs. (180)Yet another informant was especially sexually aroused by the fantasy of receiving a manicure in a beauty salon. She apparently found the actual event arousing, too—she implied that having undergone castration was all that prevented her from exhibiting an erection:When I fi rst read about autogynephilia, I knew instantly that it described me to a T. I was surprised that hormones and orchiectomy did not eliminate my sex drive. My erotic fantasies have evolved considerably over time. I have several fantasies I use to achieve orgasm.Behavioral AutogynephiliaAll are autogynephilic in one way or another. In one, I enjoy an afternoon being totally pampered at a beauty salon. The centerpiece is always a manicure. It’s kind of the sine qua non of feminine indulgence and is the one female affectation forbidden to men. Two months ago I felt con fi dent enough to fi nally indulge my manicure fetish. I felt I had earned a set of acrylics. Had I not been castrated it could have been a very awkward moment. But instead it was anticlimactically but perfectly normal. My manicurist gave no indication that she suspected I was anything but a woman. (156)The fantasy of being in a lesbian relationship with a woman was particularly appealing to another informant. She emphasized that what was exciting about this fantasy was not the opportunity to have sex with a woman but the opportunity to enact the role of a lesbian.I’m a 50-year-old MtF transsexual, in transition about 10 years. I fi t into the behavioral autogynephilic pattern. I am currently and always have been attracted to females. My conscious memory of gender dysphoria really began at age 13 with dressing up, which was always connected with sexual arousal and orgasm. This early fantasy was of being a girl and being with a girl. I had a real interest in reading lesbian love story paperbacks, which aroused me. I started to go out with girls at age 15 or 16. From 16 on up, I never really had any great desire to have intercourse, but I was really interested in a lesbian relationship, usually with a clothes fantasy. My sex life with my girlfriend from ages 16 to 18 was what I fantasized as a lesbian relationship. We never had intercourse: She was trying to be moral and I had no real interest in intercourse. (181)Another informant admitted to feeling aroused by having a female name and gender designation on her identity documents, because this carried implications of now being “forced” to live permanently in the female gender role, a theme that is a staple of transvestite and transsexual erotic fi ction:I will confess that of fi cially changing my name and changing my driver’s license and IDover to “female” did sexually excite me, as I felt I had pushed myself to a point of no return.The notion of now being trapped in my new gender reminded me of all of the little pink storybooks of “forced transitions” I had bought and been stimulated by earlier. (182) The anonymity provided by the Internet allowed some informants to enact their behavioral autogynephilic fantasies by posing as women and engaging in female-typical behavior in cyberspace:I have lived as a woman in the cyber world for the last few years, taking on a woman’s name and identity. I spend a lot of my time on the net every night, living out my fantasy of being a woman. (183)I really do wish I could be an attractive woman. But that is impossible, so I become one in cyberspace. When I fi rst created a female identity on the Internet, I would become the attractive, 5 ¢ 1″, 100 lbs., black-haired beauty who wears red lipstick and pearls. (109) Perhaps the most unusual instance of behavioral autogynephilia involved a 61-year-old informant who aspired to be the “trophy wife” of a wealthy business-man or successful male professional:I am a 61-year-old preoperative transsexual. I have had liposuction and will have an almost total facial package done within the next several months. My thing is not to have a female body, though I am de fi nitely an anatomic autogynephiliac. My thing is to have a super-sexy female face and body. I want to be the woman that men look at and know that, unless they’re the CEO or extremely successful professionally, they can’t afford me. I feel like I’man ideal candidate to be the wife of an extremely successful person. I’ve seen the male side of things and I’m going to have extraordinary empathy for his side. Even though I’ll be a sex-bomb, I won’t be an airhead. I’ll be the best combination of two worlds. (184) Wealthy male CEOs and other professionals rarely choose 61-year-old natal women as trophy wives, even if the women in question are or were extremely beautiful, love men, and have decades of experience in pleasing and catering to their male partners. The idea that a wealthy male CEO or other professional might choose to marry a 61-year-old autogynephilic MtF transsexual strains credulity. This narrative illustrates the naiveté with which many autogynephilic MtF transsexuals approach the prospect of romantic or sexual relationships with male partners. I will examinethis topic in greater detail in Chap. 8 .Concluding Comments on the Diverse Manifestationsof AutogynephiliaAs these narrative excerpts demonstrate, the manifestations of autogynephilia are highly diverse. The key to understanding this diversity is the realization that autogynephilic transsexuals can envy and eroticize any aspect of femaleness or femininity, from the most fundamental and essential to the most trivial and mundane.Autogynephilic transsexuals can and do eroticize fundamental biological aspects of femaleness, such as having female anatomy and physiological functions. They almost invariably eroticize wearing women’s clothing—the most prevalent manifestation of autogynephilia. They can eroticize any aspect of female-typical behavior, from the cross-culturally universal to the most culturally speci fi c. They can even eroticize aspects of women’s experience that most women dislike, such as societal expectations to conform to standards of dress or behavior that are restrictive, inconvenient, or uncomfortable. One of my clients even described being turned-on by the fantasy of experiencing sexism: having her opinions ignored or dismissed because she is a woman, or being treated as incompetent in technical subjects in which she had been expert while living as a man. Any aspect of women’s experience is seemingly fair game for an autogynephilic fantasy.The unusual or quirky manifestations of autogynephilia are undeniably fascinating, in part for what they reveal about current cultural ideas concerning femaleness and femininity. It is important to remember, however, that autogynephilic transsexuals—whatever the nature of their erotic fantasies—experience real gender dysphoria, develop real cross-gender identities, and often transition to live as social women in a world where being somewhat recognizable as a woman makes one’s life easier, safer, and more rewarding. The aspects of female-typical appearance and behavior that autogynephilic transsexuals eroticize are, for the most part, the same aspects that they envy, admire, love, and want to emulate. Autogynephilic transsexuals who undergo sex reassignment and want to thrive in the real world are well advised to try, at least to some extent, to look like and act like natal women. If they fi nd the prospect of doing this somewhat erotic, so much the better.Autogynephilia Resembles and Complicates HeterosexualityBlanchard ( 1991, 1992 ) theorized that autogynephilia is a variant or misdirected form of heterosexuality that usually coexists with ordinary heterosexual attraction to women but also competes with that attraction. Consistent with Blanchard’s theory, several informants reported that their autogynephilic feelings seemed to resemble or be closely connected to their feelings of heterosexual attraction. The sexual desire they felt toward speci fi c women was often accompanied by the desire to look like or become those same women, such that the two desires were at times dif fi cult to separate or distinguish from one another. Some informants observed that intense sexual attraction to a woman could temporarily lessen their autogynephilic feelings, but that autogynephilia would inevitably return in force when the intensity of heterosexual attraction waned. Many informants reported that they usually or invariably engaged in cross-gender fantasies when they had sex with female partners; some stated that heterosexual performance was possible only when they utilized such fantasies. Several informants observed, however, that obligatory reliance on autogynephilic fantasies seemed to diminish or preclude genuine intimacy. In some instances, autogynephilic arousal overshadowed or displaced heterosexual attraction and behavior almost completely: Informants were aroused by the fantasy or reality of themselves as female, but they reported little or no attraction to potential female sexual partners. A few informants reported what they considered a late loss of virginity and theorized that this might be a consequence of their autogynephilic feelings.Autogynephilia Feels Closely Related to Heterosexual AttractionAs noted in Chap. 2 , a few transsexual autobiographers have observed an apparent connection between their desire to be women and their attraction to women. Hunt ( 1978 ) , for example, said about girls, “I seethed with envy while at the same time becoming sexually aroused—I wanted to possess them even as I wanted to become them” (p. 60), and Zander ( 2003 ) reported having experienced “a slightly schizophrenic feeling whenever I met an attractive girl…I used to call this my ‘Have her and be her’ fantasy” (p. 104). Some clients in my practice have recounted similar feelings; one described masturbating while looking at a photograph of an attractive woman and rapidly alternating between the fantasy of having sex with her and the fantasy of being her, with the result that the two fantasies seemed to merge.In the current study, several informants also observed that their autogynephilic feelings seemed to be closely related or connected to their feelings of attraction toward women. Indeed, their desires for women and their desires to be women were sometimes hard to separate from each other:I have understood for a long time that my desire to be a woman and my attraction to women were somehow linked. (185)For me, gender, sex, and desire might be easy concepts to separate in theory, but in practice they are so interwoven that they are very dif fi cult to separate. When I was in my teens, my desire to be a woman was so strong I was unable to separate “I wish I was her” from “I wish to have sex with her.” (186)Seeing a woman’s body, with all its aesthetic and erotic qualities, can feed both gynephilic and autogynephilic emotions. The sight of a beautiful girl sensually dancing and expressing her femininity can drive me wild, although it’s impossible to separate my envy from the normal mechanisms of the masculine psyche. (081)I am in my 50s. My earliest sexual fantasies were about being female. If I saw a naked woman, to some degree I would want to have sex with her, but the more prominent thought was that I would want to be her. This was pretty confusing. (187)The last informant mentioned the confusion that arose from feeling attracted to women and also feeling aroused by the thought of being a woman. I believe that such confusion is not uncommon in autogynephilic men, especially during their teenage years.Some informants observed that when they saw a woman they considered attractive, they usually fantasized about becoming her, rather than about engaging in sex with her:At the very moment young males are fi rst becoming aroused by the opposite sex, there apparently is a group of us that are becoming aroused at being the opposite sex. I remember with a great deal of clarity—I became aroused by those blossoming young girls in their short skirts and wishing I was them. (018)I realized that when I admired a female, I was not wishing to have sex with her but wanting in some way to be her. (051)I felt detached from the male world because I didn’t like the normal sex talk about wanting to have women. I wanted to be a woman I was attracted to, not have a woman I was attracted to. (056)Autogynephilia Feels Closely Related to Heterosexual Attraction I have always been exclusively attracted to girls, but in order to be aroused by them, I must go through the extra mental step of internalizing their voluptuous features as existing on my own body. In other words, I am romantically attracted to girls, but the actual physical lust has needed to come from the idea of having their bodies. (014)Other informants reported having had similar reactions to photographs of models or nude women: They fantasized about being these women, rather than having sex with them.Lingerie ads, nude photographs of women, stimulate me in the sense that I identify with the person, not to have intercourse with them, but to be like them. (157) I will never have the body of a model, but seeing pictures on covers of magazines, I do not desire the model but rather desire to look like her. (128)Another informant described how two of her female partners had concluded on their own that she might be more interested in becoming them than in making love to them:I always felt a compulsion to disclose my femme side to my girlfriends but only did it with a handful. Two “read” me with no prompting on my part. One of them observed bemusedly that I wanted to be her making love to myself. The other asked me if I wanted to be her or fuck her. (156)A few informants reported that they had sexual fantasies about looking like or wearing the clothes or hairstyles of speci fi c girls or women to whom they felt especially attracted:When I reached adolescence, I started cross-dressing discretely and would get aroused and masturbate, fantasizing about myself in the clothes but also with a female appearance: for example, the hair and face of an actress I admired or a girl in school I thought was attractive.In adolescence, I had a strong attraction to certain actresses (e.g., Dianna Rigg from The Avengers and Mary Tyler Moore). I would get aroused by fantasies involving having my appearance changed to match that of these actresses. I fantasized about being forced to dress as a woman. When I was attracted to some girls in school, I would fantasize about being forced to wear their clothes and have hair like theirs. (056)My fantasies have generally involved me as a very attractive woman – often taking the form of whatever girl I had a crush on at school – in a lesbian relationship with another very attractive woman. (014)Other informants described how their initial attraction to women had turned into or been supplanted by the desire to become women themselves. In other words, their original heterosexual desire had evolved into or been replaced by autogynephilic desire:When I look at an attractive woman on the street, I no longer think the male thought,“Mmm, I’d like to sleep with her.” Instead, I think, “Mmm, I wonder what it’s like to be her.” And I am jealous. (188)My experience with transsexualism started with a love for the female body, followed by the wish to “embody” that femininity inside me. I remember feelings of attraction to women when I was a child, perhaps when I was only 6 or 7, and fantasizing about a beautiful teenage girl who lived next door. I remember having the urge to sneak into her home and “possess” her body. I was too young to appreciate what sex means; all I understood was that I wanted to see and hold her naked body. At that point, “possess” meant to me to enjoy it asan outsider. But subsequently, my desire changed to wanting to “possess” it as an insider: I began to wear my mother’s underwear and fantasize about my being a girl. (189) There is one culturally sanctioned way to “possess” a female body, heterosexual sex. I tried and tried for 30 years to sexually possess a female body. Finally at 40 I had the awareness that what I really wanted was to be a female (body), versus to have a female body. The sexy body I was always looking for in a woman turned out to be my own after transition and surgery. The person I was looking for in a woman turned out to really be me. I never found that person except in myself. (190)I am still exclusively attracted to women romantically, albeit no longer obsessively. My attraction to them has been redirected inward. When I regard my now very feminine self in the mirror, I am get a slight rush from the sense of ful fi llment I never had as a male, even when I enjoyed the love and affection of very beautiful women. (156) Blanchard ( )observed that autogynephilia and conventional heterosexualattraction often exist in a state of competition. Nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals often report that their autogynephilic fantasies and behaviors or their associated feelings of gender dysphoria become less compelling or disappear altogether when they fall in love with women. There are several published case reports documentingthis phenomenon (e.g., Marks et al., 2000 ; Shore, 1984 ; Steiner, 1985 ) . Conversely, nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals sometimes report that their autogynephilic fantasies or their feelings of gender dysphoria become stronger after an existing heterosexual relationship ends or loses its novelty (e.g., Marks et al.). As noted inChap. 2 , Blanchard ( 1992 ) referred to this phenomenon as dynamic competition (p.275). Dynamic competition between autogynephilia and heterosexual attraction was an especially frequent theme in the informants’ narratives; here are some representative examples:Whenever I had a girlfriend or was in love, my autogynephilia would recede so deeply that I would actually forget that I ever had it. I cannot overstate this. Even when I would think of my autogynephilia during these periods, it would seem like it was just nothing. But it would keep coming back. And each time it came back it would be a little bit stronger. I am now age 53, and my autogynephilia is the only sex drive I have. (102) I have been in many short-term, turbulent relationships with women. At the beginning of a relationship, my gender dysphoria is almost nonexistent, but after a period of three months to a year, I start having erotic fantasies about being a woman. Eventually, I need to fantasize about being a woman to perform sexually. (018)My transsexual feelings diminished signi fi cantly, but not entirely, when I started having sex with the woman who became my wife. I still remember that odd look she gave me when I once used the words “my pussy” in sex talk. Like a pendulum, however, my transsexual desires increased as the novelty of the sexual relationship diminished. It is now stronger than ever. (191)I began taking contraceptive pills on a daily basis and seriously considered how and where I could transition. As a start, I booked a long holiday, which I intended to spend partly as a woman. At this critical juncture, I met on holiday a lovely girl with whom I immediatelyAutogynephilia Competes with Heterosexual Attraction bonded. I had to rebuff her fi rst sexual advances, as I was by then incapable of an erection.After a week, she had to go home. A few days later, after much agonizing, I decided I was really serious about her and stopped taking the pills and disposed of all the female items I had begun to accumulate. By the time we met again, two months later, I was able to sustain an erection. However, my sexual drive remained quite low, and I used transsexual and feminization fantasies to help my arousal. (129)I got a prescription for Premarin from a doctor and continued taking it off and on for a year.Finally I went to see a therapist, who said I was clearly transsexual. I separated from my wife, and I dressed as a female essentially full-time. However, I still considered myself heterosexual, interested in women. I met a wonderful woman, and we married and had a child. I’ve never breathed a word about cross-dressing to her. However, after suppressing the desires for about 2 years, they have come back. I have obtained hormones from a reputable source and have started taking them again. (192)I began fantasizing myself as a woman, and I discovered that it was just as sexually arousing as having intercourse, if not more so. My fantasy evolved into my desiring to change my body. In my late 40s, my marriage ended and I soon found myself overwhelmingly attracted to a lovely, warm, and very sexual woman. I purged myself of my past and dove into my new relationship. But, several years into my second marriage, the feelings crept slowly back into my life. I eventually reconstituted my collection of underwear and I resumed my erotic feminization fantasies and self-pleasuring. No matter how good the marital sex, I would fall asleep dreaming about becoming feminized. (193) Dynamic competition also appears to occur between autogynephilia and attraction to other MtF transsexuals. This might plausibly represent a somewhat different phenomenon than the dynamic competition between autogynephilia and attraction to natal women, but it is conveniently addressed here. Nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals not uncommonly fi nd themselves sexually attracted to other MtF transsexuals. In some cases, this appears to re fl ect a preferential, paraphilic attraction to the MtF transsexual somatotype; this paraphilia is called gynemimetophilia (Money,1986 ) . Several narratives by transsexual and nontranssexual informants with gyne-mimetophilia will be presented in Chaps. 9 and 11 . MtF transsexuals with this paraphilic interest typically have a history of repeated infatuations or involvements with other MtF transsexuals, but they do not necessarily or ordinarily put aside their plans for sex reassignment when they fall in love with MtF transsexuals.In other cases, however, nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals without any apparent history of paraphilic attraction to the transsexual somatotype fall in love with other MtF transsexuals, fi nd that their autogynephilia and associated gender dysphoria temporarily go into remission, and put aside their transition plans to pursue romantic relationships as men with their MtF transsexual partners. This phenomenon hasbeen described in a few case reports (e.g., Marks et al., 2000 ; Person, 1995 ; see alsoOvesey & Person, 1976 ) , as has a closely related phenomenon involving transvestites who temporarily give up cross-dressing after becoming romantically involvedwith MtF transsexuals (Guze, 1969 ) .In the current study, two informants reported that they stopped taking hormones or lost their desire for sex reassignment after falling in love with another MtFtranssexual:I was on hormones for 6 months until about a month ago, when I fell head over heels for another girl in transition. Hormones had killed my libido, but after stopping hormones, it’snot coming back very quickly. While I dearly love the girl I fell for, I fi nd that spontaneous erections are not as good as when I fantasize about forced feminization and/or becoming a woman. (130)For many years I cross-dressed and would become sexually aroused at the sight of myself in the mirror. This would lead to furious masturbation. One night I went to a club for crossdressers and transsexuals. I met a sultry transsexual who was in transition. I was very aroused. She suggested that I go home with her, and it was the most surprising and transforming experience of my life. I stopped being tormented with a desire to transition or cross-dress. Instead, I became obsessed with transsexual women. (194) Do the experiences described by these informants reflect a type of dynamiccompetition between autogynephilia and attraction to individuals who closely resemble natal women? Or do they perhaps simply represent the unmasking of previously unrecognized gynemimetophilia? The fi nal sentence of the second narrative above is suggestive of the latter possibility.Falling in love with another MtF transsexual allows autogynephilic gender dysphoric persons the opportunity to experience the actualization of their own cross-gender wishes by proxy; this probably represents part of its appeal. Person ( 1995 ) observed that:Fantasy may be grati fi ed through bonding with someone who has already actualized one’s own fantasy. This mechanism is particularly apparent among people with cross-gender disorders… .What is particularly prominent in love is that the identi fi cation process allows us to enjoy our fantasies vicariously, that is, at one remove, without suffering guilt or anxiety. (p. 131)One might speculate that this same dynamic is probably also operative, at least to some extent, in dynamic competition between autogynephilia and heterosexual attraction to natal women.Autogynephilia Complicates Heterosexual ExpressionInformants frequently stated that autogynephilia had complicated their relationships with their female sexual and romantic partners. Many reported that they habitually needed to resort to autogynephilic fantasies to become suf fi ciently sexually aroused to engage in sexual intercourse with female partners or achieve orgasm during intercourse. Here are a few representative comments:When I married and sex became a part of our relationship, it was awkward from the beginning, and the only way—and I emphasize the ONLY way—I would achieve sexual arousal would be by taking the role of the female via fantasy and actually believing I was the one being made love to. (114)I have always imagined swapping places with my female partner and feeling what she is feeling and possessing her body and genitalia. Actually, that is basically the only way I can achieve an orgasm. (095)I am married to a lovely lady who has been my wife for 23 years. I love her, but the only way I can have sex is to dream I am a woman with breasts and a vagina. (195)Autogynephilia Complicates Heterosexual ExpressionI am attracted to women. I can only orgasm during sexual intercourse if I see myself as female and believe that I’m being penetrated. (196)I have always found the idea of being a woman sexually arousing. Indeed, I can only climax with my wife by thinking that I am female. (197)I can’t understand why I can only make love to a woman by fantasizing that I’m her in every way. (198)I was married for years, and the only way I could get aroused was to think about how great it would have been to be my wife. (199)One informant stated that he found it dif fi cult to function sexually as a man with a female partner, even with the help of autogynephilic fantasies:I am currently in a long term relationship of nearly 7 years and I have a lot of dif fi culty getting aroused by the thought of having sex with a woman. Often I have fantasies like: I wish she had the penis so that she could make love to me. I often imagine myself as a woman to achieve ejaculation. I don’t really get a proper orgasm very often. (200) Others reported experiencing performance dif fi culties during acts of heterosexual intercourse in which they attempted to take the traditional male role or were unable to engage in autogynephilic fantasies:The central themes of my erotic fantasies were my becoming female and having sex with women as a woman. The fantasies allowed me to have a sexual relationship with my wife, but when she wanted me to act like a man, my sexual feelings disappeared, except for my private ones about being a woman. (132)I can never have sex with a female without thinking about myself as a female. It is always about me and never my partner. The more attractive they are, the easier it is for me, but that’s just because I’m wishing or thinking about being them. When I was 19, I met the woman who would become my wife. She hated it if I closed my eyes during sex, but the only way I can become aroused is to think of myself in feminine ways. So for years, we would have sex only sporadically, because I had to be real horny to have sex with her and keep my eyes open. (034)Another informant similarly reported that he never looked at his female partner while he engaged in intercourse but instead imagined what she was feeling: I previously had a heterosexual relationship in which I had intercourse. I enjoyed the physical sensations, but when I think about what I was doing at those times, I realize that I don’t recall ever actually looking at her while we were having intercourse. I do remember sometimes imagining what the sex felt like for her. (043)Obligatory reliance on autogynephilic fantasies for arousal during sex with female partners felt wrong or embarrassing to some informants:Making love as a man to a woman was always very confusing, it just didn’t have that knockout punch, unless I fantasized I was a woman, but that seemed wrong when you were making love to your wife. (201)In my marriage, the vast majority of the time with my wife in bed was spent in fantasy.What I was doing to her, in my mind, was really being done to me by someone else. It was me that was the beautiful woman. The reality of the situation, that I was a man in bed with a woman, was by far wholly insuf fi cient to arouse me much. I never wanted to admit to myself or anyone what a turn on just thinking about all this was to me. (021)Other informants reported that their autogynephilic feelings had led them to limit or eventually stop engaging in sex with their female partners or even to give up entirely on the prospect of having satisfactory sexual relationships with women: My fantasies about being female have not been good for my relationship with my wife of the past 15 years. I enjoy having a more feminine body. That, of course, is the root of my sexuality. My wife and I are on a “friends” basis now, because I cannot ful fi ll her desire for a man and my sexual desire involves myself as a woman. (066)I have told my wife of these fantasies, some have been acted out, some rejected, some not understood. My feelings have diminished our sex life substantially. I often have to fantasize I am a woman to achieve orgasm; she wants a man in her bed more than a woman. (093) I suffer from autogynephilia. The mental image of myself becoming female is de fi nitely erotic. As a matter of fact, the only sexual feelings that I have relate to this. My spouse and I once had a pretty close physical relationship, and that is now nonexistent. (202) About sex: I usually do it myself, with pictures of women in dresses. I imagine that I am one of the women, stuck in the role. I had a girlfriend for a while, but this mode of excitation was not something that she could deal with. (035)I got married hoping that it would cure me; it hasn’t. I have sex with my wife out of obligation about once a year. When I do, I am the woman with a vagina and she has the penis. (177) The idea of becoming a woman—that is, being changed physically—was indeed a source of sexual stimulation for me. I have had some relationships with women, but dismissed them as futile in my early 20s. I could not cope with the autogynephilic feelings and be in a relationship. (113)One informant observed that her obligatory reliance on autogynephilic imagery for sexual arousal precluded genuine intimacy during partnered sex and sometimes made her feel awful:I can’t remember a time when I was able to have an orgasm without fantasizing myself as a woman. Whether I was making love to a woman or pleasing myself, nothing could happen for me without an accompanying fantasy that I was a woman. My own pleasure is all but guaranteed, as long as I can conjure up the right fantasy. But there’s also a dark side: There is almost no way for me to have intimate and loving sex. The simple act of giving to my partner is turned topsy-turvy by my need to imagine myself as her. At rare times it works out, and both of us are happy. More often I end up feeling really awful. And sometimes my need for this fantasy leaves me feeling like some kind of bizarre emotional vampire. Then sex becomes a chore, even a threat, to me; it’s no fun any more, and it stops happening. (203) Why would consistently resorting to autogynephilic fantasies during sexual intercourse make one feel like an “emotional vampire”? Perhaps because vampires take something they require from their victims without giving anything back (or at least anything good). Nearly everyone needs and wants emotional intimacy during sex, but habitually resorting to autogynephilic fantasies can make autogynephilic men feel that they are receiving such intimacy without giving any back to their partners.Money ( 1988 ) graphically described this absence of reciprocated intimacy: One paraphilic patient equated intercourse with his wife with masturbating in her vagina. In his paraphilic fantasy, she was a stage property, not a participant actor. (p. 143) It is easy to imagine why partnered sex might feel really awful and eventually stop happening if one’s partner is merely a prop.Integration of Autogynephilic Elements into Heterosexual Lovemaking Integration of Autogynephilic Elements into HeterosexualLovemakingA few informants reported that they had sometimes managed to integrate their autogynephilic desires into lovemaking with their female partners. Here are two representative accounts:My wife is really supportive. She has bought me clothes, makeup, shoes, a wig, and other things. When I wear them, I get aroused and we have the best sex I have ever had with her.My wife and I bought a realistic looking penis/dildo. She uses it on me and I fantasize about my anus being my vagina and I have great orgasms. (046)Even though my wife is a natural female, I can block her out and make believe she is penetrating me; or, when I am lucky, she will play along and tell me what a pretty girl I am. (124)One informant reported that she was intensely sexually aroused by being unable to penetrate female partners and needing to use a strap-on dildo to pleasure them: As I began to lose my ability to have sustainable erections, my fantasies began to shift.I tried to have sex with women at times—especially gay or dominant women—and I soon realized I got a tremendous thrill from the fact that I could no longer perform sex as a man.One of the most intense sexual experiences occurred when I was with a woman who asked me to put on a strap-on to satisfy her. The strap-on was the most powerful sexual symbol of my new status. (077)Some informants stated that they preferred to engage in sexual intercourse with their female partners on top, presumably because this placed the informants in the traditional female position and thereby enhanced their autogynephilic fantasies: My wife and I have intercourse regularly. I have persuaded her that I perform best if she mounts me, rather than the other way around. I am not sure whether I could now have intercourse if I were on top. I can only achieve orgasm through fantasizing about forced feminization. (143)For years I have imagined myself as a beautiful woman and have had fantasies about receiving pleasure sexually as a woman. I ask my wife to be on top frequently, and she obviously can tell how this arouses me. (103)Heterosexual lovemaking was commonly accompanied by the fantasy of being in a lesbian relationship:My wife has been very supportive of my efforts of growth and inner discovery. We proceeded to adapt our lovemaking to re fl ect my long hidden desires to be submissive and“soft.” We have had the warmest, most loving experience of our lives these past few weeks, as I openly enjoy real sex while being treated as a woman. Is it fair to say we are acting almost as though we are lesbians? She certainly is not, but we are doing a lot more caressing, oral sex, and conversation. (204)I am currently married to a very supportive woman who treats me at home like a female lover. My wife and I decidedly relate to each other on a lesbian level, with sexual practices being almost exclusively manual and oral. Regular copulation, when used, is with her usually being the dominant top partner and both of us fantasizing that we are using a double-ended dildo (i.e., my penis). God, I can’t believe I wrote that, but it is the truth. (038)I had always been attracted to women and lesbian sex was highly erotic. When I entered my fi rst sexual relationship, I began to fantasize that we were lesbian lovers. I actually convinced her to assist in the fantasies occasionally. I don’t think she ever really understood what it meant to me. (101)It is not unusual for wives or female partners to remain in relationships with MtFtranssexuals who initiate or complete sex reassignment. In a follow-up study of MtFtranssexuals who had completed SRS (Lawrence, 2005 ) , among 153 participants who had been married before SRS, 17 (11%) still lived with their spouse or ex-spouse following SRS.Autogynephilia Is Sometimes Associated with Marital Discordor DivorceIn contrast to the previous reports of successful integration of autogynephilic behaviors into heterosexual relationships, several informants stated that their partners were annoyed or turned-off by their autogynephilic fantasies and behaviors or eventually found them intolerable.My ex-wife used to become extremely jealous and angry because I would masturbate while dressed. I cannot get off sexually with a woman or through masturbation without fantasizing about being a woman. (048)During marriage, I was only turned on by my wife telling me stories of men making love to me. I don’t know why, but this is what turns me on. I guess sex for her was not that great.She said she was tired of feeling like she was having a lesbian relationship. (205) With one girlfriend and now with my wife, I have managed to incorporate some crossdressing activities into our sex life, but only very minor. I can rapidly lose my connection with my partner and become absorbed with my own fantasies, which is a big turn-off for them. Mostly I keep my fantasies and certainly the extent of them to myself. (107) Early in my former marriage, I used to fantasize with my wife about switching sexes with her or even switching bodies. She participated in these fantasies and seemed to enjoy them early on, but later, as I started to cross-dress more and more, she got upset and turned off by them. (206)My current wife of 11 years was initially accepting of my cross-dressing desires as a fetish, but became very opposed when it became clear to her that it wasn’t just a sexual turn-on.For example, she hates that I wear my hair in a somewhat feminine style and shave my legs.(056)One informant reported that his wife seemed to regard him as an alien being who had somehow taken possession of her husband’s body:The feeling of my growing breasts and softening skin is more sexy to me than anything or anyone outside myself. My wife sees me as a totally sel fi sh person, one who has killed and inhabited her husband’s body and is ruining what is left of him. (073) In my practice, I have more than once heard reports of spouses invoking images of alien or demonic possession to describe the powerful forces that seem to have taken control of their husbands’ bodies and lives.Autogynephilia Sometimes Overshadows and Replaces Heterosexual Attraction A few informants stated or implied that autogynephilia had been a contributing factor in their divorces, although narratives explicitly attributing divorce to crossdressing or other cross-gender behaviors were surprisingly infrequent. Here are a few examples:I cross-dressed a few times in secret while I was married and was caught on one occasion.My wife’s reaction was disapproving. She was prepared to forget the matter, provided I assured her it wouldn’t happen again, but ultimately my revelation that I did it for sexual pleasure sealed the fate of the marriage, and we are now going through divorce. (053) I started electrolysis and hormones and gave myself one year to start living full-time as the woman I’d always wanted to be. My wife demanded a divorce, and I moved out of the house. I was very sad to lose her, but overjoyed by my new freedom. (182) After seven years, she called it quits and asked for a divorce. She found some of my things, which included breast forms, wigs, lingerie and other items. She could not accept this part of me and said she wanted a real man. Plus, I was a complete failure in bed. I was not sexually attracted to her and spent all my time fantasizing about dressing or becoming a woman.These feminine thoughts blocked out any feelings for her. (080)One informant expressed the hope that severely gender dysphoric autogynephilic men would learn about the meaning and signi fi cance of autogynephilia before deciding to marry and have children; her unstated but clear implication was that it might be better for these men to avoid marriage:I only hope that other men like me will fi nd this information and learn to understand themselves earlier in life, when they have more time to consider their options and before they marry and have kids. (044)I feel that this informant’s advice is wise: Severely gender dysphoric autogynephilic men should consider their feelings carefully and think twice before entering into marriage.As previously noted, autogynephilia and heterosexual attraction usually coexist to some extent, but the balance between their relatives strengths can shift over time; this shifting balance is called dynamic competition . Blanchard ( 1992 ) also described another type of competition between autogynephilia and heterosexual attraction, developmental competition (p. 275); it is so called because it putatively occurs early in psychosexual development. Blanchard theorized that developmental competition establishes a kind of “baseline” balance between the relative strengths of autogynephilia and heterosexual attraction; this baseline balance can subsequently be shifted through the operation of dynamic competition.Blanchard ( 1992 ) further theorized that, in a few cases, developmental competition establishes a baseline balance of relative strengths in which autogynephilia is so much stronger than heterosexual attraction that the former overshadows andeffectively crowds out the latter. This formulation accounts for the existence of autogynephilic transsexuals whose sexual interest is directed almost exclusively toward themselves and who experience little or no sexual attraction to other persons. These transsexuals are referred to as analloerotic (not sexually attracted toother people; Blanchard, 1989a ) . In a survey of 232 MtF transsexuals who had completed SRS, I observed that about 12% of participants reported little or no sexualattraction to other persons and were plausibly analloerotic (Lawrence, 2005 ) .In the current survey, several informants reported that their autogynephilic feelings were not accompanied by any signi fi cant heterosexual attraction or that they had no desire to engage in sexual activity with female partners. Here are some of their observations:In the street, I look at a girl, and think, “god, I want to be in that body.” I have never had any kind of attraction to men, nor to a girl, except for being envious of that body and lifestyle. (207)My self-conception as a female and the subsequent self-feminization was enough to offer me a sexual delight so high and so intense as I never felt again till after my transition. The sole thing interesting to me then was not to be with someone else but to become female. (208) I have never had any thoughts of wanting to have sex with a female. I am attracted to females, but not so much by physical lust, but by personality displayed in interaction and through facial features. My fantasies involving relationships have focused on the emotional and companionship aspects, not the physical ones. I have recently longed to be able to relate to females as other females do. (209)I am sexually aroused by the thought of being female and the thought of making love as a woman to a man. I have had a desire since early childhood to be female, but I’m attracted to neither sex, except in my sexual fantasies. (210)My transsexuality does have erotic elements. I get so turned on to myself that my heart pounds with horniness and wantonness but also joy and exhilaration. I honestly am not attracted to anyone else. I guess you could call me anallophilic. Maybe I could be attracted to someone else, but I’m not and haven’t been for most of my life. I am my own pleasure.Yes, indeed: love of oneself as a woman. (211)I lost my virginity at age 26 by frequenting a sex worker. It became apparent that there was little difference between intercourse and masturbation for me. While others were out chasing each other, I had no attraction to anyone, but masturbated furiously by myself. I had passes but didn’t know what to do. I had no experience in responding to any of this. (087) I have always found cross-dressing extremely erotic. I never developed any type of normal sexual relationships with girls in my teens. I never looked at Playboy magazine or naked women. They never really did anything for me sexually. I did not have a girlfriend until I was 19. I never found her sexually attractive, but I absolutely loved her panties. We were together for two years and were like two sisters or best friends. We never had sex during that time. My only sexual interest in her was fantasizing and imagining it was me who was wearing those panties. (080)I have always felt a deep, unshakeable longing to be female. I have an attraction to women and not to men; I can remember always having wanted a girlfriend. My attraction to women, however, has never involved a desire to have sex. At no point have I ever looked at a woman and had a sexual response to the thought of having sex with her. I’ve tried fantasizing about having sex, but it really does nothing for me at all. My desire for a girlfriend, I think, always related to the need for acceptance and companionship. (004)Late Loss of Virginity in Autogynephilic Transsexuals The last informant alluded to one of the most signi fi cant issues that analloerotic autogynephilic transsexuals face: How to satisfy their longing for intimate, affectionate interpersonal relationships and the comfort provided by human touch in the absence of genuine sexual desire for other persons. Ms. Z described this situation inChap. 1 : Tired of the emptiness and futility of partnered sex, “eventually she resigned herself to celibacy, although she missed the comfort of another woman’s body pressed against her own.” On the basis of my clinical and nonclinical experience, I believe that many autogynephilic transsexuals feel lonely, isolated, and touch starved; but perhaps none so much as analloerotic autogynephilic transsexuals.Late Loss of Virginity in Autogynephilic TranssexualsSeveral informants reported that they had lost their virginity unusually late in life or had never lost it. Usually these informants implied or stated explicitly that they felt their delayed experience (or absence of experience) of sexual intercourse was somehow related to their autogynephilic sexuality. Here are some representative comments:I have often masturbated while wearing sexy feminine fashions and looking at pictures of women wearing sexy, feminine clothes. I have often wished I were these women and had their female bodies. I was a virgin until I was about 39. (141)At age 29, without any sexual experience and feeling guilty over being a virgin, I thought it was time to settle down with someone and try to live a normal life. I met someone whom I thought I could learn to love physically. I fi nally lost my virginity, but it was only through fantasizing about being dressed as or becoming a woman. (080)It took me until my later 20s to lose my virginity, and I had trouble getting fully aroused with my fi rst girlfriend, the only proper girlfriend I’ve had. I have not sought out sex with women as avidly as my friends, because my desires are always autogynephilic, which can detract from that kind of motivation. (023)I have experienced autogynephilia since childhood, in a fairly classic pattern. At 32, I am still effectively a virgin, never having had the right kind of drive or “know-how” to pursue women, even though I am de fi nitely attracted to them. (212)I relate very strongly to the descriptions of autogynephilia. Since I was 5, I have had a strong desire to be a girl, and since puberty, I have been fi lled with powerful sexual feelings by the thought of dressing as a woman and having a woman’s body. I am years old and a virgin; women have always attracted me, but I have been too much in awe of them to take the initiative and have never been attracted to the idea of playing a man’s role. (175)The last informant’s explanation of being “too much in awe of [women] to take the initiative” brings to mind Freud’s classic essay On the Universal Tendency to Debasement in the Sphere of Love (1912/ 1957 ) . Freud observed that heterosexual men’s respect for women is fundamentally antierotic:The man almost always feels his respect for the woman acting as a restriction on his sexual activity, and only develops full potency when he is with a debased sexual object.… It sounds not only disagreeable but also paradoxical, yet it must nevertheless be said that anyone who is to be really free and happy in love must have surmounted his respectfor women… . Anyone who subjects himself to a serious self-examination on the subject of this requirement will be sure to fi nd that he regards the sexual act as basically something degrading. (pp. 185–186)If Freud was correct that men’s respect for women is antierotic, perhaps the almost worshipful idealization that some autogynephilic men feel toward women can act as an impediment to their engaging in sexual intercourse with female partners.In a review article on autogynephilia (Lawrence, 2007 ) , I observed that nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals commonly reported that their attraction to women “was not expressed with typical masculine con fi dence” (p. 514). One can imagine several possible reasons for this, in addition to feelings of extraordinary admiration and respect for women: for example, uncertainty about gender identity or sexual orientation, or simply a paucity of other-directed sexual interest in the case of analloerotic or near-analloerotic autogynephilic transsexuals.Autogynephilia Versus HeterosexualityThe narrative excerpts in this chapter are consistent with Blanchard’s ideas about the relationship between autogynephilia and heterosexual attraction, and they viv-idly illustrate the ways these ideas play out in real life. Blanchard ( 1991, 1992 ) theorized that autogynephilia was a variant form of heterosexual attraction, and that is precisely what informants described: Their autogynephilic desires felt similar to heterosexual desire and arose in similar circumstances, and the two feelings were sometimes hard to distinguish. Blanchard ( 1992 ) theorized that autogynephilia and heterosexual desire would often exist in dynamic competition, and informants reported that this was indeed the case: Their autogynephilic feelings often diminished temporarily when they began a new heterosexual relationship, but autogynephilia returned in force when the relationship lost its novelty. Blanchard also theorized that developmental competition between autogynephilia and heterosexual attraction would sometimes favor autogynephilic desire so powerfully that heterosexual attraction would be almost negligible by comparison; this situation, called analloeroticism, was also described by a few informants.Perhaps the most surprising aspect of so many of the narratives was the relative lack of intensity of the informants’ erotic desire for women. Even when heterosexual interest was strong enough to draw an informant into a sexual relationship with a woman, it was rarely strong enough to guarantee the informant’s orgasm during heterosexual intercourse. Over a dozen informants reported that cross-gender fantasies were always necessary to achieve orgasm during sex with female partners; only one or two informants stated or implied that such fantasies were optional or rarely necessary. I suspect (but cannot say for certain) that many less severely gender dysphoric autogynephilic men—many heterosexual cross-dressers, for example—do not experience this kind of obligatory reliance on cross-gender fantasies for orgasmic release during intercourse: At least occasionally, they plausibly fi nd theAutogynephilia Versus Heterosexualitybodies of their female partners suf fi ciently arousing to facilitate climax. It seems possible that the invariable necessity of engaging in autogynephilic fantasies to achieve orgasm during sex with female partners may be indicative of an especially strong autogynephilic sexual orientation, unusually intense gender dysphoria, or both.Although some informants found female partners who would cooperate with their autogynephilic fantasies during partnered sex, many others described their female partners as having been unaccepting. Some informants had given up on heterosexual relationships entirely because they could not fi nd cooperative partners or were unwilling to subject themselves or their partners to obligatory paraphilic enactments that felt dishonest or empty of real intimacy. It may be that long-term heterosexual relationships are inherently problematic for autogynephilic transsexuals.Both men and women, but women especially, want to feel desired by their partners (Brotto, Heiman, & Tolman, 2009 ) . Autogynephilic transsexuals, however, experience a self-directed erotic desire that is “greater than the desire for any person”(Bloom, 2002 , p. 94) and is likely to be inimical to interpersonal intimacy and satisfying sexual expression, whether it is concealed from female partners or disclosed to them. It seems to me that severely gender dysphoric autogynephilic men should feel great hesitancy about entering into marriage or long-term committed relationships with women; although such relationships may not inevitably be doomed, many if not most will probably either fail or prove to be highly unsatisfactory. In my opinion, most severely gender dysphoric autogynephilic men would be well advised to forego marriage altogether.Another theme running throughout the narrative excerpts in this chapter, albeit sometimes only implicitly, was the profound confusion informants felt about their simultaneous experience of heterosexual attraction and autogynephilic desire. Many appeared to have been so confused that they entered adulthood without a fi rm commitment to either heterosexual relationships or cross-gender expression; others went on to make unfortunate relationship choices that plausibly re fl ected this same confusion. Making sense of autogynephilic desire and its relationship to heterosexual attraction is inherently challenging, but the almost total absence of self-help resources and role models for young autogynephiles greatly compounds this problem. Teenage boys and young men who experience same-sex attraction often feel confusion, too; but at least they have educational resources to help them make sense of their feelings and “out” gay men to serve as role models. Autogynephilic teenagers and young adults—who may be almost as numerous as their gay counterparts,according to some estimates (see Lawrence, 2009a ) —are not so fortunate. Perhaps someday young autogynephiles will have self-help educational resources that summarize the facts about autogynephilia, along with “out” autogynephilic transsexual role models who can put a human face on the phenomenon they experience. Such aids to self-understanding are desperately needed and long overdue. I will say moreabout this topic in Chap. 12 .Autogynephilic Fantasies of Sex with Men Are PrevalentBehavioral autogynephilia can be de fi ned as the propensity to be sexually aroused by the act or fantasy of engaging in stereotypically feminine behaviors, those that“symbolize femininity to the affected male” (Blanchard, 1991 , p. 236). Blanchard observed that “the most common behavioral fantasies of adult autogynephilic men involve the thought of themselves, as women, engaging in sexual intercourse or other erotic activities” (p. 237), especially engaging in penile–vaginal intercourse with a man. Consistent with Blanchard’s observation, many transsexual informants submitted narratives describing fantasies involving sex with men.The allure of this autogynephilic fantasy is predictable: It is dif fi cult to think of a female-typical behavior that is more basic, culturally universal, or archetypal than being the recipient of vaginal penetration by a man; only breastfeeding and child care would seem to come close. The female reproductive role is the quintessential female role, and the fantasy of enacting the most dramatic aspect of that role is understandably powerful for most autogynephilic transsexuals.Blanchard argued that autogynephilic transsexuals who report that they are sexually attracted to men are not genuinely aroused by male bodies: He believed that their underlying sexual orientation is toward females, and their supposed attraction to men simply re fl ects their wish to have their femininity validated by interaction with a male partner. Consequently, these nominally “bisexual” transsexuals can more accurately be thought of as pseudobisexual (Blanchard, 1989b , p. 622).He explained:The effective erotic stimulus in these interactions, however, is not the male physique of the partner, as it is in true homosexual attraction, but rather the thought of being a woman, which is symbolized in the fantasy of being penetrated by a man. For these persons, the male sexual partner serves the same function as women’s apparel or make-up, namely, to aid and intensify the fantasy of being a woman. (p. 617)Blanchard further observed that bisexual autogynephilic transsexuals, in comparison to their heterosexual or analloerotic counterparts, were especially likely to report that they were sexually aroused by “the sexual fantasy of being admired, in the female persona, by another person” ( p. 619). Nearly all of the narratives that discussed sexual fantasies or behaviors involving male partners were consistent with Blanchard’s formulations.Although Blanchard distinguished between genuine androphilia (sexual attraction to men) and the autogynephilic fantasy of assuming the female role in relation to a male partner, he suggested that this distinction was probably lost on almost all autogynephilic transsexuals:Even the most scrupulously honest heterosexual male gender patients do not (and probably can not) intentionally distinguish, in their self-reports, between the nature of their interest in sexual intercourse with males, which is related to fetishism in that it derives from the symbolic meaning of a male partner, and true homosexual attraction, which is based upon erotic arousal by the male physique per se, in particular, by the sight or feel of the externalgenitalia. (Blanchard, 1985a , p. 253)In fact, Blanchard may have overstated the case somewhat: Although many informants seemingly were unable to make this crucial distinction, a few did so clearly and eloquently.It is important to note that the allure of enacting the female reproductive role and the appeal of having one’s femininity af fi rmed by the admiration of others are probably not the only reasons that some autogynephilic transsexuals express an interest in having men as sexual partners. Yet another reason might be that having a male partner signi fi es that an autogynephilic transsexual is, in at least some respects, normal . To be an autogynephilic transsexual is to be deviant. To be able to think of oneself as a “heterosexual woman”—a woman attracted to men—allows one to feel and appear more normal. Steiner ( 1985 ) described this phenomenon in an explanation that referenced Laud Humphreys’ ( 1976 ) concept of the breastplate of righteousness —a Biblical phrase that Humphreys used to denote a public facade of social conformity that conceals secret deviance:Many writers have noted the extremely traditional and rigid stereotyped sexual and bonding roles that most transsexuals, male or female, adopt. Within the context of public sex in malewashrooms or “tearooms,” Humphreys ( 1976 ) has noted that participants often expound“exaggerated conservative” attitudes concerning acceptable social and sexual behavior, and he has termed this the breastplate of righteousness . He has suggested that this exaggerated righteousness is an example of extreme public conformity as a method of compensating for this “deviant” behavior. Feinbloom et al . [ 1976 ] suggest that the male-to-female transsexual may be expressing a similar conservatism, as exempli fi ed by the usually complete acceptance of the rather limited, rigid, and stereotyped male and female roles that are more common to Victorian standards than to present-day standards. These authors further suggest that this breastplate-of-righteousness attitude accounts for the fact that the male[-to-female]transsexual, at least publicly, rejects lesbianism as a sexual option. (pp. 359–360) Although MtF transsexuals no longer invariably reject lesbianism, some of them go to great lengths to maintain a facade of “heterosexual normality.” One can observe this phenomenon on a few Internet web sites belonging to MtF transsexuals who fi t the autogynephilic demographic (formerly married to women, male-typicalAttraction to Men Often Reflects Desire for Validation of One’s Femininity occupational history, etc.) and have found men willing to marry them. On their web sites, these transsexuals clearly convey their pride in their status as married women; sometimes they even display their wedding photographs, which are often redolent of the kind of Victorian traditionalism that Steiner described.Attraction to Men Often Re fl ects Desire for Validationof One’s FemininitySeveral informants who described their sexual attraction to, sexual fantasies about, or sexual interactions with men perceptively observed that their interest in men primarily re fl ected their erotic desire to have their femininity validated: I am clearly much more physically attracted to women than men. Yet my primary fantasies are about being a woman with a man. As I think about this, I would concede that this may have much more to do with feminine validation than attraction. The very idea of being desired by a heterosexual man is erotic for me. (018)Before the transition process started, I often fantasized I was a woman having sex with a man. A little while into transition, my sexual submission with men seemed to validate my feminine feelings. To have intercourse with men seems to be as womanly as anyone can get.(213)I had sex with a real man. He made me feel like literally a whole new person. It is as if I have fi nally discovered sex; like having sex with a man who af fi rmed my womanhood was some kind of ultimate fantasy. (035)I have had sexual encounters with eight men. These have been generally less than ideal, since they have all had trouble maintaining erections. None the less, I found I enjoyed the physical aspects of this type of sex and felt I was con fi rming my womanhood by being a passive partner. (068)I fantasized about being penetrated by a man and wanted a boyfriend to con fi rm my femininity. (200)I am a postoperative transsexual. I have found that I get the most sexually excited now when I fantasize about being sexy and beautiful and when someone else sees me that way.In fact, adoration from someone else plays into it. (069)It occurred to me that I should consider sex with men—what better way to con fi rm my new status as a woman? The idea of sex with men used to disgust me, but little by little that changed, and I became tremendously turned on by the superior physical strength men have and my growing ability to turn them on just by fl aunting my stuff. Getting men aroused gives me an incredible sexual thrill and con fi rms my desirability as a woman. (077) I met a man who fell in love with me. When I was with him, I was happy to be submissive, I was excited to be looked after and to feel pretty and sexy. (214)I sometimes have the sense that what really thrills me is not my sexual partner (i.e., the supposed object of desire) but rather what he makes me feel like. I would feel thrilled to be a sexy woman capable of arousing a man—a real, straight, masculine man. (189) When I am a woman, I want to be with a man, acting like a woman, being treated like a woman and being loved like a woman. I know that this would be the ultimate for me. WhileI was living full-time, I had a boyfriend that I communicated with by e-mail. I even had a date with him when he was in my town. I enjoyed very much being treated like a lady. (215) I am powerfully sexually excited by the idea of being desired by men and by the notion of being thought of as beautiful. The turn on is not me, but to attract others. (216) In all of the preceding narrative excerpts, the informants emphasized the validation they experienced from real or fantasized interactions with men. They described how the real or imagined men they interacted with made them feel about themselves: womanly, desirable, submissive, sexy, beautiful, attractive. They notably did not emphasize how they felt about speci fi c men or about men in general (e.g., they did not describe falling in love with speci fi c men or feeling aroused by speci fi c men’s bodies—or by men’s bodies generally).One informant reported that she experienced similar feelings of validation of her womanhood after being anally penetrated by another preoperative MtF transsexual: I was with an Asian pre-op. She was totally functional, and I bottomed (anal) for her for about a half hour. It didn’t hurt at all, and I felt so feminine. I loved that I could cause a penis to orgasm the same way a natal female can. It was so great to be totally submissive.I loved being an object of pleasure for someone. (034)As this informant suggested, the ability to take a woman’s sexual role (or something like it) in relation to another person’s penis is sometimes all that is necessary to experience validation of one’s femininity. The gender of the person who possesses the penis may be of secondary importance.Imagined Male Partners Are Often Vagueor Anonymous FiguresBlanchard ( 1991 ) believed that, in the case of autogynephilic transsexuals who are aroused by fantasies of having sex with men as women, “the male partner represented in these fantasies is usually a vague, anonymous fi gure rather than a real person and probably has little excitatory function beyond that of completing the fantasy of vaginal intercourse in the female role” (p. 237). Blanchard was not the fi rst to call attention to this phenomenon: Person and Ovesey ( 1974a ) described so-called primary MtF transsexuals—those whom Blanchard ( 1989b ) would later call analloerotic—as typically masturbating “either with no fantasy at all, or with a vague heterosexual fantasy in which the patient saw himself as a woman. The fantasies were impersonal, and the partner was usually a stylized man rather than a real person” (p. 16).In the current study, many transsexual informants reported that the male fi gures in their fantasies closely conformed to these descriptions. Here are several representative examples:My most common sexual fantasy now is that I am a woman having sex with a man. No man in particular, just a male. Often he doesn’t even really have a face; he’s just there inside me as I imagine how that would feel. (148)Male Partners Are Often Arousing in Fantasy but Unattractive in Reality I dreamed and fantasized about having sex as a woman with a man penetrating my vagina, yet it was always a faceless, generic man. (217)I did fantasize about having sex with men as a woman, but it was indeed with faceless male stereotypes instead of real individual men. (122)I fi t in the mold of those who see men as faceless objects, necessary only to ful fi ll the fantasy. (184)My current fantasies involve becoming a woman. I imagine that I need to have a man penetrate my new vagina as a sort of rite of passage into womanhood; the man is faceless, and I don’t enjoy the sex. (056)It was bewildering to identify with images of women when sexually aroused and imagine I was them. Who was penetrating me? I don’t know, I left it blank. (082) I was now imagining that I was a woman and a man was making love to me. This man was faceless: He had a head, but no facial characteristics. (006)My sexual submission with men seemed to validate my feminine feelings. It was just like one of the articles described: a fantasy in which he was a prop. (213)The thought of sex with a man is erotic, provided I am a woman. In line with your asser-tions, the man in question is symbolic and featureless. The sexual contact is restricted to penetration only and does not extend to kissing the man, which I fi nd distasteful. (053) My fantasies of being made love to have occasionally involved a faceless, symbolic man, but I am not attracted to men. (175)The last two excerpts shed light on a question that might seem to have an obvious explanation but is actually rather subtle: Why are the male fi gures in so many of these autogynephilic fantasies faceless? It would be easy enough to conjure up the mental image of a speci fi c man—a movie star or celebrity, for example—if one chose to. The obvious explanation assumes that a kind of mental parsimony operates in the creation of fantasies: Because the male fi gures in these fantasies are purely symbolic, there is simply no need to give them faces or turn them into speci fi c, identi fi able men. I suspect that the more accurate and more subtle explanation is that fantasies involving speci fi c, identi fi able men could often be experienced as antierotic: Faceless, abstract men can be useful as symbolic fantasy elements, but real men are not only unattractive but also potentially distasteful and even disgusting. Abstract men can enhance fantasies, whereas real men can potentially spoil those fantasies. This conjecture provides a convenient segue to the next topic.Male Partners Are Often Arousing in Fantasybut Unattractive in RealityMany informants stated that, although they were aroused by fantasies of having sex with men, they did not actually fi nd men sexually attractive:When I masturbate now, it is either to the fantasy of being “humped” by a man or imagining myself as my wife being penetrated by a man. I don’t get erotic feelings just from thinking of myself as a woman, but I do when I think of being a woman having sex with men, although I’m not especially attracted to men. (218)Even though I would love to be with a man as a woman and even have normal sex, I am not attracted physically to a man. (215)I fl irted with the idea of having sex with a man; I was very curious, but I never did anything about it. I still didn’t see men as being at all attractive, even though I wanted to have sex with them. I just wasn’t attracted to men. (217)In an alternative formulation, some informants reported that they experienced no sexual attraction toward men when they were in the male role but found men attractive when they were in the female role. This suggests that the male partner himself was not intrinsically attractive but that the opportunity to assume the female role in relation to a man was the essential precondition for the experience of sexual“attraction”:I have an increasing sexual desire oriented toward men. I always fantasized myself to be a woman during the sexual act, both with women and with men. I never feel drawn to a man when I come to him as a man, but thinking of myself as a woman makes me regard a man as the most attractive sexual partner. (219)As a man, I am never attracted to other men. But, when I think of myself as a woman, I do fantasize about being penetrated and giving oral copulation. I would never want a relationship with a man full-time, though. (127)Some informants went still further and observed that, although they were aroused by the fantasy of having sex with a man as a woman, they actually found men or men’s bodies to be disagreeable or disgusting:By the time I was 13, I would occasionally fantasize about what it would be like to have a man between my legs with his penis inside me. It was during this erotic fantasy that I had my fi rst orgasm. Later in life I did experiment with men, but I didn’t fi nd it satisfying and actually found it a bit disgusting. (220)I live alone and often entertain men for sexual pleasure while I am dressed as a woman. I met a man who took me to dinner as a woman. I slept with him and was very much aroused by the experience. I enjoyed sucking his penis but I thought the balls were disgusting. (214) I transitioned a little over 2 years ago. I have had strong erotic fantasies in which I was a woman who was sexually submissive to a man. The thought of actualizing this fantasy does not interest me in the least. I can enjoy thinking about it to the point of orgasm, but I’d hate to do it. (186)I created a female identity on the Internet and had cybersex with many males as a woman.It felt wonderful to get them to come. This really made me feel like a woman. While cybersex is fi ne, I fi nd males unattractive and think it would be disgusting to really be with one sexually. (109)In the late 1990s, I became friends with an autogynephilic transsexual who had completed SRS; I will call her Ms. Y. She provided me with a memorable description of her sexual interaction with a male partner, and her account graphically illustrates some of the ideas discussed by the informants above. Note that some details of Ms. Y’s history have been changed to conceal her identity. Ms. Y was in her mid-40s and held a doctoral degree in a clinical behavioral science. She had been married twice to women and had been heterosexually active while living as a man.She had engaged in only incidental sexual interactions with men before transition.Attraction to Men Rarely Extends to Feelings of Romantic Love She was familiar with and accepted Blanchard’s theories about autogynephilia, but she nevertheless claimed that after her transition, her sexual interest had become directed primarily toward men. She had found a male partner with whom she was regularly sexually active. I asked her to describe what she and her partner did together sexually. She explained that her preferred sexual activity with her partner was to kneel before him, blindfolded and with her hands tied behind her back, and perform fellatio on him. It seemed to me that Ms. Y had found the perfect behavioral expression of the fantasy that many of the above informants described: She was able to have oral sex with a “faceless” man—at least a man whose face she could not see—and was required to have contact only with his penis, the only part of his anatomy necessary for her to feel that she was enacting the female sexual role.Attraction to Men Rarely Extends to Feelings of Romantic LoveSexual orientation is usually assessed by asking subjects whether they are sexually attracted to men or women. An alternative approach, possibly a superior one, is to ask subjects whether the fi rst person they fell in love with was male or female or whether they habitually fall in love with men or women (e.g., Fisher et al.,2010 ) or with boys or girls (e.g., de Vries, Steensma, Doreleijers, & Cohen-Kettenis, 2011 ) .Although many informants described sexual attraction to men, almost none raised the issue of romantic love for men, either by reporting such love or by denying it. Only one informant claimed that she sometimes fell in love with men; her unusual account is presented in detail toward the end of this chapter. A few informants speci fi cally denied that they fell in love with men. One reported that she was aroused by the fantasy of having sex with men but fell in love only with women: I started having crushes, but only on girls. This was very confusing. I dreamed and fantasized about having sex as a woman with a man penetrating my vagina, yet I still didn’t see men as being at all attractive, even though I wanted to have sex with them. I just don’t get it. Why all the cruising of personal ads for men who like girls like me, when the people I fall in love with and like to look at are women? (217)Another informant stated that she only wanted to have long-term romantic relationships with women:I have commonly loved women in long-term relationships and men in short-term relationships. At some point in transition, I began to be more attracted to women. Sex had more and more of an emotional component, and my connections with women keyed into that in a way I had never experienced before. (099)My clinical experience leads me to believe that autogynephilic transsexuals routinely fall in love with women and rarely or never fall in love with men. This is a neglected area of clinical research, however, and I am not aware of any formal investigations of this issue.Attraction to Men Sometimes Re fl ects Men’s Propensityto Mistreat WomenOne reason some autogynephilic transsexuals fi nd men attractive is that men more than women have a propensity to mistreat women and some autogynephilic transsexuals are sexually aroused by the idea of being a woman mistreated or raped by a man. MtF transsexuals are hardly unique in having sexual fantasies about being mistreated or raped or in being sexually aroused by fantasies that they would never want to experience in reality; many natal women have similar fantasies and feelings(Bivona & Critelli, 2009 ; Critelli & Bivona, 2008 ) . The point is simply that arousal to the fantasy of being mistreated or raped by a man seems to mediate some cases of autogynephilic transsexuals’ attraction to men: It is simply one more way to be a woman in relation to a man.One informant was aroused by the idea of being forced by a man to have sex against her will and being verbally degraded by men:The men in my fantasies are usually much larger than myself and extremely well-endowed.A feeling of “Oh my God, I don’t know if I can take this, but I have to continue submitting to this pseudo-rape (it’s scary, and the urge to beg him to stop is so strong) now that I’ve let him start” is the key to mind-blowing orgasms. My fantasies usually begin with the whole feminization process and proceed to my going out and prowling bars in a seedy neighborhood looking for my fi rst sexual encounter with a straight man. I often end up getting it from several men on a pool table after hours, reveling in the degrading way they talk to and about me. (060)Other informants fantasized about experiencing rape:I have several fantasies I use to achieve orgasm. One fantasy is being taken sexually by a man. I am always very feminine and totally submissive. My partner is so passionate he would simply overpower any resistance on my part. Sometimes I imagine resisting and he date rapes me. (156)I have never thought of having sex with a guy when I’m physically male. At the same time, I have fantasized myself being a woman and being gang raped. (007)Some of these fantasies contain features (e.g., being described in a degrading way) suggestive of sexual masochism, a paraphilia that commonly co-occurs with autogynephilia. I will discuss sexual masochism in autogynephilic transsexuals inmore detail in Chap. 9 .Reports of Increased Attraction to Men DuringTransition Are FrequentSeveral studies and case reports have documented that MtF transsexuals with a history of sexual attraction to women sometimes report that their self-described sexual preference has shifted toward greater (and occasionally exclusive) sexual attraction to men during the gender transition process and especially following cross-sexReports of Increased Attraction to Men During Transition Are Frequent hormone therapy or SRS (Daskalos, 1998 ; De Cuypere et al., 2005 ; Lawrence,2005 ; Muirhead-Allwood, Royle, & Young, 1999 ) . Whether this phenomenon represents a genuine change in sexual orientation or merely greater expression of the autogynephilic wish to have one’s femininity validated by a male partner is open to dispute, although I consider the latter explanation far more plausible. Sexual orien-tation in males is probably essentially immutable in adulthood (Swaab, 2007 ) .Whitam ( 1997 ) was willing to declare categorically that “it is well known that sex reassignment surgery does not change sexual orientation” (p. 202); I agree with his statement, at least as it applies to MtF transsexuals.Accordingly, I hypothesize that all or almost all reports of changes in sexual orientation by autogynephilic transsexuals simply re fl ect greater autogynephilic interest in validation of one’s femininity by a male partner, not a genuine change in somatotypic preference. The issue has received little formal study, however: I know of only one investigation in which a nonhomosexual MtF transsexual who described a change in sexual orientation toward men following SRS underwent physiologic measurement of her sexual arousal pattern in a laboratory setting (Lawrence, Latty, Chivers, & Bailey, 2005 ) . In this case, consistent with my hypothesis, measurement of neovaginal blood fl ow did not con fi rm the subject’s reported change in sexual orientation.However one interprets self-reported change in sexual orientation in autogynephilic transsexuals, several informants stated that they had experienced such a change. They often described the change in a casual, unelaborated way, as though it were the most natural thing in the world:I have never been attracted to men, but lately, I have begun to look at men in a different light. I look forward to pursuing this when I make the complete transition. (188) I’m also at the point in my evolving sexuality where, through no effort on my part, men are starting to look good. (144)I have an increasing sexual desire oriented toward men. I still have sex with women, but a sexual act with a man seems more satisfying day by day. (219)I began experimenting with sexuality with men (I never had before) and found it arousing and this has essentially replaced the female imagery as my arousal mechanism. (139) Indeed, some informants suggested that such a reversal of sexual orientation was entirely normal:Now I fi nd I am aroused far more by the opposite sex. My fantasies have evolved from my origins as male with a female before transition to me being female with a male. I look at men entirely differently now as well. I never had a desire to be with a man ever before transition and I assume that this reversal is somewhat normal for my accepting and being a woman mentally and socially. (221)I had always considered myself heterosexual. My sexual preference after starting transition actually fl ipped over to liking men for the fi rst time in my life. It felt completely normal, and I now simply considered myself a heterosexual female. (182)One informant, however, concluded that the dramatic change in her sexual orientation after transition represented the actualization of her long-standing fantasies ofbeing treated as a woman by a man and taking a woman’s sexual role in relation to a man:As a man, I was simply not attracted to men. But now, as a woman, I have found great happiness and ful fi llment being in a relationship with a wonderful man for the last 10 months.Am I still attracted to women at all? Not with him around I’m not! Reality at this point is fi nally much closer to what I have always wanted and seen in my mind. Now I am the woman having her cheeks kissed by a loving man. Now I am the woman having her breasts fondled by a man who only sees her as a beautiful woman. Now I am the woman taking her lover’s penis into her mouth. I never wanted to admit to myself or anyone what a turn on just thinking about all this was to me. (021)This informant’s description is consistent with Blanchard’s explanation that purported changes in sexual orientation in autogynephilic transsexuals re fl ect actualization of behavioral autogynephilic fantasies.Two informants explained that they believed it was possible to learn to be sexually oriented toward men, perhaps through a kind of conditioning process: If a MtFfits your description of an autogynephiliac,finds sexual relations to be theultimate validation of femininity, and is an unapologetic heterosexual, then a migration in orientation is both necessary and logical. I will even go out on a limb here to further suggest that these MtFs can actually learn to be aroused directly by men through some sort of conditioning process. If an autogynephiliac believes that the ultimate validation of a female body is to have sexual relations with a man, she then learns how to be aroused by men. (018)Even though I would love to be with a man as a woman and even have normal sex, I am not attracted physically to a man. But I might learn to like it or even love it for the man that is with me. I would love him for accepting me and that would provide the motivation to become sexually attracted to him. After all, women are not attracted to all men, only certain ones; and if the man shows them that they are loved, they are attracted even more. (215) In fact, there is a great deal of data—most of it from gay men who desperately wanted to become heterosexual—demonstrating that it is essentially impossible for men to change their sexual orientation in adulthood, through conditioning or any other means. Summarizing these data, Swaab ( 2007 ) concluded that “there can be little doubt that sexual orientation has become fi xed in adulthood and is beyond in fl uencing later” (p. 434).Repression of Genuine Attraction to Men Due to HomophobiaA few informants with a history of sexual attraction to women believed they had really been attracted to men all along (or had been destined to be so attracted) and had merely repressed their attraction to men because they had internalized the homophobic values of society:I am a pretty classic autogynephilic transsexual. Yet, I think I could have equally easily been a classic homosexual transsexual if circumstances had been slightly different. When I was younger, I was fearful of being known as a cross-dresser, but I was even more fearful of being gay. Though I had thoughts and feelings that I was attracted to men and not women,Repression of Genuine Attraction to Men Due to Homophobia I kept them more suppressed than even my wish to be female. In hindsight, I was homophobic, probably because of the environment I was raised in. Did the environmentally induced homophobia inhibit my homosexual transsexuality? I almost had an experience with a guy in 10th grade. Had I had that experience, it’s possible that I would have realized I was not attracted to women and I might have sought relationships with men. I wonder how many of the transsexuals who eventually are attracted to men actually suppress their true orientation in order to fi t into society. (222)I was very repressed. I was almost homophobic. If I was repressed and I was trained to prefer girls as acceptable behavior and trained not to prefer men, then I would outwardly and inwardly lie and prefer women. So, I would suggest that as I begin to acknowledge my transsexual nature and my true feelings, I fi nd myself more attracted to men and less to women. (074)I also eventually discovered that I really was attracted to men underneath my homophobia, and found that attraction very enjoyable and natural. (119)I admit that I enjoy being desired and made to feel attractive by straight men as a validation of my femininity. My heterosexual past was entirely due to internalized homophobia.(115)Note that this “repression of attraction to men due to internalized homophobia”explanation cannot account for the fact that the great majority of homosexual MtFtranssexuals and other homosexual males, who are also exposed to ubiquitous homophobic messages from society, somehow manage to become aware of their genuine sexual attraction to men during adolescence or early adulthood, even if they do not immediately act on their feelings. Consequently, I don’t fi nd explanations like these to be very persuasive. These explanations are, however, psychologically revealing.Why might it be important for some autogynephilic transsexuals to be able to tell themselves that they were “really” attracted to men all along or should have been? Some other informants, whose accounts appeared earlier, were perfectly content to assert that their previous attraction to women had been genuine but that their sexual orientation had simply shifted toward men as a result of social transition or cross-sex hormone therapy. I think the answer lies in the fact that any deviation from the “classic” transsexual pattern (“has felt and acted feminine from earliest childhood, has never been sexually aroused by women’s apparel, and is romantically inclined toward males”; Blanchard, Clemmensen, et al., 1985 , p. 508) can potentially feel discrediting to one’s status as a legitimate transsexual. Some of these deviations probably feel more consequential than others to particular individuals. Perhaps the informants who strongly believed that they were really attracted to men all along (or should have been) simply considered a history of sexual attraction to women to be a particularly discrediting feature. Interestingly, all of them acknowledged and most made no attempt to explain away their history of autogynephilic arousal, which many people would probably consider far more discrediting than a history of sexual attraction to women. There is still much to be learned about the elaborate explanations that autogynephilic transsexuals sometimes create to try to make sense of their feelings and histories. I will address someof these explanations in greater detail in Chap. 10 .An Autogynephilic Transsexual “Exclusively Attracted to Men”(with Limitations)One unusual narrative was submitted by a self-described autogynephilic transsexual who also described herself as “exclusively sexually attracted to men.” She had been evaluated at the former Clarke Institute of Psychiatry in Toronto (“the Clarke”), where Blanchard conducted his pioneering studies of autogynephilia in the 1980s and 1990s. She was familiar with Blanchard’s theory and accepted much but not all of it. She stated that she fell in love with and was attracted to men—at least some men—because she was attracted to their spirits, albeit not to their bodies. This informant also stated that she loved another MtF transsexual because she admired her con fi dence and found her beautiful, despite not being attracted to her body. This informant further conjectured that her love for and attraction to some individuals might be mediated by their gender-atypical traits. Her account is lengthy but fascinating:There’s a boy where I go to school who I think is absolutely smashing. I was talking to another student, Heather, who is married with two children, saying how amazing I thought it was that she was able to balance all these things. The boy turned to us and said, “She’s a better woman than I am.” We all just about died laughing! But what I saw in him was such incredible support for his friend and such con fi dence in himself without being fearful for his gender. I just thought he was the most magni fi cent and wonderful man I had ever met (although I have to admit that it doesn’t hurt either that he holds doors open for me and wishes me a nice day all the time). The point is that, although there always seems to be a gender-bending connection, I am directly attracted to him. I think he’s amazing! But I do concede that my attraction stems from an attraction to his spirit, not his body. Likewise, there is a transsexual woman of my acquaintance who I think is without a doubt the most beautiful woman I’ve ever met. She projects such femininity and self-con fi dence. I think she’s incredible. When I was a patient at the Clarke, they placed so much emphasis on “are you attracted to men, or are you an autogynephile?” My response was that I was exclusively sexually attracted to men, but I am an autogynephile. They said, “But these men you think about—they’re faceless, aren’t they?” What I’m saying is, that isn’t the case. I fall in love with and am attracted to real live men. (I’m not saying I think my transsexual friend is a man; I am saying I love her but I’m not sexually attracted to her body). Perhaps, though, my autogynephilia is somehow connected with a love and appreciation of people who don’t follow the gender scripts they’re handed. (123)Although this informant claimed that she was “exclusively sexually attracted to[some] men,” she seemed to be attracted to their personality traits (e.g., their supportiveness, self-con fi dence, and androgyny), not their physical traits. This is such an unusual and idiosyncratic use of the term “sexual attraction” that it renders the informant’s description of her sexual orientation almost meaningless. But the phrase“exclusively sexually attracted to men” has been widely used in the professional literature about MtF transsexualism, and it has historically functioned almost as a“seal of approval” in certain gender programs. It was—and in a few programs still is—how one needed to describe oneself in order to be taken seriously as a MtFtranssexual. It is understandable, then, why some autogynephilic transsexuals would want to claim this speci fi c description, whether or not it is genuinely applicable to them according to conventional de fi nitions.An Autogynephilic Transsexual with Substantial Sexual Experience with Men It is also interesting to notice that this informant, generalizing from her attraction to an androgynous man and her love for another MtF transsexual, pointed to a “gender-bending connection” as the common thread. This is plausible, of course, and it sounds progressive and avant-garde. But another common thread—if one were willing to be politically incorrect—might be “some masculine traits in evidence”; this might arguably be what one would expect from someone supposedly exclusively sexually attracted to men, and its absence is telling. As one who accepts Blanchard’s theories, I tend to notice another common thread, “some feminine traits in evidence.” I believe that autogynephilic transsexuals tend to fall in love with women; consequently, the men they are likely to fi nd most appealing should be those who most closely resemble women, especially in their physical characteristics.An Autogynephilic Transsexual with Substantial SexualExperience with MenBecause autogynephilia is theorized to be a misdirected form of attraction to women, it would be logical—and correct, I believe—to conclude that the primary sexual orientation of autogynephilic transsexuals who declare themselves attracted to men is toward women and that their supposed attraction to men is wholly a secondary phenomenon, mediated entirely by autogynephilia. One might consequently assume that autogynephilic transsexuals who engage in sex with men are likely to have only a few male partners and that their sexual activity with men is likely to be rare and of little real importance.As a statistical generalization, this is not entirely incorrect. For example, in astudy of 232 MtF transsexuals who had completed SRS (Lawrence, 2005 ) , I observed that, among 92 MtF transsexuals who were behaviorally bisexual before SRS (i.e., who reported at least 1 male and 1 female partner), the median number of female partners before SRS was 7, whereas the median number of male partners before SRS was only 3, with one-third of the participants reporting only 1 male partner.There were some notable exceptions to this pattern, however: 8 (9%) of the bisexual participants reported 11–20 male partners and 2 (2%) reported 21 or more male partners. These latter respondents reported considerable experience with men by almost any measure.Some autogynephilic transsexuals not only report substantial sexual experience with men but may have had many more male than female partners and may even have identi fi ed as homosexual men in the past. The following narrative excerpt was submitted by an informant with such a history:I am 38 years old and 8 months postoperative. I had begun cross-dressing as a child and had fantasized about being female. From puberty onwards, I was sexually aroused by the idea of being a woman, wearing women’s clothes, and being made love to as a woman by a man.I identi fi ed early (age 12 or 13) as gay or bisexual. I did not date as a teen and was very friendly with girls. I was not particularly effeminate and physically fi tted in well with men.At college, I came out and had numerous affairs with men and, surprisingly, women (much less, more awkward). In college, I met a woman, fell in love, and married. We had two children, and I stopped cross-dressing for 7 or 8 years. With the birth of my fi rst child, a girl, I began to dress again. This continued through the birth of our second child, a girl also.Throughout this time, I was most turned on by the idea of being made love to as a woman by a man. However, I still conceived of these fantasies in terms of homosexual relationships (penises played a big role—mutual penetration and oral sex). At around 30, I began to attend transgender support groups. At this time, in my sexual fantasies, I fi rst conceived of myself as a female being made love to by a man. After my marriage broke up, I dated men.The turn-on was the idea of being accepted by them as female. At that time, I met my current partner. He stayed with me through surgery and we are happily living together. Today, I am powerfully sexually excited by the idea of being desired by men and by the notion of being thought of as beautiful. Thus, I suppose I am still sexually motivated. Yet the turn on is not me but to attract others—in particular men, but I also enjoy being able to attract lesbians. (216)This MtF transsexual stated that she identi fi ed as gay or bisexual at puberty, engaged in numerous affairs with men in college, entered into an unsuccessful marriage with a woman, subsequently resumed dating men, and successfully partnered with a man after SRS. A clinician who did not elicit this informant’s history of sexual arousal with cross-dressing and cross-gender fantasy, lack of childhood effeminacy, numerous affairs with women, and falling in love with a woman might mistakenly conclude that the informant was a typical androphilic MtF transsexual. A clinician who elicited these historical details but was not attuned to the fact that the real turn-on for the informant was not her male partners’ bodies but the idea that they accepted and treated her as a woman (i.e., that she was not genuinely androphilic) might mistakenly conclude that the informant was both autogynephilic and androphilic.Consequently, it is important for clinicians to bear in mind that some autogynephilic transsexuals have considerable sexual experience with men. When evaluating behaviorally bisexual MtF transsexuals, it is important to ask about a history of autogynephilic arousal, who they habitually fall in love with, and what element of sex with men—their partners’ bodies or the validation of one’s womanhood that male partners provide—is experienced as primarily arousing.Making Sense of Autogynephilic Attraction to MenA few years ago, I was consulted by a gender dysphoric male client with a history similar to those given by many of the informants in this chapter. He was married to a woman, and he had engaged in several romantic relationships with women before marriage. He had never been attracted to a man while presenting himself as a man.He had not been effeminate as a child, he had served in the military in an elite combat unit, and he held two advanced degrees in the physical sciences. By his own description, he experienced transvestic, anatomic, and behavioral autogynephilia, but the last of these predominated. His most intense erotic arousal came from engaging in sex with men while presenting himself as a woman. His intelligence was in the very superior range, and he had read most of what I had written and much of whatMaking Sense of Autogynephilic Attraction to MenBlanchard had written about autogynephilia. His presenting concern was deciding whether or not he was “really” androphilic—sexually oriented toward men.It seemed evident to me that this client was not genuinely androphilic: He was clearly an autogynephilic man whose most intense source of erotic arousal involved the most common type of behavioral autogynephilia, autogynephilic interpersonal fantasy involving a male partner. But what was evident to me was not at all evident to this client, even though he was probably more intelligent than 99.9% of the population and had read more about autogynephilia than most psychologists and psychiatrists who specialize in the treatment of gender dysphoria. The most intense and rewarding sexual experiences of this man’s life had involved sex with male partners.How could he not wonder whether his real sexual attraction was toward men? His uncertainty about an issue that seemed so straightforward to me was a reminder of how profoundly confusing this type of behavioral autogynephilia can be, even to highly intelligent, well-informed people. Eventually, this client recognized that he was not genuinely androphilic, but this realization occurred only gradually.Unfortunately, I suspect the kind of confusion this client experienced is likely to remain widespread among autogynephilic gender dysphoric men for the foreseeable future, for several reasons. First, many professionals who specialize in the treatment of gender dysphoria dismiss Blanchard’s ideas about autogynephilia for reasons that are primarily political rather than scienti fi c: that is, because his ideas “directly contradict basic tenets of the worldwide transgender movement” (Nuttbrock, Bockting,Mason, et al., 2011 , p. 249). Consequently, these professionals are not attuned to the concept of behavioral autogynephilia manifesting as a desire for sex with men; they are unlikely to ask about it or recognize it and are unlikely to be willing or able to educate their clients about it.Second, there exists a naive but prevalent belief that sexual orientation in nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals can sometimes genuinely change, especially after cross-sex hormone therapy, in contrast to the more skeptical view that this treatment merely sets the stage for more con fi dent misinterpretation and misreporting of an underlying sexual orientation that not only remains unchanged but is, in fact, unchangeable. Consider this passage by Meyer-Bahlburg ( 2010 ) , who is one of the smartest and best informed gender specialists in the world:One feature of animal models of the sexual differentiation of brain and behavior that has not yet found suf fi cient consideration in human research on gender development is the observation in rats that males have the neural circuitry of all aspects of female sexual behavior. That circuitry is usually blocked by perinatal sex-hormonal defeminization, but can be activated by the induction of an atypical sex-hormone milieu in adulthood (de Vries & Södersten,2009 ) . Perhaps related mechanisms…contribute to the sexual orientation change observed in many trans[sexual] persons after onset of cross-gender hormone treatment. (p. 466) Does female sexual behavior in rats (i.e., lordosis) really provide a useful model for something as complex as androphilic sexual orientation in humans? What about the fact that the female sexual behavior that de Vries and Södersten ( 2009 ) referred to had been elicited by a very speci fi c combination of estrogen and progesterone that is quite unlike the type of cross-sex hormone therapy that most MtF transsexuals receive? Meyer-Bahlburg’s statement demonstrates that even knowledgeableexperts will sometimes clutch at straws to avoid the unpleasant conclusion that most or all nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals who report a change in sexual orientation after hormone therapy are simply engaging in unintentional self-deception. The willingness of some serious scholars to suggest that sexual orientation in nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals is potentially malleable lends an air of validity to the idea that a formerly heterosexual man could actually become genuinely androphilic.Third and fi nally, the belief that some nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals experience a change in their sexual orientation can serve as a basis for rejecting all sexual orientation-based typologies of MtF transsexualism (see Cohen-Kettenis & Pfäf fl in,2010 ) , including Blanchard’s. Such a blanket rejection lends credence to the idea that Blanchard’s concept of autogynephilia and his MtF transsexual typology are simply inapplicable to many nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals. It thereby gives some clinicians a further excuse not to take the concept of autogynephilia seriously and not to learn about it, ask about it, or educate their clients about it.Can anything change this state of affairs? Perhaps the accumulation of more narratives like the ones in this chapter can eventually effect a change. These narratives demonstrate that the “attraction to men” that some autogynephilic transsexuals experience looks nothing like genuine androphilia. Unlike genuine androphilia, autogynephilic attraction to men is validation seeking rather than object seeking; it values faceless abstractions over real male bodies, which are experienced as unappealing or disgusting; and it rarely, if ever, extends to romantic love. These characteristics are indeed manifestations of a sexual orientation, but that sexual orientation is autogynephilia, not androphilia.The narratives submitted by the transsexual informants addressed several other aspects of autogynephilic sexuality in addition to those discussed in the previous chapters. Many informants observed that autogynephilic fantasies were always or almost always necessary to achieve orgasm in all sexual situations, including during masturbation. Some described autogynephilic arousal as being, at least at times, unpleasant, psychologically distressing, or unwanted. Informants reported a variety of unpleasant feelings immediately following orgasms that had been achieved with the help of autogynephilic fantasies. Several narratives discussed the effects of feminizing hormone therapy on autogynephilic arousal. Others described additional paraphilic sexual interests that co-occurred with autogynephilia.Autogynephilic Fantasies Required for OrgasmAs noted in Chap. 7 , several informants reported that autogynephilic fantasies were always necessary to achieve orgasm during sexual intercourse with female partners.Still others observed that achieving orgasm was contingent on autogynephilic fantasies in all sexual situations, including during masturbation. Here are some representative excerpts:As an adolescent and young adult, I would often masturbate, but I couldn’t get aroused without picturing myself as a woman. It is still impossible for me to have an orgasm without some form of autogynephilic fantasy. (056)From a sexual standpoint, I can not have an orgasm unless I am thinking about being a woman. (223)I have never been able to orgasm without thinking of being a woman. (049) For me, sex always involved visualizing myself being a woman in some variation: clothes, sexual situations, genitalia, breasts, the whole gamut. I still cannot orgasm without visualizing something about being a woman. (224)One individual conceded that she had managed to climax a few times without resort to an autogynephilic fantasy but that such occurrences had been rare: Just about every time I masturbated, I’d be fantasizing about being a woman, being transformed into a woman, or having sex with a woman while being one, too. I can count on one hand the times I successfully masturbated to the thought of having sex with a woman being a man, and those times it was through speed alone (having a limp dick) that I was able to climax. (225)Altogether, about two dozen transsexual informants—roughly 10%—spontaneously volunteered that autogynephilic fantasies were always or almost always necessary to achieve orgasm during masturbation or partnered sex, even though the issue of obligatory reliance on autogynephilic fantasies for orgasm was never asked about or alluded to in any of the survey solicitations.Discomfort with Autogynephilic ArousalGender dysphoric men and other men who cross-dress sometimes report that sexual arousal associated with cross-dressing is unwanted or bothersome (Blanchard &Clemmensen, 1988 ; Buhrich, 1978 ) . In the current study, several informants similarly reported that they disliked or were made uncomfortable by autogynephilic arousal. Some stated that their autogynephilic feelings made them feel driven, were intrusive, or interfered with their concentration:I was extremely autogynephilic. My fantasies were of my feminization, which still continue, despite not having testosterone. My sexual urges have virtually disappeared since surgery.I hope I get horny again, but I am very happy not to be as driven as I once was. (136) Every day is a constant fi ght between the things that I have to do and the autogynephilia that creates disruptive thoughts. It is not easy to study when your mind pops up thoughts of being a girl. It is impossible to concentrate at your job when you envy the pantyhose that a stranger outside wore. It is hard to maintain a healthy relationship with your girlfriend when you envy her for being female. (006)The latter narrative implied that both autogynephilic erotic arousal and the intrusive feelings of envy and longing it caused were experienced as disruptive factors.Other informants observed that autogynephilic arousal acted as an unpleasant reminder of their unwanted maleness:I am 23 years post-op. I would like to distinguish between the sense of well-being resulting from being a girl and the sexual arousal of a male body. The former was always welcome; the latter wasn’t. If fantasy or crossdressing was leading to arousal, I’d generally either try to avoid it or speed it up to get it out of the way. (138)I began crossdressing when I was 10. I was having a shower and my sister’s bathing suit was hanging there. I put it on and had an erection; it felt nice to wear it, but I hated my penis.I wanted the erection to go away. For the next 9 years, my cross-dressing increased, the erections persisted, and I continued to hate my penis. (214)Postorgasmic Reactions: Disgust, Remorse, and Remission of Gender Dysphoria Like many others, I, too, have always had these feelings of arousal at the mere thoughts associated with being female. And it always pissed me off! I hated that putting on a dress or wearing other feminine attire or even just fantasizing about being a normal woman would elicit such an “un-female” response both physically and mentally. I wanted so badly for the things I was doing to simply be and feel normal. I didn’t want to be aroused by them!Because of my attitude, I never felt right feeding these reactions to cross-dressing by masturbating during them. I was therefore never fetishistic with any clothing or with anything, a fact I took comfort and pride in. (021)These narratives suggested that the informants found autogynephilic arousal to be both physically distressing and invalidating to their cross-gender identities.Practical considerations, especially the dif fi culties of wearing women’s clothing in the presence of an erection, were also emphasized in some narratives: Two years ago, I started wearing my mother’s clothes, particularly her underwear. Every time I used her clothes, I had erections. I do not like having erections during my crossdressing sessions; sometimes I let my mother’s underwear somehow get wet. I try not to have these erections doing my cross-dressing sessions; a big penis makes it hard to put on skirts and look feminine. It is not something I like and I de fi nitely prefer not having them.(207)I would guiltily sneak into my mother’s closet when she was away and wear as many combinations of her clothes as possible. I was almost always turned on by it, but I mostly did not masturbate. Instead, I’d condemn my penis for getting in the way. My friends still can’t understand why I hate my penis so damn much, even after I told them that I am very committed to the idea of becoming a woman. Wearing women’s clothing is always something that initially turns me on, but when that damn penis of mine eventually becomes fl accid, I feel very comfortable and natural. (003)In the early days, I would become aroused whenever anyone—a sales clerk, a casual stranger—would address me as “Ma’am” or perform some courtesy, such as holding a door for me. This arousal led to a heightened fear of discovery, i.e., that my erection would give me away. (001)When I reached adolescence, I started cross-dressing discretely and would get aroused and masturbate. After the sexual part of the experience, I would remain dressed as long as was safe, glad that I didn’t have an erection to ruin the lines of the dress or skirt. (056) Taken together, these accounts make it clear that autogynephilic transsexuals do not always enjoy autogynephilic arousal but sometimes experience it as invalidating, distressing, inconvenient, or otherwise undesirable.Postorgasmic Reactions: Disgust, Remorse,and Remission of Gender DysphoriaSeveral informants described their feelings immediately following orgasms that were associated with cross-dressing or cross-gender fantasies. Many reported temporary remission of their gender dysphoria, feelings of disgust or remorse about their cross-dressing or cross-gender fantasies, or a combination of these.Consequently, they not infrequently tried to avoid having orgasms or postponed them for as long as possible. Some narratives emphasized negative feelings immediately following orgasm:I went for extended periods with no sex or masturbation, because I believed that being aroused by sex-change fantasies was a mental illness. Also, I found that orgasms immediately made me feel masculine and ruined the feminine fantasy. (119)Though I liked the pleasure associated with orgasm, I did not like the feeling afterward.I felt dirty, and for a short time after it lowered the intensity of my cross-gender feelings.Because of these feelings, I masturbated infrequently, mostly to get rid of sexual energy that had no other outlet. (222)Eventually I was completely taken over with my feminization fantasies. There were times the urge to be transformed into a female was overwhelming. After I shaved my legs or took a Premarin pill, I would climax and suddenly feel dirty and disgusted with myself. I kept having these fantasies, and I couldn’t help it. (097)Many years ago, before hormone therapy, I did obtain a certain sexual satisfaction from cross-dressing. I masturbated to orgasm with thoughts of being a woman and having a woman’s body. But immediately afterwards, I always felt a crushing loss that the fantasy was not a reality. I loathed the sight of my male-shaped body and face so much I couldn’t bear to look in a mirror. (062)When I was younger, after orgasm I felt rather ashamed about my thoughts. I began to cross-dress so I could better imagine myself as female, and after orgasm I would rush to remove all traces of womanliness from my body. I was embarrassed and didn’t want to be caught doing something wrong. (066)Other informants emphasized the dramatic and almost instantaneous, albeit only temporary, remission of their gender dysphoria or desire to be female: I was surprised by the abrupt alternation of my feelings that occurred in fractions of seconds when an “en femme” session ended with an ejaculation (and most of the time I ended masturbating). Before orgasm, I was ready to sacri fi ce everything to become a woman. And suddenly, after having an orgasm, the feeling was totally reversed! I was fl ooded with powerful remorseful feeling, which made me unhappy and miserable. (006) I wanted to be a girl since age 5 or 6. Although my desires did not begin as sexual, sex certainly became the focus. I found that, after orgasm, my entire thoughts on the subject reversed. I couldn’t believe I could think that I wanted to be a girl! Within minutes, however, my “normal” state of mind returned. (112)Every time I have an orgasm, including to this day, the strong sexual urge to imagine myself as a woman goes away completely. It is like fl ipping off a light switch in my brain. Then, anywhere from a couple of hours to many days later, it always reappears. I have noticed that during periods of great stress, the length of time it takes for these feelings of autogynephilia to return is shortened. (127)When the woman sexual feeling is aroused in me, I can’t make myself not act on it. When ejaculation happens, I always lose my woman sexual feeling, and I really hate this. I feel guilty and don’t know what to do. My mind becomes that of a man again for a while, and this is so confusing. (226)A few informants, aware that their desire to be female would quickly if only temporarily dissipate once orgasm occurred, tried to prolong their feelings of sexual arousal and their resulting desire to be female for as long as possible by postponing or avoiding orgasm.Postorgasmic Remission of Gender Dysphoria Implies that Transsexualism Is Paraphilic I knew that as soon as an orgasm was achieved, the desire to be female would disappear for a time. For that reason, I often tried to delay orgasm or avoided orgasm at all. Whole weeks sometimes passed before I masturbated. All this time, I went out wearing female underwear under my clothes and generally tried to do normal female activities, avoiding masturbation and orgasm. (006)Autogynephilic gender dysphoric clients I have seen in my practice have also described postponing or avoiding orgasm in order to prolong their feelings of sexual arousal and their resulting desire to be female. We ordinarily tend to think about erotic desire and sexual arousal as emotional/motivational states that prepare individuals for action—speci fi cally, in the case of men, for sexual behavior leading to ejaculation and orgasm (Janssen, 2011 ) . Consequently, it might seem counterintuitive that a person would try to prolong these feeling states, rather than trying to promptly discharge or resolve them through orgasmic release.I can think of at least two plausible reasons, however, why autogynephilic gender dysphoric men might enjoy the feeling of autogynephilic arousal and the resulting desire to be female and want to prolong it, apart from simple avoidance of any dysphoric feelings associated with orgasm itself. First, experiencing autogynephilic arousal or the autogynephilic desire to be female can potentially reduce stress by concentrating the individual’s attention and directing it away from unpleasant feelings or cognitions. As Docter ( 1988 ) noted, “by having something speci fi c to concentrate upon, the unpleasant or anxiety-laden thoughts, which are derived from our daily experience, are somehow pushed into the distant background” (p. 118). Docter went on to observe that “both transvestism and transsexualism are, in part, mood altering behavioral strategies. They generate pleasurable excitement and a sense of well-being” (p. 118). It is hardly surprising that individuals would seek to prolong such feelings of pleasurable excitement and well-being. Second, to the extent that autogynephilic arousal and the autogynephilic desire to be female are “action tendencies,” they can plausibly motivate other desired behaviors, not merely their discharge through orgasm. For example, a few of my patients have told me that they are more likely to adhere to their weight loss and exercise regimens and save money for feminizing surgical procedures when they can maintain or prolong their feelings of autogynephilic arousal and their associated autogynephilic desire to be female.Postorgasmic Remission of Gender Dysphoria Impliesthat Transsexualism Is ParaphilicA few informants independently concluded that the rapid disappearance of their gender dysphoria following orgasm con fi rmed that their cross-gender wishes were a direct outgrowth of their autogynephilic sexual desires and, by implication, that their transsexualism was a paraphilic phenomenon:Something that I have not seen anybody write about with regard to autogynephilia is the phenomenon of the urge to be a woman disappearing for a time just after sexual climax.I fi nd that before and during masturbation, the feelings of autogynephilia are very strong,and I fi nd myself wishing that this feeling would continue after climax. Yet in almost every instance, I can feel it ebb away, much to my chagrin. This lessening of the feeling of autogynephilia right after orgasm may seem a trivial and frivolous matter, but it is of importance to me because it relates to my opinion of how “serious” I am about wanting to be a woman.It makes me think that somehow it is more of a sexual perversion than a true wish, even though the autogynephilic feelings usually return fairly quickly (but sometimes recede for days at a time). (212)When my longing to be a woman becomes more than I can bear, I resort to masturbation.The result of my masturbation is a decrease in my desperate desire to live as a woman. That yearning never goes away, but it is controllable with sexual release. I consummate my feelings with fantasy and masturbation, the sense of urgency decreases, and I carry on with my unsatisfactory life. This makes me more aware of the vicious circle I am in. My sexual roller-coaster has undermined my belief in my essentially transsexual nature. Clearly, my transsexual feelings are intimately intertwined with my sexual desires. (175) The assumption implicit in both of these narratives is that transsexual desires that are “true” or genuine should not be evanescent; they should not suddenly recede, even temporarily, after a sexual climax. The disappearance or signi fi cant diminution of one’s desire to be a woman immediately after orgasm, even if it is temporary, feels like incontrovertible evidence that this desire is an erotic phenomenon: One’s desire to be a woman seemingly requires a certain level of sexual drive or tension to exist, because when sexual tension falls to zero immediately after an orgasm, the desire to be a woman falls to zero or greatly diminishes, too.I admire the keen insight and fearless honesty of these informants. They accurately observed that in their own cases, as in autogynephilic transsexualism generally, the desire to be a woman is a paraphilic phenomenon, deeply entwined with autogynephilic erotic desire. I differ with these informants, however, concerning their assumption that one’s desire to be a woman is somehow less true or genuine if it derives from a paraphilia (i.e., autogynephilia). Many or most cases of MtF transsexualism in Western countries occur in nonhomosexual individuals, most of whom are putatively autogynephilic. In my clinical experience, autogynephilic transsexuals unquestionably suffer from real gender dysphoria, exhibit strongly held cross-gender identities, and experience their autogynephilic sexual orientations as essential aspects of their personalities.Although autogynephilic arousal and gender dysphoria are sometimes present from an early age, it apparently takes time and experience for autogynephilic men to develop strong, persistent cross-gender identities—ones that will not disappear, even temporarily, following orgasm. Docter’s(1988 ) studies of autogynephiliccross-dressers and transsexuals, discussed in Chap. 5 , revealed that autogynephilicmen typically develop strong, persistent cross-gender identities only after years or decades of experience with cross-dressing. Once this has occurred, however, these cross-gender identities feel like and operate as powerful forces in the lives of the autogynephilic transsexuals who experience them. In particular, these cross-gender identities become strong enough to withstand the temporary reduction in autogynephilic arousal that follows orgasm.Effects of Hormone TherapyEffects of Hormone TherapyFeminizing hormone therapy, which usually consists of estrogen with or without an antiandrogen, exerts its effects not only through the feminizing effects of estrogen but also through the demasculinizing effects of decreased testosterone production.Both estrogen and antiandrogens act to decrease testosterone levels. The diminution of male sex drive that occurs with hormone therapy is a direct result of decreased testosterone levels.Several informants described the effects of feminizing hormone therapy on their sex drives, autogynephilic feelings, gender identities, and cross-gender behaviors.Some reported a gratifying loss of sex drive and autogynephilic arousal with hormone therapy:I used to fi nd the idea of being a girl erotically arousing. In the UK, we are usually prescribed Androcur, an antiandrogen. Within quite a short time of commencing the Androcur, my male sex drive began to lessen and soon went away completely. I was quite happy about this, and it was part of my intention. In consequence, I was no longer aroused by my own body or the prospects of becoming female. I realize that there is a possibility I may no longer be able to achieve orgasm when postoperative. This has never deterred me, since I believe I’m motivated by the need, the desire, to be female, rather than by the possibilities of sexual grati fi cation. (227)I’ve experienced autogynephilia strongly while wearing women’s clothes. I went to my doctor and asked if she could give me anything to stop my strong sexual feelings. She warned me that my sex drive would go and my desire to dress might also go. My compulsion to dress did not alter, just my sex drive, which I hated anyway. I went on to live full-time as a woman, and I’m due for SRS at the end of the year. (201)I am using hormones simultaneously to suppress my libido, which drives me to distraction, while achieving as much feminization as possible. I am totally infatuated with what development I have achieved. (193)All of these informants stated that one of their reasons for wanting feminizing hormone therapy was to reduce or eliminate their unwanted sex drive, in addition to the physical feminization hormone therapy provided. Their statements are consistent with several previous narratives that described autogynephilic sexual feelings as sometimes distressing or invalidating. Two of the informants stated or implied that their desire to live as women had continued unchanged, despite the reduction in their sexual feelings: Evidently their cross-gender identities were strong and persistent enough to survive the reduction or elimination of autogynephilic sexual desire.Other informants painted a more complicated picture: They not only lost their sex drive but also their cross-gender identi fi cation or their desire to continue hormone therapy:I used to take hormones, birth control pills. The fi rst time was about 2 years ago. It started with a very intense woman-pressure. I went to the drug store and told the seller what I needed. I got home and began to take it daily, one by one. When the pills were almost gone, my woman sex emotion was suddenly gone, too. I hated this feeling and didn’t know what to do next. (226)After 4 months on hormones my old male urge to “jerk off” ceased. I was very pleased over this at the time. My breasts were just starting to develop and I felt fi t and sexy. But—nothing seemed to work. My nipples were just too sensitive at the time, and I seemed to lose all my sexual fantasies as well. It was hard to masturbate at all in the old way, and if I did get an erection, it was labored and felt afterwards like someone had placed an iron band around it.In this case there was little incentive to continue. (087)In the latter case, the informant’s loss of the ability to enjoy a satisfying sexual response felt like a suf fi cient reason to discontinue hormone therapy, despite her satisfaction with the physical feminization and reduction in sex drive that hormone therapy produced.Another informant lost both her sex drive and her desire to transition after 3 months of hormone therapy. She concluded that her desire to live as a woman was an outgrowth of her autogynephilic sex drive:Last year, things progressed to the point where I left my wife and began living full time, taking hormones and antiandrogens. After I had been taking the hormones and antiandrogens for 3 months, I totally lost my sex drive. That’s when I got lonely and missed my wife, and she was more than willing to have me come back. That was 8 months ago, and now that my sex drive is back to normal, I am again struggling. I think about going back to living full-time as a woman, an experience that more than exceeded my wildest dreams. This desire does not go away, but the hormones caused me to lose my desire temporarily. I would only be satis fi ed with a level of hormones and antiandrogens that would maximize my transformation. I don’t want the male sex drive. I don’t like my male body and the body hair. But even though it is such a pleasant, wonderful feeling when I am fully transformed into a woman, that feeling unfortunately is generated from my male sex drive. I would end up the same way again if I tried to transition. (215)This informant described one of the key dilemmas that many autogynephilic gender dysphoric men confront: They are troubled by their sex drive, but their desire to be a woman (and to continue to use hormones) disappears when their sex drive disappears.A physician informant similarly described how her desire to cross-dress waxed and waned with her changing testosterone levels. In her case, this was caused by the addition or withdrawal of transdermal testosterone following her orchiectomy, rather than by stopping or starting feminizing hormones:I am a licensed, board certi fi ed surgeon who is transgendered. I want to describe my recent discovery of the overwhelming (and seemingly contradictory) role of testosterone in this process. During my entire life, I have had the strong desire to be female and make a sex transition. I had a persistent desire to cross-dress and did so from as early as I can remember. Although I was excited to get dressed in female clothing, once dressed, I was always very relaxed and any emotional excitement subsided. I found hormone therapy very comfortable. Although I have taken hormone therapy for several months at a time, I have never been on hormones for more than 3 months continuously. During those times, however, I never experienced a decrease in the desire to dress in female clothing. I became comfortable with a plan for a slow transition and felt I was ready.Approximately 18 months ago, I had a bilateral orchiectomy, as I felt it would make the transition easier and would allow me to use lower doses of estrogen. Even without any hormone therapy, the physical changes became progressive and dramatic. My body hair almost totally disappeared, my skin became smoother, and I began to lose muscle mass and strength. Around this time, I found it necessary to brie fl y postpone the fi nal transition.Effects of Hormone TherapyInterestingly, I totally lost the drive to cross-dress. I was still comfortable dressed as a female, I just lacked the urge to do so. When I developed rather troubling symptoms of hot fl ashes and sweats and I began using the new topical testosterone, the drive and urge to crossdress again became prominent. I was fascinated with this fi nding; I tried again, stopping and starting testosterone (without taking any estrogen) and the phenomenon repeated.I know that this is a one-person experiment and that I am not an unbiased observer. However, I am expert in conducting controlled clinical trials. The point is that the result was totally unexpected, and although I believe I have read just about every article on transsexualism, transgender, and transvestism, I have never seen it mentioned. (147) One could hardly ask for a more convincing demonstration that the desire to cross-dress that autogynephilic men experience is a sexual phenomenon—one that increases in strength with the administration of testosterone.Yet another informant described how a high dose of estrogen and antiandrogen eliminated both her libido and her desire to present as a woman, whereas a low dose of estrogen—insuf fi cient to completely suppress testosterone—preserved her desire to present as a woman:From the earliest time I can recall, I felt like I wanted to be female. I wore my sister’s clothes in secret and sometimes under my normal clothes. Cross-dressing usually involved a pattern of dressing up, masturbating, and intense feelings of guilt and shame. An on-line gender therapist suggested I take Diane-35 [an estrogen/progesterone combination] to help alleviate the tensions I felt. I started taking it and, to my surprise, these worked just like they were described. My libido went down, my erections were nil, and I even lost the compulsion to present as a woman. Because of the risks of Diane-35, I later switched to 1 mg estradiol per day, an intentionally low dose. Estradiol has had a calming effect and I am a much happier person when I am on it. While I was on Diane-35, I was happy and had no sex drive at all and little or no desire to present as a woman. Now on estradiol, I feel good, but I still want to present as a female. Testosterone drives my libido. When I get horny, I want to look as much like a female as I can. This would explain the compelling desire to present as a woman. (228)I have observed this same phenomenon in a few autogynephilic transsexual clients in my practice, who began feminizing hormone therapy and initially found the experience very gratifying. If they stayed on a low dose of estrogen, they continued to fi nd the mild feminizing effects satisfying, and their desire to transition remained strong.But if they began taking fully feminizing doses of estrogen and antiandrogen, which reduced their testosterone levels to the normal female range, their desire to transition suddenly disappeared. After they discontinued feminizing hormones and their testosterone levels returned to normal a few months later, their desire to transition reappeared. Sometimes this cycle occurred more than once in the same client.Although some autogynephilic clients lose their desire to transition after taking fully feminizing doses of hormones, others do not: Their desire to transition remains strong, even after the complete loss of their sex drive and associated autogynephilic arousal. I hypothesize that individuals are more likely to want to continue hormone therapy and gender transition, despite a complete loss of sex drive and autogynephilic arousal, if their gender dysphoria is more intense, of longer duration (and therefore associated with stronger and more persistent cross-gender identi fi cation), and more intensely focused on anatomical features (i.e., driven primarily by anatomic autogynephilia). I am not aware of any formal research on this issue, however.Co-occurring ParaphiliasParaphilias tend to cluster or co-occur: Men with one paraphilia have an increasedlikelihood of having one or more other paraphilias as well (Abel & Osborn, 1992 ; Wilson & Gosselin, 1980 ) . Because autogynephilia is conceptualized as a paraphilic phenomenon, it is not surprising that many informants described other paraphilias as well. These included sexual masochism and forced feminization, gynemimetophilia and gynandromorphophilia (attraction to feminized men), pedophilia, autonepiophilia (infantilism or adult baby syndrome), abasiophilia and autoabasiophilia (leg brace paraphilia), and unspeci fi ed paraphilias.Sexual MasochismSexual masochism is a paraphilic sexual interest in which affected individuals are intensely sexually aroused by fantasies or behaviors involving “being humiliated, beaten, bound, or otherwise made to suffer” (APA, 2000 , p. 573). A few reports have suggested that sexual masochism not uncommonly occurs in association withMtF transsexualism (e.g., Bolin, 1988 ; Walworth, 1997 ) , although these reports have not distinguished between homosexual and autogynephilic subtypes.In the current study, some informants described masochistic fantasies or believed that there were connections between their autogynephilic feelings and sexual masochism.One thing I can af fi rm about autogynephilia, based on my personal experience with it: It has a masochistic dimension to it. Being feminized is perceived as humiliation, and this sense of humiliation is a basic ingredient of the sexual turn-on. (102)My school age fantasies always started off something like, “Will she tie me up and then when can I dress up like her?” Since junior high school, I have been involved in relationships that involved cross-dressing and being submissive. I had my fi rst experience at with a 16-year-old girlfriend; she was dominant. The understanding of the sexual desire to be a woman is so clear when I am doing sadomasochism. I somehow feel a punishment for not being a woman and yet can get as close to a woman as possible. (178) One informant described masochistic fantasies during adolescence involving dismemberment and dehumanization—fantasizing herself as a female farm animal being butchered. These fantasies later evolved to emphasize having female genitals: I grew up on a farm. I was masturbating by around age 13 or 14. My fi rst fantasy was that I was a cow and my penis was the teat of a female cow. Then I imagined I was a mother sheep and I ended up getting slaughtered, because animals on farms get that done to them.I saw myself as all these pieces of meat. I thought this probably was not a very good thing to fantasize about. I developed the fantasy about having a vagina, which still remains. (229) The evolution of this informant’s fantasies provides an example of an interesting phenomenon in which very distressing or ego-dystonic paraphilic fantasies sometimes become superseded by less distressing, more acceptable ones. The paraphilicCo-occurring Paraphiliasfantasy of having female genitalia undoubtedly felt more acceptable to the informant than the paraphilic fantasy of being butchered. I will present other examples of this kind of “paraphilic substitution,” in which unacceptable paraphilic fantasies arereplaced by more acceptable ones, later in this chapter and in Chap. 11 .Forced FeminizationA particular genre of masochistic fantasies and behaviors involves forced or coerced feminization; the masochistic aspect of feminization derives from “its humiliating associations” (APA, 2000 , p. 572). Forced feminization fantasies are a staple of trans-gender erotica (Beigel & Feldman, 1963 ) , although there is disagreement about how prevalent and popular they truly are (Buhrich & McConaghy, 1976 ) . In earlier chapters, several informants mentioned such fantasies in passing, with little elaboration.Other informants described their forced feminization fantasies in greater detail: My main fantasies revolved around being forced by a woman into becoming one myself.I started buying the little pink trans novels at the bookstores and became obsessed with their visions of my wife burning all my male clothing, injecting me with giant syringes of hormones, and hauling me off to the beauty parlor against my will. (182) About sex: I usually do it myself, with pictures of women in dresses. I imagine that I am one of the women, stuck in the role; often forced into it by a man. I imagine myself with breasts and with no choice but to live as a female. (035)My sexual fantasies usually involve being made into a woman in some way, usually against my will. Speci fi cally, I experience erotic fantasies of being coerced or duped into being a woman, against my will initially but then gradually being won over until I can’t go back. (212)I fantasized about being forced to dress as a woman as a punishment for various offenses, such as not acting masculine enough. I would also combine the cross-dressing fantasy with being dominated by a woman. Sometimes this woman would make me look like her. When I was attracted to some girls in school, I would fantasize about being forced to wear their clothes and have hair like theirs. Sometimes I would add to this fantasy being bound and forced to watch them have sex with their boyfriends. My current fantasies involve becoming a woman. I imagine myself forced to become a woman in dress, manner, and physique (through hormones and surgery). (056)Another informant reported that she was attracted to the idea of observing a man who was “trapped” in the body of a woman; she imagined this to be a real-life instance of forced feminization.I became obsessed with transsexual women. To observe a young man being transformed into a woman was now my fantasy. I haunted clubs where they would gather. I was particularly attracted to transsexuals who were “women” in every way except one. I dated transsexuals who could pass in public but who had not yet had fi nal surgery. Although I dated post-operative transsexuals, I was only satis fi ed with pre-operative transsexuals. I still date genetic females, but I catch myself longing for signs—a slightly deeper voice or some other evidence that she is a transsexual—that will arouse my ardor. I am particularly attracted to transsexual women who are autogynephilic. The idea of a man “trapped” in the body of atranssexual, experiencing the daily humiliation and degradation of being a woman, forced to wear women’s clothes and lipstick, is extremely attractive to me. (194) I have not been able to fi nd a satisfactory explanation in the literature as to why forced feminization fantasies are so powerful and exciting for so many of us autogynephilic transsexuals. The conventional explanation is that being forced to become feminine absolves us of responsibility and thereby relieves us of guilt. One informant proposed this exact explanation:I believe that the forced feminization scenario is particularly stimulating to a lot of transsexual women because it relieves us of the guilt of wanting to be feminine. Someone else is forcing us, and we have no choice in the matter. No guilt, all fun, and you are experiencing life in the body you desire to be in. (041)Personally, I don’t fi nd such explanations very convincing. Relief from guilt might make fantasies more pleasant, but it would not necessarily make them more exciting; in fact, I suspect the opposite would be true. Some psychoanalytically inclined writers have attempted to explain forced feminization fantasies as reenactments of childhood experiences in which a boy’s masculinity was devalued by powerful female caregivers (e.g., Stoller, 1975 ) or as attempts to deal with unresolved oedipal wishes and con fl icts (Beigel & Feldman, 1963 ) ; interested readers are referred to these accounts for details.One might ask why forced feminization fantasies should succeed at all as masochistic fantasies for autogynephilic transsexuals. Why should we identify with male protagonists who feel shame and humiliation at being turned into girls or women—isn’t becoming a girl or a woman precisely what we want? Wouldn’t we experience pride and gratitude instead of shame and humiliation if someone turned us into women? The whole premise of forced feminization fantasies should mystify us: Why should we identify with male protagonists who need to be forced into becoming girls or women—aren’t these precisely the outcomes we seek voluntarily?Surely no one would need to force us to become women, so it makes no sense that we should identify with protagonists who need to be forced.Reality is, of course, considerably messier. We do, in fact, consider becoming feminized—becoming women—to be shameful and humiliating. We grew upreceiving an unending stream of explicit and implicit messages—from the boys and men we knew and from society at large—about women’s inferiority. We believed these messages and internalized them. Even though we now genuinely desire to be women, we fi nd the idea of becoming women profoundly humiliating. Probably we will always feel that way to some extent. That is plausibly why forced feminization fantasies continue to work as masochistic erotic fantasies for many of us, even years or decades after we have completed sex reassignment: We never entirely get over our shame.Interestingly, forced feminization fantasies are also symbolic representations of our actual life experiences. Because we fi nd the prospect of becoming women so shameful and humiliating, we really do have to be forced into it. We are forced by our unremitting gender dysphoria, by our powerful erotic desires, by our love and admiration for women’s bodies and our wishes to turn our bodies into facsimiles ofCo-occurring Paraphiliasthem, and by our need to honor our strongly held cross-gender identities in order to give meaning and vitality to our lives. If we are prudent, we autogynephilic transsexuals undergo sex reassignment only if we feel we have no other viable alternative: We transition because we feel forced to do so. Forced feminization is, in a very real sense, the story of our lives.Gynemimetophilia and GynandromorphophiliaMoney and Lamacz ( 1984 ) coined the term gynemimetophilia to describe paraphilic sexual attraction to surgically or hormonally feminized men who had not undergone SRS (often called she-males ; Blanchard, 1993b ) . Money ( 1986 , p. 262) later broadened the de fi nition of gynemimetophilia to include paraphilic attraction to feminized men who had undergone SRS (i.e., postoperative MtF transsexuals). A few years later, Blanchard and Collins ( 1993 ) coined the closely related term gynandromorphophilia , which they used to describe paraphilic sexual attraction to feminized men who had not undergone SRS—a group that included transvestites as well as she-males, but did not include postoperative MtF transsexuals. Thus, those of us who study and describe paraphilias are presented with the confusing situation of having two very similar terms with overlapping but not identical applicability. To summarize: Men with a paraphilic interest in transvestites are properly called gynandromorphophiles. Men with a paraphilic interest in postoperative MtF transsexuals are properly called gynemimetophiles (Money, 1986 ) . Men with a paraphilic interest in she-males are properly called by either term.A narrative by an informant who was sexually attracted to MtF transsexuals was presented previously in connection with the discussion of forced feminization.Several other informants also described their experience of particular sexual attraction to transvestites, she-males, or postoperative MtF transsexuals. In some cases, their gynemimetophilia or gynandromorphophilia dated from a time prior to their identifying as transsexual or beginning the sex reassignment process.Early in my transsexual days, I had crushes on more advanced transsexuals. I decided to start dating again, and I fi nd myself dating heterosexual crossdressers. I fi nd myself appreciating the feminine in my lovers. (230)When I was 29 years old, I met a beautiful pre-op transsexual who was also a street prostitute and a glamorous showgirl. I fell in love and my fi rst experience with a transsexual was wonderful, although I was unable to orgasm. She was not fond of my cross-dressing and although she fell in love with me, couldn’t be physically involved because I was a crossdresser, which was looked down upon in the homosexual drag community. (214) I have been involved with cross-dressing behavior since I was 5 or 6 years old and it has been sexually arousing for me. I met a drag queen almost 6 years ago at a gay bar, and within minutes we were heavily petting on a pool table. I had never been this aroused by anyone so quickly. We have been together ever since. As our relationship continued, she was the “female” and I was the “male” of the relationship, literally. I was allowed to dress on Halloween but at no other times. I became increasingly unhappy about my role and inability to be who I wanted to be. I would sit in extreme jealousy when she would get dressed to go out and I began to realize that I wanted to be who she was. She is very attractive and I foundmyself dreaming constantly of changing my appearance to be feminine. She will not accept my transition in any way and I can not bring myself to leave her. For the longest time, I felt confusion as to whether my sexual orientation would change with time and exposure to hormones. When I read about MtF-to-MtF attraction, I realized that my sexual orientation was and still is towards other transsexual women. (042)Some informants emphasized how much they identi fi ed with and envied the MtFtranssexuals to whom they were attracted .I am astounded that doctors perform so many sex changes. There must be hundreds of thousands of transsexuals, and when I see pictures of them, I am aroused as well. I look at photos of lovely young boys transitioning and am jealous of them, or want to be with them, or wish I were one of them. (133)I am obsessed with the desire to be female. My fi rst experience picking up a transsexual was at age 18. I was very excited to hold a large manicured hand and see a hotel full of “girls.”I ended up submitting to anal intercourse, which hurt, but I did not object. My greatest moments of joy would be spending hours with transsexual prostitutes, watching them dress and prepare and joining them. My favorite photos are of groups of transsexuals together at parties, dancing, taking baths, etc., with me as one of them. I can function sexually with women or transsexuals, but I don’t feel much thrill with women. (176) It is important to note that some cases in which autogynephilic transsexuals become sexually involved with other MtF transsexuals do not necessarily represent instances of gynemimetophilia. Some informants who described sexual involvement with other MtF transsexuals did not explicitly describe any special or speci fi c attraction to the MtF transsexual phenotype:I began picking up and having sex with transsexual prostitutes, fi rst acting as “the man,” but as my guard lessened, wanting to simply be around them, observe and learn from them, and also act feminine. (179)I have noticed that there are two types of transsexuals. In fact, I am dating someone of the other type now. My transsexual girlfriend is of the “primary” type. She was able to transition early and has always maintained her interest in men, before and after transition. (074) In my experience, MtF transsexuals often partner with each other, before and after SRS, for reasons that have more to do with mutual acceptance and an absence of other viable alternatives than with speci fi c sexual attraction to one another.Indeed, many of these partnerships appear to be affectionate but largely asexual.PedophiliaOne informant stated that she was aroused by the fantasy of having sex with female children, although she claimed that she had never acted on her fantasies: I have been diagnosed as transsexual by four separate therapists, and I am taking hormones.I live full time as a woman and have for almost fi ve years. I have fantasized about sex with a man a time or two, but mainly I have been aroused by the idea of penetration with female children. I don’t have these fantasies anymore, as I am chemically castrated and have gottenCo-occurring Paraphiliasrelief from them by being on hormones. I have never done any of these things I have fantasized about; I would not be free very long if I did. (231)Co-occurrence of transsexualism and pedophilia has been reported (Abel & Osborn,1992 ) , but it appears to be rare.Autonepiophilia (Paraphilic Infantilism or Adult Baby Syndrome)Autonepiophilia is a paraphilic sexual interest involving sexual arousal to the thought or image of being an infant, often an infant wearing diapers speci fi cally (Money, 1986 ) . It is sometimes referred to as paraphilic infantilism (Money, 1986 )or adult baby syndrome (Kise & Nguyen, 2011 ) . One transsexual informant reported this co-occurring paraphilia:When I was younger, maybe 8 years old, I had always wanted to wear diapers and pee in them. Around this same age and later, I would often put my penis and testes down and cross my legs, so as to hide them and see how I’d look with female genitalia. I remember that I wanted the feeling of it getting wet “down there,” near my butt, like I imagined it was for a girl. In exploring erotic imagery on the Internet, I came across pictures of females peeing in their pants. This provided some validation that others got arousal from it, too. I also found pictures of people in diapers and subsequently found out about infantilists. I had a friend help me buy training pants, basically diapers, in the store. He assumed I wanted the boy ones.I said, “No! I want the girl ones.” In exploring with these, I found that fantasizing about being a girl who didn’t have full control over her bladder was immensely satisfying. I would imagine I was age 5 or so to pre-teen, something in there. I have been aroused by imagery of females in swimsuits, since they show the crotch area in all its smoothness. I have had this arousal for many years. Recently, I had the idea that I wanted to actually be this. I have never found breasts to be arousing. I’m more obsessed with the child female form. (209) The co-occurrence of MtF transsexualism and autonepiophilia or infantilism hasbeen reported previously (Kise & Nguyen, 2011 ) , and I have seen one case of diaper fetishism in an autogynephilic transsexual in my practice.Abasiophilia and Autoabasiophilia (Leg Brace Paraphilia)The term abasiophilia refers to a paraphilic interest in “having a partner who is lamed, crippled, and unable to walk” (Money, 1990 , p. 165). Money called the reciprocal paraphilia—sexual arousal to the thought or image of oneself being lamed, crippled, and unable to walk— autoabasiophilia (p. 166). The use of leg braces offers visible evidence of this kind of disability, and wearing or using leg braces is often the focus of abasiophilic and autoabasiophilic sexual interest. One informant reported experiencing both abasiophilia and autoabasiophilia: I am a 60-year-old retired psychiatrist who is currently in the hormonal and hair removal phase of my gender transition. Since my childhood, I have dressed as a crippled female, with this usually ending in masturbation. I have known my female gender identity since age4, but negative messages about cross-gender behavior led me to repress the expression of it, except as a crippled female. I have also dated several brace-wearing females and was engaged to one. (232)The occurrence of autoabasiophilia in an autogynephilic transsexual with abasiophilia is not unexpected. As I noted in Chap. 2 , autogynephilia is theorized tore fl ect an erotic target location error (Freund & Blanchard, 1993 ) : the tendency to be sexually aroused by the idea of becoming a facsimile of the kind of person to whom one is attracted. Men who are autogynephilic are attracted to women and are aroused by the idea of becoming women. Men who are autogynephilic and are also speci fi cally attracted to women who wear leg braces would predictably be especially sexually aroused by the idea of becoming women who wear leg braces. This kind of speci fi city of autogynephilic arousal is apparently not uncommon; it willbe discussed in greater detail in Chap. 11 .A second informant also reported autoabasiophilia, but did not describe abasiophilic attraction to other persons:I remember in about fi rst grade being fascinated by posters of child polio victims wearing leg braces, particularly those showing little girls. My older sister wore a leg brace due to an injury when I was between the ages of 1 and 4. As an infant, I must have seen my sister getting love, sympathy, and attention because of her disability. Somehow I must have gotten the subconscious message that I must wear leg braces and be female to have that, too.Throughout my teen years, I remember reading all about polio and looking at pictures of children and women in leg braces. I had no idea why I would be fascinated by this and was embarrassed by it. As a teen, my most powerful masturbatory fantasies were of me being attended to as a disabled teenage girl. Occasionally in private I would pretend with clumsy props to be wearing leg braces. When I graduated from college, married, and fi nished grad school, I suppressed all of this, but sexual fantasies of my being female and sometimes female in leg braces continued to interfere with my sexual relations with my wife. My fantasy images kept interfering with what was right in front of my eyes. Eventually, when making love with my wife, the “in leg braces” part became less important and the being female part became overpowering, such that that was the only way I could stay aroused.I had never seriously cross-dressed until about 5 years ago, when I happened upon some leg braces that were about to be thrown out in the physical therapy section of a hospital. By happenstance, they were almost exactly my size. This was too much to ignore. I set about with intense, amazing energy to ready myself for a public experience as a woman wearing leg braces. In a short time, I read everything I could fi nd about successful cross-dressing.Several months later, when I was ready for this foray in public, as I was completing my feminine look in private and without the leg braces on, I was absolutely overwhelmed about how natural and at home I felt as a woman. While the braces were the catalyst that set this going again so powerfully, now they were super fl uous. I did go out a few times with the braces on, but it seemed silly and deceptive. And all the energy was around being female, not being disabled.At fi rst, I thought I must be what writers referred to as a fetishistic transvestite. Gradually, I have come to realize that it is not the dressing, but the being female with a female body, that is such a powerful urge in me. My female identity and potential body seems to be my spiritual soul, my heart. It is certainly sexual, but much more. Somehow it seems my whole life before this has had a certain void at the center. At this point, I am on the verge of going full time and doing all the things necessary to be very passable, including SRS. (233) This narrative offers another example of the phenomenon of “paraphilic substitution,” which was discussed earlier in this chapter. Paraphilic substitution is theConcluding Comments on Other Aspects of Autogynephilic Sexuality term I used to describe the process by which disturbing or unacceptable paraphilic fantasies are sometimes replaced by less distressing, more acceptable ones.Autoabasiophilic fantasies are not necessarily highly disturbing, but they were apparently more embarrassing to this informant—and surely more inconvenient to actualize—than her autogynephilic fantasies. The outcome was that the more embarrassing and inconvenient paraphilia, autoabasiophilia, receded and the more acceptable paraphilia, autogynephilia, assumed greater prominence.I have observed a similar case of paraphilic substitution in my own practice: An autogynephilic transsexual client whose most intense paraphilic interest was autoabasiophilia eventually gave up her desire to live full time as a woman with a highly visible disability and decided instead to be content by simply undergoing sex reassignment. Her autoabasiophilic paraphilia did not exactly recede—the fantasy of being a woman wearing leg braces remained her most reliable source of erotic arousal—but she made a deliberate choice to deemphasize it. She stated that she reached this decision because “the leg brace thing just felt too crazy.”Unspeci fi ed ParaphiliasTwo informants stated that they experienced other co-occurring paraphilias (or fetishes) but did not describe the content or focus of these paraphilias.The thought of being female turns me on, so much so that it’s my primary sexual attraction mechanism. I do have a separate, unrelated fetish, and I can feel a signi fi cant difference between the fetish and my autogynephilia. With the fetish, I can be turned on very strongly, but I don’t actually want it to be made manifest; it’s just a fantasy. But with the desire to be female, there is nothing I want more, even though it usually doesn’t turn me on quite as much as my fetish. (004)My autogynephilic fantasies probably kicked in with puberty. In the early days, I think they were more clothes/forced feminization-based. Later on they were more based on the idea of a change of genitals. Interestingly, autogynephilia is not, and never was, my primary paraphilia.I really can’t trace autogynephilia back too much beyond adolescence. My primary paraphilia is rooted back to my earliest memory, and I can remember distinct interests at about 5 years of age. It began to manifest around age 10. It is now my only source of orgasm. (065) Note that the second informant described her primary paraphilic interest as having been present from about age 5, roughly the same age at which many autogynephilic transsexuals fi rst became aware of their autogynephilic interests.Concluding Comments on Other Aspectsof Autogynephilic SexualityThis diverse collection of narratives concerning other aspects of autogynephilic sexuality illustrates three important themes that are fundamental to understanding autogynephilic transsexualism. First, autogynephilia resembles and operates as aparaphilic sexual orientation in autogynephilic transsexuals: Autogynephilic themes are central to the sexuality of most autogynephilic transsexuals and are often obligatory for achieving orgasm. Moreover, autogynephilia is accompanied by other paraphilic sexual interests in a signi fi cant number of autogynephilic transsexuals, which is consistent with the theory that autogynephilia is itself a paraphilia. Second, gender dysphoria and cross-gender identity in autogynephilic transsexuals are direct outgrowths of this autogynephilic sexual orientation: Autogynephilic transsexuals not uncommonly report that their desire to be a woman temporarily disappears immediately after orgasm, suggesting that this desire is driven by or dependent on some minimal level of sexual desire or tension, at least initially. Moreover, testosterone reduction associated with feminizing hormone therapy sometimes leads to the disappearance of autogynephilic arousal, gender dysphoria, and cross-gender wishes in autogynephilic transsexuals, suggesting that all of these phenomena are erotic and testosterone-driven, at least initially. Finally, although autogynephilic arousal is the de fi ning and animating element of autogynephilic transsexualism, it is not always regarded as pleasant or desirable by those who experience it: On the contrary, some autogynephilic transsexuals describe autogynephilic arousal as distressing, invalidating, or inconvenient.What Is the Meaning and Explanatory Signi fi canceof Autogynephilia?All of the transsexual informants who provided narratives had experienced autogynephilic arousal, but they expressed widely varying opinions concerning its meaning and signi fi cance. Many seemed to accept Blanchard’s formulation: They believed that autogynephilia was a paraphilic sexual interest that had been an important force in their lives, had given rise to their gender dysphoria and cross-gender identi fi cation, and had been an undeniable cause—albeit not necessarily the proximate or the only cause—of their wish to undergo sex reassignment.This point of view, however, was not universal. To attribute real meaning and explanatory signi fi cance to autogynephilia is to disagree with the beliefs and attitudes held by most other MtF transsexuals and more than a few clinicians and researchers. Many autogynephilic transsexuals would understandably prefer to interpret their autogynephilic feelings in a way that would not “directly contradict basic tenets of the worldwide transgender movement” (Nuttbrock, Bockting, Mason,et al., 2011 , p. 249). Several informants accomplished this by taking a compromiseapproach: They acknowledged that they had experienced autogynephilic arousal but rejected Blanchard’s explanation of its meaning and signi fi cance. This served to minimize or deemphasize any disagreement between their life histories and generally accepted ideas about transsexualism.Informants who did not attribute great meaning or explanatory signi fi cance to their autogynephilic feelings proposed various alternatives to Blanchard’s formulation. Some suggested that autogynephilia might be only a symptom or an effect of their transsexualism or gender dysphoria, not a cause of these conditions. These informants often supported their opinions by noting that their cross-gender fantasies had begun well before puberty or had usually preceded overt autogynephilic arousal by many years. Other informants argued that autogynephilia was merely an epiphenomenon—an incidental effect of their female gender identities interacting with their unwanted male bodies or some particular aspect of their male upbring-ings. Still others asserted that autogynephilia was not a paraphilic condition at all but rather a normal manifestation of female sexuality that could be easily observed in natal women. A few informants expressed more than one of these points of view.In a related vein, a few informants proposed that MtF transsexualism had a speci fi c biologic etiology; they usually believed that an abnormal hormonal milieu during prenatal development was wholly or partly responsible. Their unstated implication was that there was no need to consider the meaning or the signi fi cance of autogynephilia, because their transsexualism could be explained in terms of hormonal abnormalities during the prenatal period.Autogynephilia Might Be a Symptom of TranssexualismThe idea that autogynephilia might be merely an effect or symptom of one’s gender dysphoria or transsexualism rather than a cause of these conditions is an appealing one, because it denies the explanatory signi fi cance of autogynephilic arousal without denying the fact of it. Back in the days when I was trying to reconcile my belief in Blanchard’s theory with the transsexual community’s vehement rejection of it,I even proposed this idea myself (Lawrence, 2000 ) , although I now regard it as specious.Some informants similarly suggested, usually without much elaboration, that autogynephilia might simply be a symptom or an effect of their transsexualism or gender dysphoria. Here are some representative comments:I have numerous concerns with Blanchard’s analysis, but I’ll focus on just one: the assumption that autogynephilia is the cause or primary motivation for an individual’s transsexuality. I have never been adequately convinced that this is the case, and it seems just as likely to me that transsexuality causes autogynephilia, or that transsexuality and autogynephilia are the shared result of some common root cause. (121)This erotic impulse created by the desire to be and live as a woman has probably been an important factor in my transition, although I believe, as I need to, that it is simply a manifestation of a deeper underlying condition. (110)I strongly believe that it is misguided to view autogynephilia as the ultimate cause of gender dysphoria or the wish to undergo SRS. I feel it is something I developed or crafted as a way of dealing with my gender dysphoria. (081)Reading about autogynephilia, I did have some strong pangs of truth, but I feel it is possibly one of the symptoms of gender dysphoria. I feel the fantasies are an escape outlet for my closed and shutdown reality and my cultural maleness. (234)There is a certain super fi cial plausibility about the accounts offered in the last two narratives: If one wanted to become a woman but were unable to do so, one might understandably fantasize about becoming a woman. These accounts do not explain, however, why fantasies of becoming a woman would be so powerfully erotic.Desires to Be Female Begin Before Puberty and Precede Autogynephilic Arousal Desires to Be Female Begin Before Puberty and PrecedeAutogynephilic ArousalChildren usually, if not invariably, display erotic and sexual interests and behaviorsbeginning in early childhood—long before puberty (Friedrich et al., 2000 ; Martinson,1976, 1994 ; Yates, 2004 ) . Erotic and sexual behaviors in young children are so ubiquitous and so easily observed that they have been taken for granted in most cultures throughout human history. In recent years, however, there has developed a countervailing cultural belief, especially in the United States, that eroticism and sexuality begin only at puberty.In their interviews with nine MtF transsexuals, Schrock and Reid ( 2006 ) encountered several instances in which informants invoked the idea that sexuality begins only at puberty to justify their belief that their cross-dressing could not be an erotic phenomenon:Interviewees used cultural discourse on sexuality that paints preadolescents as asexual …as a resource to distance themselves from erotic transvestites. In telling their sexual stories, the six who had used women’s garments during masturbation drew on the notion that sexual life begins only after puberty as a resource for identity work. Erin’s account was typical:“I had been dressing for seven years before I had my fi rst orgasm, so my reaching puberty and beginning to masturbate and becoming sexual was just coincidental with my crossdressing.” The implication was that because they crossdressed before puberty, that they were not, underneath it all, just transvestites. (p. 79)In the current study, six informants reported that they had distinct memories of wanting to be female or cross-dressing before they went through puberty, at which time they fi rst became conscious of autogynephilic sexual arousal. They argued, explicitly or implicitly, that this temporal sequence precluded the possibility that autogynephilic arousal was the cause of their gender dysphoria or cross-gender identity.I have had these feelings for as long as I can remember, and that is before puberty and issues of sexual arousal ever crossed my mind. Here is an example: My parents were the co-owners of a hotel when I was younger. During the summers, I would answer the phone and take down reservations. The callers, not expecting a 9- or 10-year-old to be answering calls, would identify me as a female receptionist. Until puberty, I played this role fl awlessly, cherishing every moment. At this age, sexual arousal was the last thing on my mind, but I still loved to play the female, because I already at this age understood I wasn’t meant to be a male. Though sexual arousal may play a certain role in my desire to be female, the actual concept of arousal from dressing up came many years after I fi gured out I wasn’t like the other boys. (235)I had fantasies of acquiring a feminine body, and, yes, they were erotic. There is, however, something that seems inconsistent with this being my motivating factor to have SRS.I wished for SRS for several years prior to any sexual realization of myself. I have distinct memories of having wanted to be a girl beginning at age 4 or 5 years old. The sexual fantasies did not start for a good 6 years after that and were few and far between until about age 28, when I was married. I do not know if autogynephilia was more a reaction to my already strong desire to be the opposite sex (it was a product of my transsexuality) or the cause.I suspect it was a product rather than a cause, simply because it came later in life than the desire to change sex. (236)My earliest memories of dealing with this gender issue go back to age 3 or 4. Isn’t this well before any sexual issues could be a source for these feelings? When I was about 9 or 10, I saw some Life magazine images of women who’d transitioned and I thought this is what I’d like to do. At the age of 11 or 12, I started cross-dressing in some of my mother’s clothing. For the fi rst time I experienced erotic feelings with my desire to be a woman. The point of all of this is to provide the history of my feelings and document that they preceded any sort of sex drive. So if I’m autogynephilic, which it appears that I am, how is it that my fi rst thoughts about wishing I was a girl had nothing to do with sex drive? (130) I have had strong erotic fantasies around the subject of feminization. The fantasies very de fi nitely came later than the desire to be female. As far back as I can remember, I have wanted to be a girl, but didn’t start fantasizing about it in an erotic sense until after puberty.The things I used to fantasize about before puberty were more on the order of getting rid of a particular girl at school and somehow taking over her life. (186)My own feelings of dysphoria began at around 5 or 6 years of age, long before I experienced any sexual arousal or feelings at all. I remember thinking distinctly that I was both in the wrong body and the wrong role. Before puberty, it was almost entirely about the gender role, and the physical aspect was about form alone and was not sexualized at all. Around puberty, though, as my body became overrun with strong male hormones, I found myself constantly aroused at everything. My desire to be female quite suddenly expanded to include a new sexual aspect. So, my transsexualism predated a time when I was aroused by the idea of being female. (125)I don’t think that autogynephilic sexuality is the reason I am transsexual. Rather, I think it is a symptom of my transsexualism. I had my fi rst feelings of wanting to be female around the age of 3-1/2. All through childhood, I prayed that I could become a girl. I started crossdressing around the age of 7. I was told I was a boy and would always be a boy no matter what, so I tried as best I could to get on with life as a male. Nowhere in those early years was autogynephilia present and yet my gender dysphoria was as intense, if not more intense, than it is now. It was only after puberty that autogynephilia began to display itself. (237) In interpreting these narratives, it is useful to consider two questions: How con fi dent can one be that the informants’ implicit or explicit denials of erotic arousal in association with prepubertal cross-dressing or cross-gender fantasies are accurate? And how con fi dent can one be that the informants’ descriptions of their prepubertal desires to be female are accurate and not exaggerated? In both instances, I believe one should be skeptical about the accuracy of these accounts.As several informants reported in Chap. 5 , autogynephilic arousal associated with cross-dressing or cross-gender fantasy during early childhood is not unusual.Moreover, as I noted in Chaps. 1 , 4 , and 5 , gender dysphoric men who display physi-ologic evidence of autogynephilic arousal in a laboratory setting often deny havingexperienced it (Blanchard et al., 1986 ) , and adolescents who are clinically referred for transvestic fetishism often deny autogynephilic arousal as well (Zucker et al.,2012 ) . Moreover, denial of autogynephilic arousal is associated with a sociallydesirable response style (Blanchard, Clemmensen, et al., 1985 ) . All three of these studies involved denial of autogynephilic arousal that had occurred (or putatively had occurred) fairly recently. It would not be surprising, then, if inaccurate denial of autogynephilic arousal that putatively had occurred decades earlier, or simple failure to recall such arousal, might be a common phenomenon. Please note that I am not claiming that the six transsexual informants above who denied prepubertal autogynephilic arousal are lying (cf. Serano, 2010 , p. 181); I am simply claiming that thereDesires to Be Female Begin Before Puberty and Precede Autogynephilic Arousal is good reason to believe that they might not be reporting accurately—probably unintentionally—and, therefore, good reason to be skeptical of their denials.How con fi dent can one be that the informants’ descriptions of their prepubertal desires to be female are accurate and not exaggerated? I have addressed the issue ofchildhood cross-gender wishes preceding autogynephilia in Chap. 5 , and I will doso again later in this chapter. Occasional cross-gender wishes during early childhood are not unusual, even in boys without known gender issues (Friedrich et al.,1991 , 1998 , 2000 ; Sandfort & Cohen-Kettenis, 2000 ) . Boys who will subsequently become autogynephilic transsexuals probably experience recurrent and perhaps frequent cross-gender wishes during early childhood and may also experience some episodes of gender dysphoria. But these symptoms do not necessarily indicate the existence of severe, ongoing gender dysphoria or strong, persistent cross-gender identi fi cation in early childhood. It is not uncommon for individuals who experience transsexualism in adulthood to inaccurately report signi fi cant cross-genderwishes occurring much earlier in life (Bancroft, 1972 ; Fisk, 1974 ; Lukianowicz,1959 ) . Consequently, I believe that one ought to be skeptical of the reports by transsexual informants in the current study who suggested or implied that they had experienced intense, persistent cross-gender wishes during early childhood.I am not aware of any reliable third-person accounts—as opposed to retrospective fi rst-person accounts—or clinical case reports documenting severe gender dysphoria or strong, persistent cross-gender identi fi cation during early childhood in adult autogynephilic or nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals. A report by Wallien and Cohen-Kettenis ( 2008 ) , however, included one male patient who had been diagnosed with GID in childhood, exhibited persistent GID in adolescence, and reported heterosexual attraction in adolescence. A subsequent report by de Vries et al.( 2011 ) included three male patients with childhood and adolescent GID, two of whom reported bisexual orientation and one of whom reported heterosexual orientation in adolescence (perhaps the same patient reported by Wallien & Cohen-Kettenis, 2008 ) . It seems possible, then, that cases of males who met the diagnostic criteria for GID in early childhood and adolescence and later went on to developed nonhomosexual or autogynephilic transsexualism might exist; but such cases are probably very rare. In contrast, there are many reported cases of male patients diagnosed with GID in childhood who experienced persistent GID in adolescence or adulthood and developed a homosexual orientation (e.g., de Vries et al., 2011 ; Steensma, Biemond, de Boer, & Cohen-Kettenis, 2011 ; Wallien & Cohen-Kettenis,2008 ) . Until reliable third-person documentation exists, ideally in the form of actual case reports, I consider retrospective fi rst-person accounts by autogynephilic transsexuals of severe gender dysphoria or strong, persistent cross-gender identi fi cation during early childhood to be suspect and possibly exaggerated—not out of willful deception, but out of the understandable need to fi nd or create a coherent life story.As I discussed in Chap. 5 and will discuss later in this chapter, an alternative possibility—and a more likely one, I believe—is that cross-gender wishes during early childhood in boys who grow up to be autogynephilic transsexuals are simply early indications of their autogynephilic sexual orientation.Cross-Gender Fantasies Might Become SexualizedAfter PubertySome informants who reported that they had fi rst experienced cross-gender fantasies or wishes in early childhood believed that their fantasies had originally been nonsexual but had become “secondarily” sexualized around the time of puberty, through the operation of some biological mechanism or psychosocial in fl uence. Informants differed in the speci fi c mechanisms to which they attributed the sexualization of their purportedly originally nonsexual feelings.One informant believed that shame and fear of discovery had resulted in her cross-gender feelings and urges becoming sexualized:Before the age of 5, I felt as if I were female and began correcting anyone who claimed otherwise. However, the idea of me being female wasn’t a sexual catalyst yet, because I wasn’t the least bit afraid or ashamed of being a girl. In fact, I thought I was a girl. But then I began to feel ashamed, afraid to let anyone know my true feelings. Soon I became extremely sexually excited at the thought of all things female—not females in particular, but female articles of clothing on my body, etc. I became sexually excited by polishing my toenails, which hitherto had not happened. Surely you get the picture. Basically, fear was my sexuality back then. I didn’t fear being a girl until I was taught to fear this, or at least taught to fear getting caught being a girl. (238)Another speculated that her cross-dressing might have become sexualized because it was taboo:I’m a transsexual who has recently accepted what I am. I have been aroused by crossdressing. I am attracted to women. What I’ve questioned is: Was and am I sexually aroused for the reasons you discussed, or because I knew that it was “taboo”? Taboo subjects can be highly erotic. (196)Yet another believed that her cross-gender behavior had become sexualized because it was forbidden:I believe that, at least in my case, autogynephilia was a result of gender dysphoria, not a cause of it. I have realized that I had been denying my identity all along. My speculation is that the erotic response was the result of the identity con fl ict. It was my mind’s attempt to deal with the contradictions. When I was trying to prove what I was, through the roles I lived, the forbidden feminine side was exciting and erotic. Now my mind is no longer in a state of confusion, and the erotic nature of doing something “forbidden” has given way to the new battlefront. I feel I have crossed over from a “marginal” or controversial transsexual classi fi cation to a more recognized de fi nition. My anatomic autogynephilia is a result of the combination of a classic “woman in a man’s body” de fi nition of transsexuality, combined with years of self-delusion attempting to deny it. (204)These explanations are problematic in part because they lack speci fi city. A wide range of behaviors in which children and adults engage or about which they fantasize—many antisocial behaviors, for example—are forbidden, taboo, prohibited, or shameful. These behaviors, however, presumably did not automatically become intensely sexualized for the informants in the way that their cross-gender behaviors did. The explanations these informants provided cannot account for the fact thatCross-Gender Fantasies Might Become Sexualized After Puberty cross-dressing or cross-gender fantasies in particular became sexualized, whereas other forbidden, taboo, prohibited, or shameful behaviors or fantasies presumably did not.In contrast to the previous informants, who theorized that their cross-gender fantasies had become sexualized because they were shameful or prohibited, another informant proposed that her cross-gender fantasies had become sexualized because they enhanced her self-esteem:Starting with the premise of being a woman in a man’s body, sexual desire is not as simple as becoming aroused while cross-dressed, fantasizing, or role-playing. Living within a body that feels alien, and sometimes even revolting, does not necessarily promote feelings of self-esteem, attractiveness, or sexual desire. An escape from perceived unattractiveness, however, may promote feelings of sexual desire. I propose that anyone, regardless of their motivation or gender, who feels more attractive and/or desirable will also experience increased sexual arousal. This is where, I believe, the line between fetishism and transsexuality has become blurred. For some people, cross-dressing is certainly the source of their sexual desire and grati fi cation. It is nothing more. For myself, cross-dressing was a way of creating a positive self-image, which, in turn, often promoted feelings of attractiveness and sexual desire. Today, after transition and surgery, I still feel sexual energy from dressing up and looking my best for a night on the town. I suppose this could be confused for autogynephilia, when it is actually an issue of self-esteem. (239)Again, this explanation lacks specificity. Many things large and small canenhance a person’s self-esteem: a good haircut, a high grade on an examination, a compliment from a friend. This informant did not explain why cross-dressing in particular , and not other self-esteem-enhancing experiences, became sexualized for her.Another informant opined that the male sex drive could potentially sexualize nearly anything, including cross-gender fantasies:I think that the male sex drive has the potential to be stimulated by almost anything—from the scent of a woman, through pornographic images, to the feel of latex. Almost anything one can think of has potentially erotic content and can generate arousal. It seems not at all surprising that a transsexual with a male sex drive should be aroused by the thought of having a female body and by seeing the results of, and experiencing, the feminization process.In fact, it would be surprising if this wasn’t so. (227)This explanation similarly lacks speci fi city: There is no attempt to explain why cross-gender fantasies in particular should become eroticized by the male sex drive, whereas many other fantasies, objects, and experiences presumably would not.One informant provided an elaborate explanation of how her cross-gender fantasies had become sexualized during puberty through a process of conditioning that included exposure to her father’s pornographic magazines:My own feelings of dysphoria began at around 5 or 6 years of age, long before I experienced any sexual arousal or feelings at all. Around puberty, though, as my body became overrun with strong male hormones, I found myself constantly aroused at everything. My desire to be female quite suddenly expanded to include a new sexual aspect. Soon after puberty began, I found a stack of Penthouse magazines in my father’s garage cabinets. In the pictures, the women appeared to be in the throes of orgasm. It seemed from the photos that the mere physical fact of having a vagina and breasts was enough to send the ownerinto the throes of ecstasy. I began to sexualize the idea of being a woman, meaning that I began to correlate my desire to be a woman with having an erection. Since every masturbatory session I had was naturally associated with a fantasy that I was masturbating as a female, it was only natural that an erectile reaction to the thought of being female would soon occur. Due to the nature of the material I was exposed to, I honestly believed stroking a breast, or just standing with your legs slightly apart and looking down at your closed vulva, was sexually exciting for a woman. Simply put, the women in the pictures seemed to be turned on by their own bodies, and that affected my idea of what it would be like to be female. I feel strongly that my own autogynephilia was nothing more than a side-effect of the deeper problem of gender dysphoria, set in the context of raging male hormones, the“research materials” I had available at the time (porn), and the response of my penis due to episodes of masturbation when I (naturally) imagined I was a female doing the same thing. (125)This informant’s account is somewhat confusing, but it is helpful to highlight her recollection that “every masturbatory session I had was naturally associated with a fantasy that I was … a female.” Thus, her explanation of her autogynephilic feelings appears to be circular: It starts and ends with the fact that her experiences of sexual arousal and orgasm were invariably associated with the fantasy of being female.This, of course, is the de fi ning feature of autogynephilia.Another informant proposed that her desire to be female was attributable to prenatal hormonal abnormalities and that she had developed transvestic fetishism because masturbation during cross-dressing allowed her to express her repressed cross-gender feelings through an “acceptable male activity”:I believe that I became transsexual due to some birth defect (hormonal in fl ux during weeks 12 to 16). As I began to live my life and become more self-aware, I began to notice something was wrong. How did it express itself? In the only way that it could have: I had been trained as a male, so I expressed my repressed feelings in the only acceptable way, a transvestic fetish. I concocted this really tough, impenetrable exterior and locked all the confusing feelings deep within myself, only to be let out during ritualistic masturbation practices, which are again an acceptable male activity. (074)One might wonder whether most men or women would agree that masturbating while wearing women’s clothing is an “acceptable male activity”—or that wearing women’s clothing and masturbating is more acceptable than wearing women’s clothing and not masturbating.Other informants also theorized that their originally nonsexual, identity-related cross-gender fantasies had become secondarily sexualized during or after puberty but were more vague about the mechanism involved. They characterized the sexualization of their cross-gender fantasies as subconscious, a coping strategy, or a response to having concealed their fantasies:Why does the thought of wearing women’s clothing and being a woman turn me on? My theory is that all transgenders, whether they are transvestites or transsexuals, are born with varying degrees of female gender identity. Because we are raised as boys, this basic need we have—the need to be the sex that we subconsciously view ourselves as being—is not satis fi ed. As time goes on, and this basic need is repeatedly not satis fi ed, day after day and year after year, we subconsciously eroticize this basic, fundamental need that has been denied us. In other words, we become autogynephilic. This would explain whyComment: Signs of Eventual Sexual Orientation Are Often Evident in Childhood autogynephilia always gets more intense as we age: because our basic, fundamental need has not been satis fi ed for that much longer. (096)I’ve read a few of the stories on autogynephilia and can relate to many of the experiences described. However, I believe that was because I was obsessed with wearing girls’ clothes.At the time, the only thing I understood was that I wanted to wear girls’ clothing all the time. So, as I went through puberty, I sexualized what I was obsessed with, wearing girls’clothes. As a youngster, I didn’t have the information or vocabulary to say I was a transsexual. Instead, I engaged in the closest action that would represent being a transsexual, and that was wearing girls’ clothes. What I’m trying to say is that, to cope with being a transsexual, I sexualized the wearing of the clothing. (240)At about age 4 or 5, I started to want to be a female. I have a twin sister and at that time, I dressed in her clothes to be a girl. As I started to develop sexually, I admit that I was getting aroused by wearing women’s clothing. When I was about 19, I started to fantasize about having a female body to attain an orgasm. I felt very guilty about my female feelings as I was growing up and locked them inside. So, what I am saying is that I didn’t start out with autogynephilic or any other sexual feelings. I just felt like I should have been born a girl.Because I locked in my feelings, they then later on in life developed into a sexual fantasy as a means of experiencing my female feelings. (241)These explanations are so elaborate and convoluted that one might wonder whether it wouldn’t be easier to simply say, “I’ve always been turned on by the thought of being a girl, but I have no idea why,” and leave it at that. But some informants clearly believed it was important to attempt to explain their autogynephilic feelings as secondary, accidental, meaningless, or irrelevant phenomena. I believe that these explanations represent the informants’ attempts to make their autogynephilic desires seem more conventional or acceptable and thereby make their histories seem to conform more closely to generally accepted ideas about MtF transsexualism.Comment: Signs of Eventual Sexual OrientationAre Often Evident in ChildhoodAs noted earlier, several informants argued that their desire to be women could not possibly be a sexual phenomenon because they fi rst experienced that desire during early childhood, well before puberty. Their argument is super fi cially plausible, but it ignores the crucial fact that children usually display erotic and sexual interests and behaviors beginning in early childhood, long before puberty.More speci fi cally, many children display genital and nongenital manifestations of their eventual sexual orientations well before puberty. This appears to be true for both normophilic and paraphilic sexual orientations, including autogynephilia. In some cases, the prepubertal signs of these eventual sexual orientations involve genital arousal or masturbation in connection with sexual play with other children oradults (Martinson, 1976, 1994 ) ; usually this play involves children or adults of the opposite sex, given that most children grow up to be heterosexual. In other cases, the prepubertal signs of eventual sexual orientation involve feelings and behaviorsthat are not explicitly genital but are associated with sexual attraction or love.Because most adults are unable to remember childhood events that occurred before the ages of 4 or 5 years (Multhaup, Johnson, & Tetirick, 2005 ) , recalled experiences of childhood genital arousal, sexual attraction, or love that are indicative of eventual sexual orientation usually date from these or older ages.Martinson ( 1976 ) described several cases of children between the ages of 6 and 8 who recalled genital arousal in association with sex play with other children or with romantic feelings directed toward other children or adults. He concluded that the capacity to relate to another person in an erotically intimate way and to experience sexual feelings and satisfactions (either homosexually or heterosexually) is clearly present before puberty. And we are being conservative, for most of the capacity and many of the experiences are present by fi ve years of age … and this in a society that is repressive of infant and child sexual behavior. (p. 255)Children who grow up to be heterosexual often display affectionate or romantic behaviors toward speci fi c opposite-sex peers between the ages of 4 and 8 years. In a classic article, Bell ( 1902 ) summarized 800 personal observations and accounts by 360 other observers (most of whom were teachers) involving 1,700 additional cases of “love between children” of the opposite sex. He concluded that: The emotion of sex-love may appear in the life of the child as early as the middle of the third year.… The presence of the emotion in children between three and eight years of age is shown by such action as the following: hugging, kissing, lifting each other, scuf fl ing, sitting close to each other; confessions to each other and to others, talking about each other when apart; seeking each other and excluding others, grief at being separated; giving of gifts, extending courtesies to each other that are withheld from others, making sacri fi ces such as giving up desired things or foregoing pleasures; jealousies, etc. The unprejudiced mind in observing these manifestations in hundreds of couples of children cannot escape referring them to sex origin. (p. 330)Decades later, Hat fi eld et al. ( 1988 ) used the Juvenile Love Scale (JLS)—a modi fi ed version of the Passionate Love Scale used with adults—to assess feelings of affection, preoccupation, desire for physical contact, desire for future marriage, etc. directed toward a speci fi c boyfriend or girlfriend in children between the ages of 4 and 18 years. They observed that “even the youngest children reported having experienced passionate love. In fact, young children and adolescents received surprisingly similar JLS scores” (p. 35). Hat fi eld et al. added that “there is no evidence to support the contention that passionate love is fueled by the hormonal changes of puberty …. It is the youngest children and the oldest children who secure the highest scores” (p. 45).Many boys who grow up to be homosexual similarly report that they fi rst experienced sexual or romantic feelings directed toward same-sex peers between the ages of 4 and 8 years. Savin-Williams and Diamond ( 2000 ) surveyed 86 young same-sex attracted men and found that their recalled mean age of fi rst same-sex attraction was 7.7 years. Isay ( 2009 ) presented several case reports describing the early onset of feelings of homosexual attraction in gay male patients and concluded that “it has become clear to me from working with these and other gay men thathomoerotic fantasies are often present from 5 or 6 years” (p. 29). Spada ( 1979 )Early Cross-Gender Wishes, Guarded Conclusionspresented excerpts from narratives by eight gay men who reported that their fi rstattraction to males occurred between the ages of 4 and 7 years. Kulick ( 1998 ) reported a similar phenomenon in Brazilian travesti (male sex workers who wear women’s clothes but identify as homosexual men), in whom “childhood [is] recalled as a period of erotic play with other boys and attraction to other males” (p. 46).Kulick described three travesti who stated that their sexual attraction to males had begun at age 7 or earlier.Many adult males who have paraphilic sexual orientations also report that their paraphilic interests became manifest in early childhood. Gosselin ( 1979 ) found that, in a group of 100 rubber fetishists—men with an intense erotic interest in rubber items—42% reported that their interest in rubber items had begun at age 8 or earlier; the modal age of onset of their interest in rubber was 4 years. Men with transvestic fetishism—all of whom are putatively autogynephilic but many of whom are not gender dysphoric and some of whom do not have cross-gender identities of even mild intensity—often report an early onset of interest in cross-dressing. Doorn et al.( 1994 ) found that, among 36 nontranssexual cross-dressing men, 8 (22%) reported that their cross-dressing began before age 7, and another 4 (11%) reported that it began between ages 7 and 10.Thus, the earliest manifestations of sexual orientation often occur well before puberty, sometimes as genital arousal and sometimes as feelings of sexual attraction or love. In males, this has been observed for persons of heterosexual, homosexual, fetishistic, and transvestic-autogynephilic sexual orientations.Early Cross-Gender Wishes, Guarded ConclusionsSome informants reported that their cross-gender wishes or fantasies had preceded overt autogynephilic arousal but were more guarded in their interpretations of this temporal sequence. One seemed unwilling to conclude that her early cross-gender feelings were nonsexual, given her awareness that children have sexual feelings before puberty:Does the sexual pleasure we get when we imagine ourselves becoming women lead to the urge to be a woman, or is the urge to be a woman there already, with the sexual pleasure simply an expression and result of it? I thought I should have been born a girl and wondered how to be one long before I experienced sexual pleasure and reinforcement of my fantasies.Of course, there is the question of prepubescent sexuality and sexual pleasure. (242) Another felt that autogynephilia was more than just an erotic phenomenon and also encompassed feelings of love and envy. Based on this broader de fi nition, she concluded that her early childhood desires to be a girl were indeed autogynephilic: I have interpreted autogynephilia to mean “loving” the woman inside oneself, as opposed to simply having a sexual attraction to her. If looked at that way, it seems to encompass feeling envious toward girls and wanting to be a girl long before knowing anything consciously about sex. That certainly was true for me. (243)A similar view was expressed by a third informant: she felt that the early childhood manifestations of her cross-gender identity were indeed sexual, even if they were not yet associated with any physical evidence of sexual arousal: I have no doubt, as I look back on my past, that when I was fi ve and wearing perfume, or making pretty necklaces out of colored beads, or arranging fl owers, or when I was 7 and volunteering to play Mother Goose in the school play, that sexual motivation was a part of what I was experiencing. But I didn’t understand that until I was 18. I didn’t even notice the physical manifestations of sexual excitement accompanying those thoughts until I was 10, and even then, I didn’t have a clue what it meant. (123)Yet another individual distinguished between her early autogynephilic fantasies of being a girl (and her associated feelings of gender dysphoria) and her subsequent identi fi cation as a woman. She reported that her autogynephilic fantasies came fi rst and therefore were not an effect of any preexisting cross-gender identity: My autogynephilic fantasies long pre-dated any notion of actually identifying as being a woman. On the surface, this seems to indicate to me that autogynephilia is a cause rather than an effect. Many respondents experienced their fi rst episodes of dysphoria at the onset of puberty. This was true with me as well. At the very moment young males are fi rst becoming aroused by the opposite sex, there apparently is a group of us that are becoming aroused at being the opposite sex. (018)This informant’s distinction between autogynephilic fantasies on the one hand and cross-gender identity on the other is signi fi cant. Autogynephilic persons often report the onset of cross-dressing, cross-gender fantasies, and episodic gender dysphoria inchildhood or adolescence. But, as discussed in Chap. 5 and earlier in this chapter, autogynephiles do not typically develop strong, persistent cross-gender identities until adulthood—usually only after decades of cross-dressing (Docter, 1988 ) . In short, the existence of cross-gender fantasies does not necessarily imply the existence of strong, persistent cross-gender identity in autogynephilic transsexualism.An Alternative View: Autogynephilia PrecedesCross-Gender IdentitySome informants accepted an explanation similar to the one proposed by Blanchard: they believed that their autogynephilic erotic feelings had preceded and had given rise to their cross-gender identities. One stated:By the age of eight, I cross-dressed “regularly”—meaning every chance I could fi nd.I would fi nd reasons to stay at home when my mom went visiting friends. By about age twelve, the early-on “excitement” began to be associated with the beginnings of sexual arousal the clothing seemed to cause. By the age of fi fteen, the sexual arousal was not a suf fi cient reason to dress in clothing designed for girls. Instead, I dearly wanted to be a girl.The thoughts or fantasies I had, and continue to have, centered on the desire to experience life as a female. This desire became much, if not most, of my fantasy life, whether sexual in nature, or in night and day dreams. I would say that these powerful sexually oriented night/day dreams largely shaped who I thought I was internally. (106)Correct Embodiment Feels Important; Eroticism Feels Incidental Another informant offered a similar explanation: She proposed that, after years of experiencing autogynephilia, autogynephiles might end up believing they are female.I would like to share my thoughts on the mechanism that causes my condition. The underlying cause is de fi nitely sexual. I believe that, pre-puberty, gender issues result in an unusual sexuality, autogynephilia. Autogynephilia then becomes a powerful driving force; if catered to, the sexual desires then switch to the personality level and the desire to become female becomes pathological. I think you could say that autogynephilia can eventually lead to a sexuality that mimics a heterosexual female. It transfers to the personality level, so you may end up believing you are female. (244)These informants both touched on an important point that is too often ignored: We discover who we are and de fi ne our identities by observing our erotic desires. In both paraphilic and nonparaphilic sexual orientations, “erotic intentions shape identity” (Levine, Risen, & Althof, 1990 , p. 95; see also Person, 1980 ) .Correct Embodiment Feels Important; Eroticism FeelsIncidentalA few informants argued that their autogynephilic feelings were incidental or unimportant phenomena. They felt that their experience of wrong embodiment and their resulting desire to imagine themselves in bodies that were congruent with their identities were the genuinely important things, whereas autogynephilia per se was unimportant by comparison.Although I have been married for 25 years, I always fantasize that I am the woman and I need that to climax. I should have found a way earlier, but I am still a transsexual and I still want a vagina. It is not the sex, it is the thought of being just exactly what I always wanted to be. And of course with a vagina I could wear any dresses I wanted, even hot pants! I would love breasts, too. I do know that it is not a sexual thing, though, it is all about being in the right body. (120)I am certainly aroused sexually by imagining that I am, even for a second, a female in body as well as mind. As the pleasure of orgasm approaches, I imagine myself as a woman being penetrated by a man and in that brief instant, due to the extraordinary power of the human imagination, I really am female in body and soul. That is the core of autogynephilia: pleasure heightened to the level of sexual orgasm, coupled with and associated with becoming for just a second who you really are. Is it an aberration? Some would say yes, but I think rather that it is the expression of an extreme desire to exchange this male body for my real body. (245)These two informants disagreed on several things, notably whether their autogynephilic fantasies were sexual phenomena, but they both agreed that their sense of wrong embodiment and their desire to have bodies that felt right were at the crux of their problem. Embodiment was important; autogynephilic arousal evidently was not. Of course, it is hard to argue with the statement, “That’s simply not important.”It is interesting, however, that these informants seemed to attach so little signi fi canceto the fact that autogynephilic fantasies were either necessary to achieve orgasm or were consistently associated with arousal and orgasm.Autogynephilic Arousal Is Infrequent, Loss of LibidoIs AcceptableOne informant believed that her desire to be a woman was unrelated to sexual arousal, because her cross-dressing led to sexual arousal only infrequently.While she conceded that her gender dysphoria might have begun as a paraphilia, her willingness to lose her sexual libido—presumably as a consequence of hormone therapy or SRS—led her to conclude that her current feelings were not paraphilic: I feel a strong desire to have a woman’s body to match my inner self, which I feel is deeply feminine. I do not feel that my desire is directly related to sexual arousal, as 99% of the time that I am feeling the need to dress in women’s clothes or wear makeup, etc., I’m not sexually aroused. My gender dysphoria has evolved slowly over the course of my life, and I feel that it may indeed have begun as a sexual paraphilia. Even today, I can still become quite sexually aroused when cross-dressing or wearing a tampon, but the majority of my waking hours are spent in a non-aroused state, wishing I was a genetic female. I have decided that I would rather lose all my sexual libido than continue to live in a male body. Since this is the case, I fi nd it hard to consider my current condition a paraphilia. (246) Blanchard ( 1991 ) addressed the observation that overt sexual arousal does not always accompany cross-dressing and cross-gender fantasy in autogynephilic transsexualism:The relationship between the cross-gender stimulus and sexual excitement is probabilistic rather than inevitable. An autogynephile does not necessarily become sexually aroused every time he pictures himself as a female or engages in feminine behavior, any more than a heterosexual man automatically gets an erection whenever he sees an attractive woman.Thus, the concept of autogynephilia—like that of heterosexuality, homosexuality, or pedophilia—refers to a potential for sexual excitation. (p. 238) Does an individual’s willingness to sacri fi ce her sexual drive in order to feminize her body imply that her gender dysphoria is not, or is no longer, a paraphilic phenomenon? Although many paraphilic men would undoubtedly prefer not to lose their capacity for sexual arousal, the de fi nition of the term paraphilia does not include any requirement that paraphilic arousal be valued or desired or that individuals would necessarily resist its diminution (e.g., APA, 2000 , p. 535). Money( )described the relentless compulsivity that often characterizes paraphilic arousal and emphasized the “personal and subjective discontent with having one’s life dictated by the commands of a paraphilic lovemap” (p. 142). He observed that men with paraphilias sometimes appreciate the reduction of libido that antiandro-genic medications such as medroxyprogesterone can offer. Consequently, persons who wish to diminish or eliminate their feelings of sexual arousal to unusual sexual stimuli cannot ipso facto be assumed not to be experiencing paraphilic arousal.Autogynephilia Might Occur in Natal WomenAutogynephilia Might Occur in Natal WomenSeveral informants theorized that autogynephilic arousal was a common experience among natal women and therefore that their own autogynephilic arousal was simply a manifestation of their intrinsic femininity, rather than evidence of a paraphilia.I’m really searching for a way by which I can justify my autogynephilic tendencies as being characteristically female and thereby indicative of a bona fi de link to universal femininity.Is a genetic woman’s sexual arousal more dependent on physical self-image than a man’s?If they were honest with themselves, how autogynephilic are genetic, heterosexual, so-called“normal” women? Are genetic women aroused by the thought or image of themselves as female? I’m not suggesting that they are attracted to themselves, but rather that their female self-image may contribute to their ability to be aroused or play an important role in their sexual arousal. If this were the case, it would be quite understandable that they would not publicly acknowledge this, and they might not even admit it to themselves. And this is no different than with transsexual women. (047)Most of the time when I go all out to look as good as possible, I get aroused. I believe the sexual grati fi cation, in my case as with many genetic females, is associated with just trying to look as beautiful as possible. (235)I would say that the symptoms you describe are equally common among genetic women.Having fantasies about oneself, in a scenario involving a foggy partner, the presence of whom only serves to con fi rm one’s female identity, may seem perverted for a person who still largely sees herself as a man. But it is perfectly normal for a genetic woman. Her psychologist may not use the term “autogynephilia”, but may instead speak about “narcissism”, which is a less clinical term, thus implying that the fantasies are completely normal. (084) For myself, fantasies about sex as a woman are important. So, strictly speaking, I am autogynephilic; but my nontranssexual women friends feel the same and were actually amazed that I had to ask them if they had such feelings, as they consider them completely normal.For me, fantasies like this are just a normal thing for me as a woman. (247) I wonder if a correlation could be made between the erotic feelings of having a female body in pre- and post-SRS transsexual women and the erotic feelings of having a female body in natal women. That could go a long way toward legitimizing the erotic component of having a female body and enjoying it. (020)There is a sexual motivation for my pursuit of SRS. I like being attractive. I like the comments, I like the attention. At the same time, there are women who will put on makeup and dress nicely, even if they will not see another human that day. I’m one of them as well.So, if it’s a normal woman trait, why try to rip apart when we talk about transsexual women?If a woman looks nice for herself that’s normal; if a transwoman admits to looking nice for herself, she’s autogynephilic. (090)Having a male body and living a male life are not compatible with having a sex life for me; I can only experience sexual interest or pleasure as a female. How different is that from a lot of natal women? This leads me to wonder if I’m just experiencing a normal female reaction such as a natal woman would feel. (062)One informant disagreed with these assessments, however:I can gain sexual grati fi cation through thinking of myself as a woman, both dressed and looking beautiful and naked with a vagina. I think the thought of being a woman is not in itself arousing to a genetic woman. (248)The informants who proposed that natal women also experience autogynephilia are not alone in so theorizing. Veale et al. ( 2008 ) reported the responses of 127 natal women to a modi fi ed version of Blanchard’s Core Autogynephilia Scale (CAS;Blanchard, 1989b ) ; they found that many natal women endorsed several items from their modi fi ed scale. In another study, Moser ( 2009 ) surveyed 29 natal women using a scale containing modi fi ed items from Blanchard’s CAS and other scales createdby Blanchard (for an analysis, see Lawrence, 2010d ) ; he also found that many natal women endorsed one or more items on his modi fi ed scale, although he conceded that “it is possible that autogynephilia among MTFs and natal women are different phenomena and the present inventories lack the sophistication to distinguish these differences” (p. 544).Unfortunately, both the Veale et al. ( 2008 ) and Moser ( 2009 ) studies had serious, arguably fatal, methodological limitations. The modi fi ed scales they utilized did not adequately differentiate between being aroused by wearing sexually provocative clothing or by imagining that potential romantic partners might fi nd one attractive (which some natal women apparently do experience) and being sexually aroused simply by the idea that one is a woman or has a woman’s body (which natal women arguably rarely or never experience). In my opinion, it remains to be demonstrated that natal women are genuinely sexually aroused simply by the fact that they are women. Moreover, with the exception of sexual masochism, paraphilic arousal of any kind is extremely rare in natal women (APA, 2000 , p. 568).Transsexualism Might Re fl ect a Feminized Brain in a Male BodyA few informants proposed that their transsexualism or gender dysphoria might wholly or partly re fl ect a mismatch between their male bodies and their putatively feminized brains. They usually believed that their brains had become (or had remained) feminized as a result of some hormonal abnormality—perhaps inadequate exposure to testosterone—in utero:I’ve felt for some time that the cause of transsexual needs in males was a mix of nature and nurture. I’m sure that the “feminized brain” theory is right and that stress in utero denies a budding male fetus of its due testosterone during brain formation. Studies in rats have indicated as much, with testosterone-deprived male rats taking up the female mating position when with males. Anecdotally, I feel this myself, as I naturally wrap my legs around a male partner’s buttocks during lovemaking. (115)I am convinced that everything about gender dysphoria happens before birth, when the last surge of testosterone leaves us “half-way,” with a male body but a female brain. In that female brain is the self-image of a woman, which we will try to bring out in many ways throughout our whole life: cross-dressing, sex reassignment, etc. I think that autogynephilia re fl ects the women we have been inside, since we were in our mothers’ wombs. That means that we have been females always. (249)These proposed explanations bear some resemblance to past or current biological theories of transsexualism that have been proposed in the scienti fi c literature.Transsexualism Might Reflect a Feminized Brain in a Male Body Regarding the theory of a “feminized brain in a male body,” Swaab(2007 )suggested thatas sexual differentiation of the genitals takes place in the fi rst 2 months of pregnancy, and sexual differentiation of the brain starts during the second half of pregnancy, these two processes may be influenced independently of each other, resulting in transsexuality(p. 431).Unfortunately, the intriguing data that underlie Swaab’s proposal and the limitations and possible interpretations of these data are too complicated to discuss in detail here. Interested readers are invited to consult a recent summary and critique (Lawrence & Zucker, 2012 , pp. 616–617) as an introduction to the topic and a source of references for further exploration. Fortunately, it is not necessary to understand all the nuances of the “feminized brain in a male body” theory to appreciate why some informants might want to invoke this theory in a discussion of the meaning of autogynephilia. The theory provides a plausible biological explanation of transsexualism that neither involves nor requires autogynephilia as a causal or motivational factor. Invoking this theory allows an autogynephilic transsexual to say, in effect: “I don’t know what my autogynephilia means or whether it means anything at all; I only know that biological factors account for my transsexualism and no further explanations are necessary.”It is worth noting that some informants were more skeptical about the “feminized brain in a male body” theory. One implied that she had previously believed in this theory but was no longer able to do so, after realizing that the concept of autogynephilia applied to her:I can say with certainty that the theory of autogynephilia applies in a way to me. This realization has added to my depression. It would be so much easier to believe that I was a hap-less victim of a brain defect (i.e., having a woman’s brain). (218)Another had tried to convince herself that she displayed genuine feminine tendencies but had been forced to confront the realization that she was in most ways typically masculine:Over the years, I had started to believe that I had feminine tendencies. I had begun to form a “female identity” or a “girl within,” as autogynephiles are said to do as an attempt to rationalize their feelings. But since I discovered the concept of autogynephilia, thoughts of being an actual girl have vanished. I now realize that I am a “man trapped inside a man’s body.” My closest friends have always been male, my role models have always been male, and I am not particularly feminine. (014)This last informant recognized one of the most signi fi cant problems with the“feminized brain in a male body” theory as it applies to autogynephilic transsexuals: If our brains are indeed feminized, that feminization somehow doesn’t seem to be very strongly re fl ected in our attitudes, interests, or sexual orientations. In fact, virtually the only thing feminine about autogynephilic transsexuals is our desire to be feminine. Of course, there are some MtF transsexuals who are genuinely quite feminine in their attitudes, interests, and sexual orientations, but these are homosexual MtF transsexuals, who represent an entirely different transsexual type.The Case for Autogynephilia Having Explanatory MeaningA chapter addressing transsexuals’ opinions about the meaning and signi fi cance of autogynephilia would be incomplete without a brief statement of the case for autogynephilia operating as a meaningful explanatory factor in the lives of autogynephilic transsexuals, whether or not it is acknowledged as such. This is easily accomplished: With the exception of cross-dressing, we autogynephilic transsexuals rarely display female-typical behaviors, attitudes, or interests during childhoodor adulthood (e.g., Blanchard, 1990 ; Whitam, 1987, 1997 ) . Consequently, our gender dysphoria cannot plausibly be attributed to gender-atypical behaviors, attitudes, or interests. What can the gender dysphoria of autogynephilic transsexuals be attributed to? From what source does it derive? Autogynephilia provides the only obvious answer: Our gender dysphoria and our resulting cross-gender identities are direct outgrowths of our paraphilic desire to turn our bodies into facsimiles of women’s bodies.If autogynephilia is not considered a meaningful explanatory factor, then attempts to account for the gender dysphoria and cross-gender identities that we autogynephilic transsexuals experience quickly become circular, self-referential, and slightly ridiculous:Q: Why do you want to become a woman?A: Because I experience gender dysphoria.Q: What does that mean?A: That I experience persistent discomfort with my male sex and gender role.Q: Why are you so uncomfortable with your male sex and gender role?A: Because I want to become a woman.Q: Why do you want to become a woman?A: Because I have a strong and persistent cross-gender identity.Q: What does that mean?A: That I desire to be the other sex and live and be treated as a member of the other sex.Q: In other words?A: I want to become a woman.I would argue that an account that treats autogynephilia as a meaningful explanatory factor offers at least a modest improvement:Q: Why do you want to become a woman?A: Because I experience a paraphilic erotic desire to have a woman’s body.Q: Is there anything else?A: After having that desire for 20 years, I’ve started to think of myself as a woman, too.Q: Anything else?A: I love women and I have a desire to become more like the women I love.Q: I’m beginning to understand—but it makes me think your sexuality is very odd.A: You’re right; but I can only play the hand I was dealt.Perhaps someday we autogynephilic transsexuals will be able to forthrightly acknowledge the paraphilic hand we were dealt and play that hand without equivocation or apology. I will discuss this possibility in greater detail in Chap. 12 .As noted in Chap. 3 , some individuals who submitted narratives about autogynephilia were either nontranssexual or not demonstrably transsexual. I had originally intended to collect narratives only from informants who were recognizably transsexual; I felt it was important to document that autogynephilia was experienced not only by the fetishistic transvestites with whom it had traditionally been associated but also by recognizably transsexual persons. I knew, however, that attempting to draw a definitive line between autogynephilic transsexuals and nontranssexualautogynephiles was a dif fi cult if not an impossible exercise, even though I believed there were legitimate reasons for trying to do so. Consequently, I was not surprised to fi nd that the narratives by transsexual and nontranssexual (or not demonstrably transsexual) informants resembled each other in many respects: Transsexual and nontranssexual informants provided similar descriptions of their reactions to learning about autogynephilia, developmental histories, sexual attractions to women and men, and other sexual attitudes and behaviors.The principal differences between the two sets of narratives were that those by nontranssexual informants were less likely to describe severe gender dysphoria, anatomic autogynephilia, or the desire to live full-time as a woman. Interestingly, attempts to downplay the meaning and signi fi cance of autogynephilic arousal were also conspicuously absent in the narratives by nontranssexuals: Unlike their transsexual counterparts, the nontranssexual informants did not make any noticeable effort to describe autogynephilia as an effect rather than a cause of their cross-gender expression, as a nonsexual phenomenon that had become secondarily sexualized, as an epiphenomenon, or as a normal element of female sexuality. I speculate that nontranssexual informants may have been more willing to interpret their autogynephilic feelings as unambiguously erotic because, unlike their transsexual counterparts, they did not have well developed, highly valued identities as women that could potentially be discredited or compromised if they acknowledged that their desire to be female was associated with paraphilic erotic arousal.Given the similarities between the narratives submitted by the transsexual and nontranssexual informants, one might wonder why it would be useful to consider the latter narratives at all. There are at least three reasons. First, documenting the similarities between the two sets of narratives provides a further demonstration that autogynephilic transsexualism and less severe autogynephilic conditions are closely related clinical entities that exist on a continuum of symptomatology. Second, some of the narratives by nontranssexual informants contain informative descriptions of conditions that are closely related to autogynephilic transsexualism, such as partial autogynephilia. Third, some nontranssexual informants submitted unusually insight-ful or eloquent narratives that offer a more nuanced understanding of autogynephilia as it occurs in both transsexual and nontranssexual autogynephiles.Representative Narrative by a Nontranssexual AutogynephileThe following account by a nontranssexual informant illustrates many of the similarities and key differences between the typical narratives submitted by transsexual and nontranssexual autogynephiles. Like many of the transsexual informants, this individual reported the onset of cross-gender wishes at an early age, feelings of envy and lust toward women, and overt erotic arousal with cross-dressing—arousal that diminished with time but never completely disappeared. In this and subsequent narratives by nontranssexual autogynephiles, I will identify informants by the parenthesized letters “NTS” (for nontranssexual) and a two-digit number.I am 65 years old, happily married, and father of two children. My life, however, has been complicated since about age 5 by a strong desire to be female. My earliest memories are of going past the girls’ department in a store and wanting to wear the dresses and to be accepted as a girl. I also have early memories of being envious of the girls next door and wishing I could have long hair, polish my nails and wear pretty clothes. In middle school, when the girls were starting to become women, I began to feel cheated that they were becoming women and I was not. I envied the fact that they wore bras and nylons, dresses and heels.I wanted to be invited to their sleepovers. I, too, wanted to become a young woman, not to attract boys, but because I thought it would just feel really good to be a girl.This desire became so strong that I started trying on my mother’s clothes. I would often dress fully and imagine what it would be like to be a woman. I do not believe that there was a conscious sexual component to my activities. I would also frequently dream that my mother or older female cousins would allow me to dress as a woman and permit me to be one of the girls. By high school, however, my dressing had taken on a strong erotic component and would usually end with an orgasm and a profound feeling of shame and self-loathing. By that time, I knew that there was such a thing as a transvestite, a type of pervert, and that I was one of them. At the same time, I actively dated and outwardly appeared to be a typical high school boy.In college, I had the freedom to pursue my interest in being feminine. Within a month, I bought my fi rst pair of panties, which I would wear to bed and often under my male clothing. By my sophomore year, I was involved in a serious, physically and emotionallyRepresentative Narrative by a Nontranssexual Autogynephile intimate relationship. This gave me the courage to buy lingerie for my lover and sometimes myself. After a time, she would often permit me to wear her intimate items in the bedroom and on some level to be treated by her as a woman. Within a short time, I had accumulated a full feminine out fi t, was exploring makeup, and was experimenting with trying to present as a woman.After I fi nished professional school and moved to a large city to begin my professional career, my interest in dressing as a woman continued. Often, in the evening or on weekends I would fully dress with makeup and try to imagine myself as a woman. Within a year, I was beginning to go out to gay clubs dressed as a woman. It gave me a sense of well-being; I felt relaxed, as though on some level that was how I was meant to live.After I married, my wife had no knowledge of my desires. I would keep my out fi ts hidden in storage and would from time to time take off for the evening, rent a hotel room, and explore going out as a woman. I began to work with a professional makeup artist on makeup application. I began to thin my brows, and I also started working with a woman who gave instructions in how to present as a woman: how to walk, how to move, and how to use the ladies’ room. The better my feminine presentation became, the better I felt. By this time, I was going out to local clubs that catered to cross-dressers. I met other cross-dressers, which encouraged me even more.By the mid-1990s, I was becoming reasonably comfortable going out for the day as a woman. During that period, I married for the second time, to a woman who was a clinical psychologist. Shortly after our marriage, she learned of my proclivity and was willing to accommodate my feminine pursuits. She would shop with me as a girlfriend and would assist me in purchasing clothing and makeup. I was free to accumulate a feminine wardrobe.Over the past 10 years, I have become more comfortable spending time as a woman. It has become who I am. I regularly spend the day as a woman. I sometimes traveled as a woman, leaving home en femme and returning days later. I have found, however, that after three or four days, I need to get out of my feminine out fi t and go back to my life as a man.For this reason, and in spite of my thoughts about living full-time, I don’t think that it is reasonable for me.Thinking honestly about my desire to be feminine, I admit that there is an erotic part to it. I get turned on by what I see in the mirror, and I do get aroused, but this is only a minor part of what is going on. The major part is my desire to be acknowledged as female and to“be one of the girls.” I am probably most happy being out with other women, being treated as one of the girls. It relaxes me and somehow makes me feel that I am not pretending to be anything other than what I am. (NTS 01)Unlike many transsexual informants, this individual did not report that he disliked his male secondary sex characteristics or was unhappy about being male.He did not describe any attempts to feminize his body, except for thinning his eyebrows. Although he enjoyed living part-time in a feminine gender role, he had no desire to do so for longer than a few days. He also did not report any fantasies of having sex with men, a manifestation of behavioral autogynephilia that is signi fi cantly more prevalent in nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals than in non-transsexual cross-dressers (Docter & Fleming, 2001 ; Doorn et al., 1994 ) .At fi rst glance, this informant would seem to provide a textbook example of the ICD-10 diagnosis of dual-role transvestism (WHO, 1992 ) , which is de fi ned as: The wearing of clothes of the opposite sex for part of the individual’s existence in order to enjoy the temporary experience of membership of the opposite sex, but without any desire for a more permanent sex change or associated surgical reassignment, and without sexual excitement accompanying the cross-dressing [emphasis added]. (p. 365)A clinician who was treating a client with a history like that of the above informant and who did not elicit any admission of erotic arousal accompanying the client’s desire to present himself as a woman might mistakenly conclude that the ICD-diagnosis of dual-role transvestism was applicable. In fact, I believe this diagnosis is rarely, if ever, applicable to nonhomosexual transgender men.Nontranssexuals’ Identi fi cation with the Conceptof AutogynephiliaMany nontranssexual informants, like their transsexual counterparts, regarded the concept of autogynephilia as a revelation and believed that it accurately described their feelings and experiences. Here are two representative examples: I’m a normal male, married with three children. I have a career as an engineer, a decidedly male-typical job. My sexual orientation is completely heterosexual. And yet, since I reached puberty, I have had almost exclusively sexual fantasies about looking like, dressing like, or being transformed into a woman. The description of autogynephilia was the fi rst time I’ve read something that seemed to fi t what I was experiencing. (NTS 02) I was completely overwhelmed by the information on autogynephilia. I have been searching for so long, not so much for a label, but for an answer to many questions that have plagued my life for almost 40 years. Transsexual, transvestic, transgendered, androgynous?The premises of autogynephilia are so in-tune with me that it almost makes me want to shout in joyful wonderment at this discovery. (NTS 03)Nontranssexual informants suggested that the value of the concept of autogynephilia did not so much lie in providing a name for their condition as in offering an explanatory framework within which to make sense of their otherwise inexplicable feelings and behaviors.Like their transsexual counterparts, several nontranssexual informants reported that they had experienced penile erections or de fi nite erotic arousal in association with cross-dressing or cross-gender fantasies in early childhood:In one of your essays, you wrote of two cases of boys younger than age 3 who expressed a desire to cross-dress and became aroused when they did so. I found it odd that there were only two reported cases. I was around the same age when I cross-dressed for the fi rst time.I was highly attracted to my mother’s nylon stockings and I felt uncontrollably compelled to wear them. I have a very distinct memory of stealing a pair of stockings from my Mom’s dresser and retreating to my room to try them on. I could not have been more than 3 orFantasizing Being Female During Cross-dressing4 years old, at the very most. It was a wonderful feeling to wear her hose, and I distinctly remember experiencing an erection. Wearing her stockings made me feel like a girl, and I thoroughly enjoyed it. (NTS 04)I used to watch my mother comb and braid my female cousin’s long beautiful hair when she was staying with us. I was age 5 then and remember having strong erotic and sexual urges.I use to secretly want to wake up and be a girl; I so wanted my hair long. (NTS 05) Other nontranssexual informants also described the onset of cross-dressing in early childhood but did not recall this activity as being de fi nitely erotic until puberty.Here is a representative account:I am a 55-year-old cross-dresser. Another cross-dresser told me about autogynephilia, and it seems to fi t me like a glove. I have distinct memories of dressing in my sister’s clothes at probably about age 4; I cannot recall if it was sexually charged. There was no further activity until I was about age 12, and this time it was de fi nitely erotic. From ages 12 to 17, I actively dressed in my sister’s and mother’s clothes. I have had rare moments when I felt like I would like to just remain a woman. I have always admired pretty women and feel like life in general might be easier as a girl. Probably 95% of the time, though, it’s about the erotic aspect for me. (NTS 06)Note that this informant reported a very early onset of cross-dressing, even though the subsequent manifestations of his autogynephilic orientation were almost entirely erotic. This illustrates that the onset of cross-dressing in early childhood is not necessarily predictive of a developmental course in which cross-dressing in adulthood has little or no erotic motivation.Fantasizing Being Female During Cross-dressingAs discussed in Chap. 6 , autogynephilic persons, transsexual and nontranssexual, typically cross-dress in order to create or facilitate the thought or image of themselves as female. This rationale was explicitly described by one nontranssexual informant: At age 40, I began to see myself as a heterosexual cross-dresser. I did not fi nd that the sexual arousal associated with cross-dressing gradually went away with time, as Virginia Prince and others claimed. The gender aspects of cross-dressing and going out cross-dressed are an important part of my life, but so is the sexual aspect. And it is not clothing itself that is the primary source of my sexual arousal, but the perception of my body as being female.Even though I am fully male anatomically, in my mind I see myself having all the female parts. What the female garments, makeup, wig, jewelry, fragrance, etc. do for me is to enhance this feeling of myself as physically female. If I had been born later and found the social support I needed, I might eventually have sought SRS. Should I still call myself a heterosexual cross-dresser? Or am I a non-operative transsexual? (NTS 07) This narrative also illustrates that the dividing line between heterosexual crossdressing and autogynephilic transsexualism is often indistinct: This informant believed that he might have sought sex reassignment if his circumstances had been slightly different.Comfort and Prolonged Erotic Arousal with Cross-dressingThe nontranssexual informant whose narrative appeared fi rst in this chapter reported that he felt relaxed when he cross-dressed, just as some of the transsexual infor-mants whose narratives appeared in Chap. 6 had reported. Other nontranssexual informants expressed similar feelings. One reported that he valued the comfort that cross-dressing provided more than any associated erotic arousal:I am not on the transsexual side of the transgender scale; I identify as a cross-dressing male, and becoming a woman was never a goal of mine. I do not believe that transitioning is something I need to pursue. I am simply a man who enjoys dressing in what is culturally considered to be feminine attire. Yes, there is an erotic component to this at times, but the reality is that, more often, sexual excitement is not the desired goal or even the end result.I simply fi nd that I am comfortable dressed as a woman. This goes deeper than simply a sexual release or outlet. (NTS 08)As discussed in Chap. 6 , the relaxation and comfort that autogynephiles some-times experience in association with cross-dressing might be analogous to the feelings of comfort and emotional security that men sometimes experience in long-term romantic relationships. Alternatively, these feelings might represent low intensity sexual arousal that is not always recognized or interpreted as such (Docter, 1988 ) .Consistent with the latter interpretation, two other nontranssexual informants reported that they experienced and enjoyed the low intensity, long duration sexual arousal that resulted from extended periods of cross-dressing without orgasmic release: I wear very tight panties, 24/7; this controls penile erection and extends the time limits of sexual arousal. This never actually results in a full orgasm, allowing the dressing to go on a long time. Just to dress and masturbate is somewhat self-defeating. (NTS 09) I don’t identify as transsexual, as I do not feel a need to transition fully. But I certainly recognize the strong presence within me of autogynephilic motivations. As a child, I experienced vaguely erotic feelings with the thought of wearing girl’s clothes; with adolescence, these became very clearly erotic. In my 30s, it became more important to me to experience not an episodic and orgasmic eroticism, but a low level, long lasting “erotic buzz” from wearing something feminine secretly all day long. With increasing years (I’m now in my 40s), this changed into a desire to express myself as being feminine for others to see, with no (or very little) evident eroticism at all—but I still enjoy erotic fantasies of the old type at night. (NTS 10) The low level, long lasting “erotic buzz” described by the latter informant may be a good example of what Docter ( 1988 ) was referring to when he observed that “transvestism and transsexualism are, in part, mood altering behavioral strategies. They generate pleasurable excitement and a sense of well-being” (p. 118).Autogynephilic Fantasies Are Necessary for OrgasmSeveral nontranssexual informants, like many of their transsexual counterparts whose narratives appeared in previous chapters, reported that autogynephilic fantasies were often or always necessary to achieve arousal or orgasm during masturbation or partnered sexual activity. Here are a few examples:Competition with Heterosexual AttractionI’m a 29-year-old male who’s had autogynephilia since about 12 years old. I have always been strongly attracted to women and have absolutely no attraction to males. I have wanted so badly to live a normal guy’s life, but I cannot enjoy sex with a woman unless I fantasize about being one. (NTS 11)Brie fl y, I am an autogynephilic man and always was. I can feel sexually excited only by imagining that I am a woman and doing something feminine. But I don’t feel like a classically understood transsexual. I would like to be a woman only in sexual things. In all the rest of nonsexual human activity, I am a man and there is nothing feminine about me.(NTS 12)I am a university student in Denmark. Reading about autogynephilia concretized and made plain a number of things of which I had been aware but which I had been unable to express in so clear and lucid a manner. While having sex with my partner, I found it often necessary to fantasize about being a woman having lesbian sex with her in order to achieve orgasm.(NTS 13)These narratives provide further support for the idea that autogynephilia operates as a sexual orientation in some autogynephilic nontranssexual men as well as in autogynephilic transsexuals.Competition with Heterosexual AttractionA few nontranssexual informants discussed competition between their autogynephilic feelings and their attraction to women. One observed that, whereas making love with women was exciting, imagining being a woman oneself was even more exciting:I loved dating and making love with girls, and I was highly aroused by their lovely bodies.But I especially loved that closeness with girls helped me to learn more about them and made my own feminine feelings more authentic. One night, making out with a girlfriend and undressing her, I noticed a large damp spot in her panties. I had a feeling of overwhelming excitement to put her panties on, to feel from the dampness the exact location of a girl’s vagina on my body. Instead of making love with her at that point, I picked up her panties and faked a sudden need for the bathroom, so I could put them on and imagine I had a vagina and feel the dampness between my legs. This was one of the most exciting sexual experiences I had ever had. I didn’t masturbate, but I made love to the girl fantasizing that I was her. After I married, I secretly collected a stash of women’s clothes, lingerie, breast forms, shoes, and a wig. When I had the opportunity, I would dress up for the ultimate sexual experience. Feeling like a woman was far more exciting erotically than making love with one, and to this day I feel the same way. (NTS 14)This informant’s description of his eagerness to interrupt the progress of heterosexual intercourse in order to put on his partner’s panties and imagine himself having her anatomic features suggests something of the power of autogynephilic eroticism relative to ordinary heterosexual attraction. Women’s bodies are exciting, but imagining having a woman’s body oneself is even more exciting.As discussed in Chap. 8 , autogynephilic transsexuals sometimes engage in sex with men and often fantasize about doing so, even though they are not genuinely attracted to men’s bodies. Some nontranssexual autogynephiles reported similar experiences; here is one representative example:I’m a 49-year-old male. I’ve lacked a good way of describing myself, but the concept of autogynephilia really describes me well. I am attracted to females as a male, but I fantasize intensely about engaging in sex with men with me being a woman or at least a highly feminized version of myself. Male-to-male contact as such is something I fi nd especially unsexy. I’ve been with more than a dozen females and three males sexually; with the men, I made a point of appearing and feeling feminized or it would have been a total turn-off for me. I masturbate to fantasies about being way more feminized than now, and being with a man who is paying me for sex and is enthusiastically having sex with me from behind. (NTS 15)As previously noted in Chap. 1 , Blanchard ( 1989b ) suggested that “bisexual gender dysphorics’ interest in male sexual partners is mediated by a particularly strong desire to have their physical attractiveness as women validated by others”(p. 622). In the informant’s fantasy, this validation of physical attractiveness is suggested by the imagined male partner’s willingness to pay for sex and by his enthusiastic performance.Speci fi city of Autogynephilic ArousalSome autogynephilic persons fantasize about being women with certain speci fi c features or characteristics, rather than simply fantasizing about being generic women.These speci fi c characteristics are typically the same ones they fi nd most appealing inthe women to whom they are sexually attracted. Chap. 9 contained a good exampleof this kind of speci fi city of autogynephilic arousal: a narrative by an MtF transsexual who was speci fi cally attracted to women who wore leg braces and who wanted to be a woman who wore leg braces. A few informants in Chap. 7 similarly reportedthat, when they were especially attracted to a particular girl or woman, they had sexual fantasies about looking exactly like her or wearing her hairstyle or clothing.One nontranssexual informant described his speci fi c attraction to women of a different ethnicity than his own and his erotic fantasies about being a woman of that same ethnicity:I have self-diagnosed autogynephilia. I fi t all the autogynephilic criteria (transvestic fetishism, etc.), but it is not the only way for me to get aroused. I can remember fantasies of becoming a girl or wearing women’s clothing before the age of 10. I have not seriously considered undergoing sex reassignment surgery, although I can appreciate the strong, albeit sexual, motivation to undergo such an operation. My experience of autogynephilia may further validate the theory that this paraphilia is a projection of one’s object of desire onto oneself. I am an Asian male, but I do not fantasize about being an Asian woman, but rather a Caucasian woman, because I prefer and am most sexually attracted to Caucasian women. Thus, autogynephilia may not simply be the fantasy of being a woman, but the fantasy of being one’s desired sexual object. (NTS 16)Desire to Eliminate or Control Autogynephilic Feelings In my clinical practice, I have sometimes had autogynephilic transsexual clients who stated that their most intense heterosexual attraction was directed toward women with a speci fi c physical appearance or somatic type. Not surprisingly, the cross-gender identi fi cations that these clients displayed were often speci fi c in exactly the same way. One of my autogynephilic transsexual clients, for example, was particularly attracted to female bodybuilders and fantasized about becoming a female bodybuilder herself.Autogynephilia and Female BeautyOne nontranssexual informant stated that he considered autogynephilia to be an emotional experience as well as an erotic one; he seemed to connect the emotional aspect of autogynephilia with his appreciation of female beauty and his interest in representing it through art. He also reported that, whereas he felt some sexual attraction to both women and men, he was only romantically attracted to women.Your explication and elaboration of the concept of autogynephilia resonated deeply with me and helped me to identify and admit the feelings I was having. I cross-dressed for the fi rst time at age 13. I found it very arousing. For me, autogynephilia is a sexual experience, but it is also an emotional experience. I am fascinated by female beauty. I am an artist, and I have been drawing and painting beautiful women since puberty. I’ve never felt strongly motivated to draw the nude male body. At age 19, I discovered that I was bisexual. Yet, the percentage of males I have any interest in is very small, and I don’t think I could ever have a romantic relationship with a male. My homosexual fantasies mostly just revolve around a penis penetrating me, rather than being about a complete man. When I am fantasizing about women, however, even imaginary ones, I will be thinking about the female form in its totality. (NTS 17)In explicitly raising the issue of the appeal of female beauty, this informant touched on an important but infrequently discussed aspect of the cross-gender wishes we autogynephilic persons experience: our desire to turn our bodies into facsimiles of what we fi nd beautiful—indeed, what we fi nd more beautiful than anything else on earth. As John Updike ( 1991 ) perceptively observed, “A naked woman is, for most men, the most beautiful thing they will ever see; on this planet, the female body is the prime aesthetic object” (p. 5). We autogynephiles desire to become facsimiles of the most beautiful things on this planet.Desire to Eliminate or Control Autogynephilic FeelingsSome nontranssexual informants believed that they would never be able to actualize their autogynephilic desires, because doing so would mean abandoning their obligations to their families. Consequently, they wanted to eliminate or control their autogynephilic desires, in order to feel less tormented by them.The article on autogynephilia hit the nail on the head with me. I am a 37-year-old male with a wife and two children. I have been having thoughts about being a girl that sexually excited me since I was 4 years old. I remember in nursery school that there was a ballerina’s out fi t I used to put on. I look at beautiful women and do get aroused; however, I cannot climax unless I think about becoming a woman. When I have sex with my wife, I have to think about becoming a woman in order to climax. Is SRS the cure? I hope there can be another cure. I couldn’t go through transition and SRS in my situation; it would destroy my whole family. I wish there were something I could do that could cure this inner demon. (NTS 18) I’m in my early 40s and am quite masculine in appearance and manner. I have had physical and behavioral autogynephilic fantasies since puberty. Autogynephilic thoughts and images now dominate my mind much, if not all, of the time. The obsessive fantasy of being physically feminized using hormones, surgery, shaving, electrolysis, permanent cosmetics, etc., pretty much describes my sexual landscape. If I’m not thinking about it, I’m looking for porn about it or writing porn about it myself.Despite the urges, which are very intense at times, I’ve avoided acting on anything physically or behaviorally autogynephilic so far, for several reasons. First, I would never come even close to passing as a woman, and I’d be letting my sexuality lead me into an ostracized lifestyle and throwing away a lucrative, hard-won career. I don’t see that as a path to greater happiness. Also, acting on my autogynephilic urges would not be faithful to the family responsibilities I’ve taken on.At this point, I’m seeking counseling and want to get on a course of antiandrogens to turn down the testosterone-induced heat on the autogynephilic fi res. But it’s also true that the thought of the feminization that will accompany the hormones is a source of excitement in and of itself. I suppose that, technically, some would then view me as a pre-op or non-op MtF transsexual, but I just consider myself a person with autogynephilia who is working to balance his sexual and nonsexual urges while trying to live a good life. (NTS 19)These narratives are in some ways reminiscent of a few in Chap. 6 that were submitted by nominally transsexual informants who wanted to undergo SRS but live as men afterwards or who had successfully carried out such a plan. In both sets of narratives, the informants had decided that living full time as women was impossible or impractical, but they differed in the solution that they desired (or achieved): either attempting to suppress their cross-gender wishes or attempting to express those wishes to the extent that seemed feasible by undergoing SRS but not undertaking a gender role transition.Wide-Ranging Autogynephilic InterestsA few nontranssexual informants provided narratives that described a wide range of autogynephilic fantasies and behaviors in great detail. One such informant reported that he experienced all four major types of autogynephilia (transvestic, behavioral, physiologic, and anatomic):I have all four varieties of autogynephilia. My desire to crossdress is intense and continual.I have all these beautiful angora dresses, sweaters, hats, muffs, bonnets, scarves, gloves, purses, slippers, etc. When I am dressed up, the erotic intensity is beyond words. I have an intense desire to wear certain female clothing items, ballet dresses (tutus) being the most signi fi cant. I have spontaneously ejaculated with no masturbation over many of these items.Partial Anatomic AutogynephiliaI love being with big groups of women and doing women’s things, like my knitting. I have done this in the past wearing women’s clothes and it was a great high. I have major fantasies about breast feeding, dressing as a lady pushing a baby carriage, and having periods. I have worn a Kotex belt and pad under my skirts and dresses. Fourthly, I fantasize about having a woman’s body. I love wearing fuzzy dresses with silicone breast forms and a muff (made out of a wig) and hiking my skirt up and running my hands over my breasts and down over my muff, imagining myself as a woman. (NTS 20)Another informant’s narrative provided a detailed description of autogynephilic fantasies involving an imagined girlhood:I think of myself as a heterosexual male. However, I fantasize about being a woman. In this fantasy, I am bisexual and very sexually active. I also like to imagine performing other female activities: buying clothes, grooming myself, dating men and women, keeping house, having a period, having a baby, and getting married. Some of my favorite sexual fantasies include: being the submissive partner to a masculine lesbian, being swept off my feet by a gentleman, being a glamour model, being a housewife, and being a whore. I also fi nd the idea of being raped as a woman very exciting. When I am sexually aroused, I get turned on by female things, not just sex as a woman. I think about what I would have been like as a little girl: my bedroom, school uniform, toys, being called “daddy’s best girl,” and having my fi rst period. Even as I write this, I have an erection, thinking about getting dolls for Christmas, buying my fi rst bra, having a boyfriend and letting him touch me inside my knickers. I could even get turned on by thoughts of having a Pap smear test or taking the pill. The idea of being a girl, of being treated like a girl, and of doing girls things is what I crave. (NTS 21) This informant’s fi nal fantasy images, which eroticize Pap smears and oral contraceptive use, offer yet another illustration that virtually any aspect of women’s experience can act as the basis of an autogynephilic fantasy.Partial Anatomic AutogynephiliaBlanchard ( 1993b ) used the term partial autogynephilia to describe “autogynephiles whose erotic self-images include a mixture of male and female anatomic features, most often women’s breasts and men’s genitals” (p. 71). As noted in Chap. 3 ,I decided for the sake of consistency to categorize as nontranssexual those informants with partial autogynephilia who reported the desire to have women’s breasts but did not report any desire for SRS. Some informants who wanted women’s breasts never expressed an opinion about SRS; those who did usually seemed to regard SRS as unnecessary rather than undesirable. In contrast to the cases of partial autogynephilia described by Blanchard ( 1993b ) , none of the informants with partial autogynephilia who wanted women’s breasts emphasized that possession of male genitalia was an essential element of their desired sexual self-image. Here are several representative narratives by informants with partial autogynephilia who desired to have women’s breasts:I can relate to most autogynephilic feelings, but I’m especially into breasts. I was jealous on seeing a woman with a large chest or a young girl who was beginning to develop. I bought breast forms to wear at home. A few years later I began to take hormones. They grew to thepoint of having enough weight and volume to become bouncy; then I realized what I had always needed was having to wear a bra! Having to wear a bra and letting the world see them was such a great feeling. Since then I have had breast augmentation; I’m now a full 38C or baby D. I don’t know if I will ever have SRS; that’s not really a main goal of mine right now. I now live my fantasy: I now am one of those women I used to see with a large chest. (NTS 22)I get aroused and excited when wearing women’s clothing. I always have loved women with large breasts. However, I have discovered that my feeling for women involving their breasts is the wish that I had them. I have size 38DD breast forms; I wear them all the time now. To feel the way they move, how they get in the way of your movements, and the constant reminder that they are there due to their size, drives me crazy with the desire to have a set of my own. Any inconvenience of having large breasts would be a very small price to pay for the pleasure and feeling they would have for me. If it were possible to take a drug or something and wake up the next morning and be transformed into a woman with large breasts, I would do it in a second. (NTS 23)The idea of developing breasts has been a strong driving force for me. I’ve always been jealous of women and their bodies since I was very young. As I got older, I began to crossdress frequently, fi rst in my mother’s clothes, then venturing out to buy my own. My biggest thrill was buying a set of breast forms. This satis fi ed my urges and desires, at least for a while. The more I wore them, the more I wanted to wear them. My therapist fi nally directed me to a doctor who prescribed a low dosage of hormones for me. After about 6 months, I began to see some development. I am thrilled to death regarding these changes. It’s hard to hide my breasts now, as they have grown to a B cup. I am trying to decide between going forward and living as a woman or just being a man with breasts. (NTS 24) I am a 36-year-old male. I have cross-dressed ever since I can remember. In my late twenties, I began to focus on breasts: not just physical attraction to a woman’s breasts, but to the idea of possessing them myself. I now want to develop breasts through hormone therapy or undergo surgery to augment my breasts. My whole arousal emanates from having breasts.My goal is to fi nd a doctor who will prescribe hormones for me to develop breasts or a plastic surgeon to perform breast augmentation on me. Whatever the other effects on my body, it would relieve the frustration I feel now. (NTS 25)I am a male in my mid-60s. I have had a fascination with breasts as long as I can remember.As a teen, I wore my mother’s bra when no one was home and masturbated, fantasizing that the breasts were my own. This is the only physical change I want. If I had breasts, nothing would change towards the outer world. It would be my secret and ful fi lled desire. My sexuality wouldn’t change, except that feeling them grow and being able to play with them would bring me close to an orgasm. (NTS 26)I am a heterosexual male in my late 20s. I fi rst started fantasizing about what it would be like having very large breasts after I was intrigued by big-breasted pornographic models. I purchased very large breast forms and have worn them at least 5 hours a day when by myself. Typically I masturbate at least three times a day wearing them. The feel of having the weight on my chest is very erotic to me. I fantasize about getting breast augmentation, but I know I couldn’t get them as large as I would like them. (NTS 27) I am an autogynephilic person. I have a very strong desire to grow and augment my breasts.The desire is so strong that I have been taking hormones to enhance my bust, and I am also using breast pumps to get larger feminine nipples. I have no desire to do full SRS, as I only want large breasts and to appear feminine for sexual grati fi cation. (NTS 28) I am a 45-year-old straight male. I have a strong, unstoppable desire to develop female breasts.I have invested unbelievable amounts of time and energy over the last 17 years to develop them. But I have no desire to be anything other than a heterosexual male (with breasts).Co-occurring ParaphiliasI have very little interest in cross-dressing and none whatsoever in presenting myself as a woman in public. I believe the existence of anatomic autogynephilia in heterosexual males should be recognized. I think it is possible that the inability of men like me to ful fi ll our unrelenting desire to have breasts may push many of us toward full SRS. I don’t want to go that far. I like who I am, the way I am. I just want to hide a pair of breasts under my shirt and go about my life as usual. (NTS 29)In my opinion, the concern expressed by the last informant—that the desire to have women’s breasts might push some partial autogynephiles toward seeking SRSwhen they don’t actually want it—is probably overstated. Nevertheless, he is correct in observing that there has been little recognition of the phenomenon of partial anatomic autogynephilia and little attention directed toward helping persons who experience the paraphilic desire to feminize their bodies but would be content with (or would prefer) something short of complete gender role transition and SRS.I discuss this issue in greater detail in Chap. 12 .Co-occurring ParaphiliasAs discussed in Chap. 9 , paraphilias tend to co-occur, and autogynephilic persons often report one or more other paraphilias in addition to autogynephilia. Several nontranssexual informants reported other concurrent paraphilias, including sexual masochism, amputation-related paraphilias, gynemimetophilia and gynandromorphophilia, and unspeci fi ed paraphilias.Sexual MasochismThe following narratives expand on the masochistic themes described by thetranssexual informants in Chap. 9 . One nontranssexual autogynephile described masochistic fantasies and behaviors involving self-in fl icted humiliation achieved by identifying himself as a feminized man or transvestite to strangers or casual acquaintances in public places:I have major fantasies of being dominated, feminized, dressed by women and laughed at and being humiliated by them. I love to dress outrageously and go out in public for the shock value and laughter it creates. I can go to a shopping mall for hours with a fake story for every clerk in every store that usually gets laughter or humiliation. I will tell women I need clothes for a sex change operation, or ask in front of a bunch of ladies if I can shop dressed as a lady, or ask if transvestites are welcome to shop here. I will say I am getting maternity clothes so I can host a baby shower, or buying purses or hats for a ladies’ garden party, or buying dresses so my mother and I can doll up together. I will relate how my mother and friends caught me in my mother’s clothes, or how my Auntie fi rst dolled me up, or my career as a female impersonator, or my career as a dancing girl, or how much I love to dress as a ballerina and dance. I love going to beauty parlors and having the women make me up as a girl and laugh when I come out in some silly out fi t. I love going to have my nails done, dressed as a lady. I see it as a paraphilia and feel that looking for laughter, humiliation, etc. is a form of masochism. (NTS 20)Another nontranssexual informant reported masochistic fantasies involving both feminization and other traditional or stereotypic elements of sexual masochism, including bondage or loss of freedom, objecti fi cation, and sexual victimization: I believe I am an autogynephiliac, not a classical transsexual. I come from a fairly macho, Latin culture, and I’m aroused by the thought of being a submissive female having sex with an aggressive, macho man. There is always an element in my fantasies of being treated as an object, of being used in different ways. My fantasies often involve humiliation.I sometimes fantasize being a sexual slave. This generally involves kidnapping and bondage. The fantasies sometimes involve gradual feminization; in such cases, the fi rst step is always getting my legs shaved and being forced to dress as a female. The scenarios sometimes involve prostitution. A recurring image is that I awake, not knowing where I am, and I’m gagged, blindfolded and bound to a bed, facing down, my hips raised by a couple of pillows. As I try to move, I realize I’ve been dressed as a female; my out fi t always includes a bra, panties and skirt. A man climbs onto the bed, and, as he fondles my legs, I realize they’ve been shaven. As he positions himself for penetration, I feel his legs against mine; his are muscular and, importantly, hairy. Always, he lifts up my skirt and pulls down my panties before vigorously penetrating me. If he speaks, it is always to humiliate me.I also fantasize myself as an ultra-traditional wife. In these fantasies, it’s like waking up in a parallel universe where I have always been female. My life revolves around sexually pleasing my husband, pregnancy, and breastfeeding. I only fantasize about the relationship with my husband in strictly sexual terms. The wedding itself isn’t part of the fantasy, except for losing my virginity on my wedding night. The fantasy usually starts with fantasizing about experiencing female puberty. These fantasies are generally not taking place in my culture but in even more traditional ones, with arranged marriages. (NTS 30) Yet another informant’s most exciting masochistic fantasies originally involved being tortured and killed, albeit not speci fi cally as a female. These fantasies gradually morphed into the fantasy of being a young female rape victim:I seem to fall pretty squarely into the group Blanchard calls autogynephilic. I have been married once, and all my sexual partners have been female. Starting when I was about three years old, I became conscious of an extremely pleasurable sensation from fantasies of sadomasochism. I found delight in the thought of being brutalized, humiliated, tied up, slashed, dismembered, and killed. At fi rst, my imagined persona might be man, woman, child, or animal. After about age seven or eight, however, I usually liked to be a pretty young woman being tortured to death by a psycho. My fantasy would almost always end in being stabbed to death with a knife in the belly, which I found exquisitely satisfying and powerfully compelling. Shortly after I turned 14, one of these fantasies produced penile contractions and I soon discovered the concept of sex. I abandoned my longstanding childhood fantasy of being a pretty young woman being tortured to death and replaced it with the fantasy of being a pretty young woman being forcibly raped. Since that time, variations on the rape fantasy have always been my most compelling source of sexual excitement. These fantasies presume that I am a biological woman. Less commonly, but with increasing frequency in recent years, I have also enjoyed fantasies of being turned into a woman. These fantasies are less exciting than the rape fantasies. (NTS 31)This narrative provides another example of the phenomenon of “paraphilic substitution.” This is the term I introduced in Chap. 9 to describe the process bywhich very disturbing or unacceptable paraphilic fantasies sometimes become replaced by less distressing, more acceptable ones. Autogynephilic fantasies, even those involving rape, are probably less distressing than many other paraphilic fantasies (e.g., those involving being tortured to death). Consequently, it is notCo-occurring Paraphiliassurprising that autogynephilic fantasies might take a prominent role in paraphilic substitution in individuals who experienced some autogynephilic erotic interest.Acrotomophilia and Apotemnophilia (Amputation Paraphilia)A paraphilic erotic interest in amputees as sexual or romantic partners is called acrotomophilia (Money, 1986 ) . A paraphilic erotic interest in being an amputee oneself is calledapotemnophilia(Money et al.,). In a review article(Lawrence, 2006 ) , I proposed that apotemnophilia probably re fl ects an erotic target location error in men who are sexually attracted to amputees (i.e., who are acrotomophilic), just as autogynephilia represents an erotic target location error in men who are sexually attracted to women.One nontranssexual autogynephile described experiencing both acrotomophilia and apotemnophilia. The colloquial terms devotee and wannabe , used by this informant in the narrative below, are commonly employed by acrotomophilic and apo-temnophilic persons in reference to themselves (Bruno, 1997 ) .I remember from my early development being turned-on at the idea of being a woman, but it was never all-consuming. What had been an overriding force was acrotomophilia and apotemnophilia, a blend of devotee and wannabe tendencies. As I understood it, the traditional notion of “woman trapped in a man’s body” was generally something people were aware of from an early age. While there were signs I can see now, I missed them until a few months ago. With the apotemnophilic and acrotomophilic side of things, that’s not the case.I was aware of odd feelings about amputees from a very young age, possibly as early as or 5 years old.My earliest memory of anything to do with amputees was fi rst noticing a couple of amputees while traveling with my parents; even at the time, it prompted an odd feeling. An occasional interest that triggered inexplicable feelings at that young age somehow became more important with the onset of puberty (i.e., I became turned-on). Seeing images of amputees, thinking about them, and sitting in certain positions that reminded me of them seemed to trigger the same sort of feelings as thinking about girls or seeing images of scantily clad women. I remember the fi rst time I ever actually came was while sitting with both legs folded underneath me, as if I were a double above-the-knee amputee. That has to be an important moment for any teenage boy. I liked girls and the idea of amputees, so I guess it follows that amputee girls would be like a holy grail for me. That was true, but there was also something about the process of such extreme, generally involuntary, body modi fi cation that was fascinating.At college there were plenty of girls, so the amputee side of things took a back seat for a while. It was still there, though, and I started to collect a few images from the Internet. More importantly, I realized that I wasn’t the only one who felt like this. In the past, I’d considered the idea of engineering a situation where I lost one or both legs, but I realized that the practicality was probably vastly different from the fantasy. While the permanence was part of the turn-on, I knew enough about myself to realize it was probably a bad idea. So, I stuck with pretending.A few months back, I started experimenting with cross-dressing. Somehow, I went from amputee pretending and some experimentation with a set of breast forms I’d bought earlier to trying on a dress to go with them. Soon I had some boots and a couple of wigs. I took several photos and I saw myself like I never had before. I actually liked the image; I couldn’t stoplooking at the pictures. Realizing that I’d had autogynephilic tendencies in the past, I fi gured that I might have been suppressing this side of me the whole time. Of my two erotic targets, girls and amputees, at least one of them was looking viable. I realized that this was something signi fi cant and was reeling at the possibilities. Was I a transvestite or did I actually want SRStoo? With time and re fl ection, I realized that I didn’t want a full sex change but did want to go at least part of the way. I’d have breast augmentation tomorrow, given half a chance.My apotemnophilia is still there, but it’s not the overriding drive that it was before. I feel like the destructive force of wanting to become an amputee has been quelled to a large extent and replaced with a more positive notion of becoming something I love: me. I don’t think I can expect the apotemnophilic feelings to just disappear, but now they are not the driving force. (NTS 32)This narrative offers yet another example of the phenomenon of paraphilic substitution. The informant’s intense but unacceptable paraphilia, apotemnophilia, was eventually superseded by a paraphilia that the informant considered more acceptable or benign, autogynephilia.Gynemimetophilia and GynandromorphophiliaAs noted in Chap. 9 , gynemimetophilia and gynandromorphophilia are closely related, partially overlapping terms that describe the paraphilic interest some persons have in transvestites, she-males, or MtF transsexuals as sexual or romantic partners. Two nontranssexual autogynephiles reported a speci fi c sexual attraction to persons in these categories; the fi rst of the informants offered this account: I’m 31 years old. I was married for ten years and have two children. I’m now in a very loving relationship with a transsexual woman. I have fantasies of dressing and acting as a woman, but I’ve never had the desire to act on those fantasies; I’m primarily aroused by the idea of presenting myself as a woman. I’m also extremely attracted to cross-dressing males, whether they be drag queens or transsexuals. I have discussed this with my girlfriend, the MtF transsexual, and it’s clear that we are very different. I’m not a transsexual like she is.But I’m extremely aroused by the thought of dressing like a woman and doing womanly things.I de fi nitely want to have sex with attractive drag queens or transsexuals when I see them.When I met my current girlfriend, I had no idea she was a man, and I found her extremely attractive. I emailed her right away and asked for a date. It was after that that one of my friends told me she was a transsexual, and I was even more attracted to her then. This was before her gender reassignment, and we enjoyed a few very good sexual experiences before her surgery. I still fi nd her just as attractive and just as exciting after her surgery, but we haven’t been sexually active yet. (NTS 33)Although this informant had experienced extremely arousing erotic fantasies about dressing like or being a woman, he had never actualized these fantasies; instead, he dated and had sex with an MtF transsexual who had actualized her own desire to be a woman. This informant’s narrative would seem to provide an excellent example of Person’s ( 1995 ) observation, previously quoted in Chap. 7 , that “fantasy may begrati fi ed through bonding with someone who has already actualized one’s own fantasy …. The identi fi cation process allows us to enjoy our fantasies vicariously, that is, at one remove, without suffering guilt or anxiety.” (p. 131).Co-occurring ParaphiliasThe second informant, a nontranssexual autogynephile who explicitly identi fi ed as gynandromorphophilic, provided this statement:Thanks for your 1997 paper on sexual attraction between autogynephilic transsexual women.You were way ahead of your time on this topic, based on the misinformation I hear from so many transsexual women. Based upon my own experiences and those of other gynandromorphophilic males, it seems painfully clear that we prefer as partners transsexual women with strong autogynephilic tendencies. To be more precise, we prefer men who are trapped in the bodies of fully transitioned pre-op transsexual women. I hope you can appreciate the distinction I have drawn from your own title “men trapped in the bodies of men.” (NTS 34) This individual was referring to one of my earliest conference presentations(Lawrence, 1997 ) , in which I offered the following hypothesis: Could it be that some of us fi nd other transsexuals especially desirable as partners because they exemplify the autogynephilia at the core of our desire? Because they mirror our own minds, are our own fantasies made fl esh? Attending to our internal autogynephilic imagery, many of us metaphorically “make love to ourselves,” whether we are by ourselves or with another. And when this feels too lonely, what partner could be better—and less distracting—than one who is essentially a clone of ourselves? (para. 22)There is evidence that many gynandromorphophiles are themselves cross-dressers (i.e., transvestites or she-males) and are putatively autogynephilic. Blanchard and Collins ( 1993 ) studied personal advertisements placed by 88 gynandromorphophilic men who sought transvestites, she-males, or other cross-dressing men as sexual or romantic partners; of these, 37 (42%) described themselves as cross-dressers in their advertisements. The phenomenon of gynandromorphophilic men who are also autogynephilic is widely recognized within the MtF transsexual community: One of my MtF transsexual clients said of the gynandromorphophiles she had encountered, “They can’t decide whether they want to have sex with us or be us.”Other ParaphiliasAnother informant reported experiencing autogynephilia, sadomasochism, and several other unspeci fi ed paraphilias. He described his hope that putting greater emphasis on his sadomasochistic paraphilic interests might result in less pressure to act out his autogynephilic fantasies:I’ve never seen a more accurate description of my own inner struggle than the information you’ve published explaining physiologic autogynephilia. About 3 years ago, I fi gured out that I had a cluster of paraphilias—legal ones only, thank God. I noticed a distinctive pattern in the “forced-feminization” stories that I’m drawn to reading and writing. I just turned and have reached a stage at which my interest in paraphilias has nearly crowded out interests in “vanilla” sexuality entirely. I fi nd myself uninterested in relations with my wife and only novelty inspires an interest in nonparaphilic sexuality. I don’t know where I’ll go with all this; I’m in a politically sensitive fi eld, public speaking is a large part of my job, and I’m not a great candidate for passing as female. Since about half of my paraphilias are sadomasochism-related and still spark interest, I’m considering moving back into that community, in the hope that satisfying the nonautogynephilic paraphilias will render the autogynephilic urges less urgent. (NTS 35)This narrative once again describes the phenomenon of paraphilic substitution, here in the form of a deliberate strategy. After concluding that acting out his autogynephilic desires might lead to the loss of his job, and realizing that he would not make a very passable woman, this informant was considering putting greater emphasis on expressing his sadomasochistic paraphilic interests, in the belief that the pressure to express his autogynephilic fantasies might diminish accordingly.Concluding Thoughts about Narratives by NontranssexualAutogynephilesNot surprisingly, the narratives submitted by the nontranssexual (or not demonstrably transsexual) informants were similar in content to those submitted by their transsexual counterparts. This is consistent with the idea that autogynephilic transsexualism and less severe manifestations of autogynephilia are part of a spectrum or continuum of symptomatology. Nevertheless, there were a few intriguing differences between the two sets of narratives.The most interesting difference, in my opinion, was that the nontranssexual informants made no discernable effort to conceptualize autogynephilia as anything other than a paraphilic erotic phenomenon. They did not theorize that it was an effect rather than a cause of their fantasies of being female or suggest that it was originally a nonsexual phenomenon that had somehow accidentally become eroticized. They did not characterize it as unimportant, as an epiphenomenon, or as a manifestation of normal female sexuality. One could argue, of course, that autogynephilia in transsexuals and in nontranssexuals are actually two qualitatively different phenomena that only super fi cially resemble each other and that this accounts for the differences in the ways the two sets of informants thought about their feelings and experiences. Alternatively, one could argue that autogynephilia is the same phenomenon in both groups but that the transsexual informants had simply been motivated to re fl ect more deeply on their feelings and had arrived at a level of understanding that had escaped their nontranssexual counterparts. I’m con fi dent that the opponents of Blanchard’s theory will propose one or both of these explanations after this book is published.I believe that the more likely explanation, however, is that the nontranssexual informants simply felt less incentive to make excuses for their autogynephilic feelings. Unlike their transsexual counterparts, they were not in the position of trying to justify their desires to undergo sex reassignment (or their past decisions to do so) in the face of the still widely accepted message that anyone who has been erotically aroused by the idea of being a female cannot be a “real” MtF transsexual. This message was ubiquitous in the older psychiatric literature and is still touted on some Internet websites run by MtF transsexuals who deny that they are autogynephilic.More recently, this same message has been circulating in an updated, amended form: A person who has been erotically aroused by the idea of being a female can be a “real” MtF transsexual, as long as that erotic arousal doesn’t really meanConcluding Thoughts about Narratives by Nontranssexual Autogynephiles anything : if it is accidental or is an effect rather than a cause of one’s gender dysphoria or is just something that normal women experience. Thus, it is easy to understand why some of the transsexual informants in the current study were eager to insist that their autogynephilic arousal did not really mean anything.The nontranssexual informants seemingly could afford to be more clear-eyed and candid: They were able to recognize autogynephilic arousal for the paraphilic phenomenon it genuinely is and acknowledge this without equivocation. Could more transsexuals who experience autogynephilia eventually achieve this same level of clear-eyed self-recognition and candor? I will address this possibility in Chap. 12 .In thisfinal chapter, I offer a broader perspective concerning the nature and implications of autogynephilic transsexualism. My analysis is based on the narratives submitted by the 249 autogynephilic transsexual informants and the 52 nontranssexual autogynephiles, the clinical and research literature, and my experience with transsexual clients. I summarize some of the most important observations and re fl ections contained in the narratives and suggest how this information might help clinicians in case conceptualization and treatment planning for autogynephilic clients. I address the shame that many of us autogynephilic transsexuals feel about our condition and consider whether anything can be done to reduce it. I examine some of the options available to severely gender dysphoric autogynephilic men and their potential bene fi ts and drawbacks. I describe a possible future treatment for autogynephilic transsexualism and discuss whether and how this treatment might eventually become available. Finally, I propose that, notwithstanding its many limitations, sex reassignment as currently practiced can offer autogynephilic transsexuals a pathway to a life of greater satisfaction, passion, and spiritual ful fi llment.Autogynephilic Transsexualism: Maybe Not So Rare After All?The critics of Blanchard’s theory of autogynephilic transsexualism have long been forced to concede that some MtF transsexuals believed the theory was valid and accurately described them. But avowedly autogynephilic transsexuals have historically been few in number. This has allowed some critics to get away with suggesting that autogynephilic transsexualism is rare or even “exotic.” I don’t expect the critics to change their stance any time soon; but with the publication of this book, the number of admittedly autogynephilic transsexuals described in the academic literature has probably increased by two orders of magnitude. As one who values diversity, I consider this a positive sign.I should quickly add that not all of the 249 MtF transsexual informants who admitted to experiencing autogynephilic arousal agreed with Blanchard’s ideas or mine on every point. Roughly 30 of them—about 12%—believed that the autogynephilic arousal they experienced was unimportant, was a manifestation of normal female sexuality, or was an effect rather than a cause of their gender dysphoria.Overall, however, the informants’ narratives were strongly supportive of Blanchard’s ideas.What Do Autogynephilic Transsexuals SayAbout Their Condition?Many of the informants considered the concept of autogynephilia to be a revelation: They reported that it was the fi rst theory they had encountered that actually seemed to describe them. Often they were grateful to have learned about the theory, and they stated that it had improved their understanding of themselves. Many were relieved to discover that other transsexuals shared similar feelings. A few, however, found that recognizing themselves in the theory was disconcerting, as though their comfortable illusions about themselves had been shattered. Several informants reported that their autogynephilic feelings had previously made them doubt that they were really transsexual. Many had been reluctant to admit their feelings to their therapists or had lied to or misled their therapists concerning their feelings—perhaps yet another reason for the widespread but mistaken belief that autogynephilic transsexualism is rare.Several informants began cross-dressing or having cross-gender fantasies in early childhood, long before puberty. Sometimes these early childhood behaviors and fantasies were accompanied by penile erections, masturbation, or feelings of intense excitement that informants identi fi ed as erotic. The erotic feelings associated with cross-dressing or cross-gender fantasies sometimes receded for a few years but typically reappeared at puberty. Autogynephilic erotic feelings commonly, but not invariably, continued throughout the informants’ lives, including after SRS.In spite of their desire to be female, most of the informants denied that they had been feminine boys: Except for their autogynephilic fantasies and behaviors, they usually described themselves as having been unremarkably masculine. Those who mentioned their adult occupations usually reported male-typical ones.The informants were invariably sexually attracted to women, for whom they felt a confusing mixture of lust and envy. Although they found women’s bodies sexually arousing, many were never able to reach orgasm during heterosexual intercourse without engaging in autogynephilic fantasy: They discovered that the fantasy of being female themselves was more exciting than an actual female partner. Many fantasized about or engaged in sex with men, but only when they imagined themselves to be women; at other times, they found the idea of sex with men unappealing or repugnant.How Can Understanding Autogynephilic Transsexualism Inform Clinical Care?Some informants found autogynephilic arousal unpleasant. Others were confused or distressed by the rapid but temporary remission of their cross-gender wishes that often occurred immediately following orgasm. Many valued the ability of hormone therapy to reduce their gender dysphoria, but a few experienced an unexpected weakening or disappearance of their cross-gender wishes and desire to pursue sex reassignment after beginning hormone therapy. A signi fi cant number of informants reported other co-occurring paraphilic interests. Finally, as noted earlier, some informants offered explanations that attempted to reconcile their autogynephilic feelings and behaviors with traditional theories and beliefs about MtF transsexualism.How Can Understanding Autogynephilic TranssexualismInform Clinical Care?Most clinicians will probably regard the narratives in the previous chapters as fascinating, revealing, and a source of greater knowledge and understanding. Some may wonder, however, how to use this knowledge in their clinical practices with gender dysphoric autogynephilic clients. I believe that a clear understanding of the concept of autogynephilic transsexualism and its clinical manifestations can help practitio-ners with case conceptualization, formulation of prognostic information for clients, and treatment planning. Clinicians who are interested in a more detailed examinationof these issues may wish to consult one of my review articles (Lawrence, 2009b ) .The concept of autogynephilic transsexualism provides a useful model for conceptualizing the etiology and development of the most common form of MtF transsexualism in Western countries. In particular, it convincingly explains why some men who are not naturally feminine and who are sexually attracted to women experience the overpowering desire to turn their bodies into facsimiles of women’s bodies and live as women. Traditional explanations of this phenomenon—ones that do not include the concept of autogynephilia—are inevitably circular and self-referential, asI explained in Chap. 10 . Autogynephilia is a sexual orientation, and men are willing to risk a great deal to express their sexual orientations and attempt to unite themselves with the persons or things they love, lust after, admire, and regard as beautiful.The concept of autogynephilic transsexualism can also help clinicians account for the elevated prevalence of other paraphilias in nonhomosexual MtF transsexuals. If one theorizes that these transsexuals have something resembling women’s brains in their male bodies, the prevalence of their coexisting paraphilias makes no sense: With the exception of sexual masochism, paraphilias are almost nonexistent in women. But if one theorizes that these transsexuals are, in fact, men with a paraphilic sexual orientation that makes them want to become women, the prevalence of their coexisting paraphilias makes perfect sense. As a few informants observed, co-occurring paraphilias may in some cases be even more powerful and consequential than autogynephilia itself; clinicians who work with autogynephilic transsexual clients should keep this possibility in mind.Because men’s sexual orientations are believed to be essentially unchangeable in adulthood, clinicians may be puzzled by the tendency of many formerly heterosexual MtF transsexuals to fantasize about engaging in sex with men or, more rarely, to actually do so. The explanation of this phenomenon becomes obvious if clinicians understand that autogynephilic transsexuals may be sexually aroused by the prospect of enacting the traditional female sexual role in relation to male partners, even though they are not sexually attracted to men’s bodies. Autogynephilic transsexuals do not experience a genuine change in their sexual orientations: Their fantasies and behaviors involving male partners are simply manifestations of their autogynephilic sexual orientations.Moreover, because sexual orientations appear to be immutable in adult men, the autogynephilic sexual orientations of these transsexuals almost certainly cannot be changed, any more than the sexual orientations of ordinary heterosexual or homosexual men can be changed. In my opinion, clinicians should clearly advise their gender dysphoric autogynephilic patients that their condition is not curable: They will be dealing with their autogynephilic feelings, in one form or another, as long as they live. Fortunately, the severe gender dysphoria associated with autogynephilic transsexualism is manageable—and sex reassignment is often a good way of managing it.The concept of autogynephilic transsexualism can also help clinicians understand the value and potential limitations of feminizing hormone therapy. Cross-sex hormones can help autogynephilic transsexuals more closely approximate the female appearance they desire and can also help control ego-dystonic autogynephilic arousal, which many autogynephilic transsexuals experience. For this reason, most severely gender dysphoric autogynephilic patients are very satis fi ed with feminizing hormone therapy. However, hormone therapy reduces testosterone levels and thereby reduces the intensity of autogynephilic erotic feelings; this can cause some gender dysphoric autogynephilic men to lose their motivation to continue using hormones. The deciding factors in an individual patient may be intensity of gender dysphoria and strength of cross-gender identity; both of these are outgrowths of autogynephilia, but cross-gender identity usually takes time and experience to consolidate. Patients with more intense gender dysphoria and stronger, better established cross-gender identities usually welcome both the feminization and libido reduction associated with hormone therapy. Patients with less intense gender dysphoria or less well established cross-gender identities often seem to do better on lower doses of hormones, which produce some feminization but are less likely to completely eliminate the autogynephilic erotic feelings that drive the patients’desire for feminization.Can Autogynephilic Transsexualism Ever Feel Less Shameful?Even though I have been one of the most outspoken advocates for Blanchard’s theory of autogynephilic transsexualism, I have never been able to get over my shame about being an autogynephilic transsexual. I regard Blanchard’s theory as brilliantCan Autogynephilic Transsexualism Ever Feel Less Shameful?and revelatory. As a clinician and researcher, I appreciate its descriptive, predictive, and heuristic value. I could never have completed sex reassignment without the insight it provided me, and for that I’m very grateful. But I’m not delighted by what the theory tells me about myself, and I doubt that I ever will be. I still feel deeply ashamed: not just about being a transsexual, which feels shameful enough, but about being an autogynephilic transsexual, which feels more shameful still. Sometimes I can put aside my shame for days or weeks, but it always returns, and it always feels agonizing when it does.Why does the realization that one is a paraphilic man with an erotic motivation for wanting to become a woman feel so shameful? This is the rhetorical question that Meana ( 2008 ) so innocently but subversively posed: Why is being a “woman trapped inside a man’s body” any more respectable than being a man who loves womanhood so much he yearns to become the object of his own desire?Why is an erotic motivation any less worthy than an identity performative one? (p. 470) I think the answer is obvious: The theory of autogynephilic transsexualism forces us to confront the fact that both our essential natures and our motives seem to directly contradict our desired ends. We autogynephilic transsexuals want to be women; but the theory tells us that we are not women and that we don’t even resemble women—not in the least. We would like to believe that our desire to be women springs from our need to express some internal feminine essence; but the theory tells us that we have no internal feminine essence and that our desire to be women actually springs from our paraphilic male sexuality. Many of us—I’m a rare exception—want to be recognizably “normal” women with respect to our sexual orientations, which implies sexual attraction to men; but the theory tells us that we are not really sexually attracted to men and never can be—that any attraction to men we seem to feel is illusory and merely another paraphilic fantasy. All of this is in addition to the shame we would inevitably feel even if we accepted some other theory of MtFtranssexualism (such as the feminine essence theory; see Blanchard, 2008 ) —shameabout our masculinized bodies, our life histories as men, and our inability to experience so many aspects of normal womanhood.When we autogynephilic transsexuals become aware of the theory of autogynephilic transsexualism and recognize that it describes us, we have several options for attempting to manage our inevitable shame. We can try to face our shame directly, by acknowledging our sadness and our constant vulnerability to humiliation and despair and by pushing our feelings out of consciousness when they threaten to become overwhelming; this is the strategy I’ve tried to adopt. Or we can embrace one or more explanatory beliefs that acknowledge the fact of our autogynephilic arousal but deny its meaning and signi fi cance: for example, that autogynephilic arousal is an effect rather than a cause of our cross-gender wishes, is an epiphenomenon, or is a manifestation of normal female sexuality. Or we can simply engage in denial—the most primitive and most effective defense mechanism of all—by convincing ourselves that the theory must be invalid because it is so offensive to our sensibilities: Following the example of Winters ( 2008 ) , we can reject the theory because it promotes “stigmatizing and dehumanizing false stereotypes” (para. 7)and is “an affront to human legitimacy and dignity” (para. 10). We can even go farther still and set about the emotionally satisfying business of trying to destroy anyone who dares to speak or write in favor of the theory, which manifests as narcis-sistic rage (Lawrence, 2008 ; see also Dreger, 2008 ) . None of these strategies works terribly well, and some of them cause great harm to other people, but all of them are perfectly understandable responses to our overwhelming shame.Would there be any way to make autogynephilic transsexualism feel less shameful, or at least make the shame of it easier to bear? I have a few suggestions: First, it might be bene fi cial if more personal narratives by self-described autogynephilic transsexuals were to become available. Knowing that one is not alone can potentially reduce shame, or at least make it easier to deal with. This book is a modest step in that direction. Second, it might be helpful if a few charismatic, appealing, or eminent MtF transsexuals were to come out as unapologetically autogynephilic and act as role models for the rest of us. Someone of the stature of Kate Bornstein would be perfect in such a capacity, although I have no idea whether Bornstein identi fi es as autogynephilic. I will say more about unapologetic autogynephilic transsexualism later in this chapter. Third, it might be useful if autogynephilic transsexuals were to create peer support groups—ideally in the real world, but perhaps fi rst in the virtual world—in which autogynephilic persons could share their experiences.Fourth, publication of educational and self-help resources for autogynephilic children and adolescents and their parents would probably be extremely valuable; I will say more about this later in the chapter. Finally, I believe it would be bene fi cial if those of us who accept the theory of autogynephilic transsexualism were to more consistently describe autogynephilia as a sexual orientation. This would make it easier to talk about autogynephilic transsexualism in a way that might feel less shameful and that others might fi nd more acceptable or recognizable.Presenting Autogynephilia as a Sexual OrientationExplaining autogynephilic transsexualism as a paraphilic phenomenon is factually correct, but this approach is not likely to be easily understandable or especially palat-able to most audiences. The concept of paraphilia will be unfamiliar to many people and will sound vaguely psychopathological to many others; once it has been explained, associations with illegal paraphilias will probably be unavoidable. Attempting to explain autogynephilic transsexualism using the trope of “women trapped in men’s bodies” is an even worse approach: Not only is the explanation inaccurate—autogynephilic transsexuals do not closely resemble women—but the trope is probably not genuinely comprehensible to most people, even though it enjoys some cultural currency. People may recognize the words “woman trapped in a man’s body,” but they arguably can’t really grasp the concept; I know I can’t really grasp it.Almost all adults in Western countries, however, recognize the concept of sexual orientation , and many know some basic facts: Sexual orientations exist in more than one variety. Sexual orientations are not chosen and are not modi fi able—at least notAm I Really a Transsexual? Or Just a Transvestite?in men. Sexual orientations determine who (or what) we lust after, but also who (or what) we love and want to unite with in long-term relationships (hence the concept of gay marriage, which is generally comprehensible, if not yet generally accepted). Moreover, it is widely understood that people naturally feel strong desires to express their sexual orientations—to act on them.Autogynephilia has long been conceptualized as a sexual orientation (e.g., Blanchard, 1989a, 1993a), but its advocates, myself among them, have notsuf fi ciently emphasized this point. We should arguably use every opportunity to do so. Autogynephilia, we should explain, is another variety of sexual orientation: It is an unusual variant form of heterosexuality. Like other sexual orientations, it is something we autogynephilic transsexuals did not choose and something we cannot change. It certainly determines what we lust after, but it also determines what we love and want to unite with. And we autogynephilic transsexuals understandably feel strong pressure to express and act on our autogynephilic sexual orientations.Could an explanatory model emphasizing sexual orientation really lead to better understanding and greater acceptance of autogynephilic transsexualism? I believe we should attempt to fi nd out.Am I Really a Transsexual? Or Just a Transvestite?The question autogynephilic clients in my practice most often want to have answered, whether they express it directly or indirectly, is: “Am I really a transsexual? Or am I just a transvestite?” Usually they hope that receiving a diagnosis could help them decide how to manage their gender dysphoria. In most cases, they have been thinking for some time about undergoing sex reassignment and living as women, but the prospect is daunting, and they remain hesitant. Often they believe that an authoritative diagnosis might decide the issue for them—not an unreasonable idea, given the established principle of Western medicine that diagnosis informs and sometimes dictates treatment. Usually their reasoning goes something like this: “If I’m really a transsexual, then I could—or should, or must—undergo sex reassignment. But if I’m really just a transvestite, then I shouldn’t—it wouldn’t be appropriate. If I’m just a transvestite, I should try to suppress or otherwise manage my desire to live as a woman.” These clients hope that by receiving a diagnosis, they can avoid having to make this dif fi cult decision themselves: The clinician will, in effect, make the decision for them.I usually try to convey two messages to such clients, neither of which they are typically pleased to receive. First, it is often very dif fi cult, if not impossible, to draw a clear dividing line between transsexualism and less severe forms of gender dysphoria. Usually it is more useful to try to characterize the nature and severity of the gender problem than to try to decide whether a client is transsexual or not transsexual, except in the most obvious cases. Second, even if one were to make a diagnosis of transsexualism, this would not necessarily dictate a particular treatment plan. Some clearly transsexual, severely gender dysphoric autogynephilic mendecide not to undergo sex reassignment and are con fi dent that their decisions are correct, given their particular circumstances. Some less clearly transsexual, less severely gender dysphoric autogynephilic men decide to undergo sex reassignment and are very satis fi ed with their decisions. Autogynephilic gender dysphoric men must confront and answer the existential question: How do I want to live, given that I have an unchangeable paraphilic sexual orientation? Experienced clinicians can help clients reach their decisions, but ultimately the clients themselves must decide.Often the decision is a very dif fi cult one, in part because none of the available options are genuinely satisfactory.The Existential Dilemma of the GenderDysphoric AutogynephileConsider the plight of the man who experiences anatomic autogynephilia and severe gender dysphoria. Since early childhood, he has secretly wished to be a female. He is erotically aroused by women and is also erotically aroused by the idea of being a woman himself. In both cases, however, his feelings go far beyond simple erotic arousal: He admires women, fi nds them beautiful, adores their bodies, and habitually falls in love with them. He also envies them and wants to have—wants to embody —all the admirable, beautiful features he loves in them. He wants to live in a body like theirs and lead a life like theirs.At the same time, he knows that he is not naturally feminine. When he considers the adjectives that describe the women he habitually falls in love with—agreeable, af fi liative, cooperative, empathetic, gentle, graceful, nurturant, pliant, tactful, tender—he realizes that most of these adjectives do not describe him. He tends to be competitive, dominant, independent, linear, logical, and tough-minded. He might wish he were more feminine, but his personality is not naturally feminine. When he is honest with himself, he also realizes that he never falls in love with men and only feels attracted to men when he is in the midst of an autogynephilic reverie. He has cross-dressed for years and still does at times, but he fi nds that it offers him limited satisfaction: Even wearing sexy women’s attire, he still inhabits his unwanted male body and still has his ugly, embarrassing male genitalia. Falling in love with a woman or having sex with a woman sometimes makes his autogynephilic desires go into remission for a time, but these remissions are always temporary: His autogynephilic feelings always return. And every time he has an orgasm, he is reminded of two facts: Having a woman’s body is the most erotic thing he can imagine—and he doesn’t have one.His circumstances force him to consider the existential question: Could he live a happier, more meaningful, more rewarding life as a woman—as a transsexual woman? Or would he be better off continuing to live as a man? This is a genuine dilemma, because neither option is really satisfactory. Continuing to live as a man would be the easier, less expensive, and safer option: That way he could keep his job, his reputation, his friends, and perhaps his marriage, if he has one.The Value of Devaluing AutogynephiliaContinuing to live as a man wouldn’t kill him; he has, after all, done it for years. He could continue to live a life of quiet desperation. But he would still experience significant and often severe gender dysphoria, perhaps every day of his life.Eventually he would become an old man who had never tried to live his dream. He knows that what older adults invariably regret is not what they have done but what they failed to do when they had the opportunity. The thought of wasting the only life he will ever have is sad and frightening.Alternatively, he could pursue sex reassignment. That way, he could at least tell himself that he had tried to live his dream. And, if he were to succeed in some measure, how great would that be? How many people can say that they achieved, in some measure, what they wanted most? If he successfully transitioned, he would fi nally be playing on the right team, the women’s team; and those awful male genitalia would be gone forever. But he also knows that he would never have a normal life as a woman: He would always be an oddity, albeit perhaps a fascinating or even admirable oddity. And he could easily lose any of the things that currently make his life comfortable and safe: his job, his reputation, his friends, his family. Moreover, the kind of womanhood he could achieve would inevitably be shoddy and inadequate: He would never be able to completely erase the masculinizing effects of testosterone on his body and brain, nor the masculinizing effects of decades of living in society as a man. For an autogynephilic gender dysphoric man to be willing to try to rebuild his life around his paraphilia by pursuing sex reassignment, despite the genuine risks and inevitable limitations involved, he usually needs to be both very brave and very desperate.The Value of Devaluing AutogynephiliaProbably it is also easier for an autogynephilic gender dysphoric man to pursue sex reassignment if he doesn’t believe in the concept of autogynephilia—or, more accurately, if he holds one or more explanatory beliefs that make his autogynephilic arousal or the autogynephilic underpinnings of his wish for sex reassignment seem more conventional or acceptable. These beliefs function to reassure him and others that his autogynephilic erotic desire to have a woman’s body isn’t the whole story—and isn’t even an important part of the story. What kinds of explanatory beliefs might be reassuring in this way?One such belief would be that he really has a “woman’s brain” in his male body.Another would be that autogynephilia is not a paraphilia at all but merely a normal element of female sexuality. Yet another would be that he really had been destined to be attracted to men all along, but that his natural inclinations were suppressed by social conditioning and homophobia. Still another would be that the cross-gender fantasies that he found so exciting earlier in life no longer hold any erotic interest for him, but were merely a temporary mechanism for coping with his gender dysphoria. A fi nal such belief would be that autogynephilia is merely an effect of his cross-gender identi fi cation, not the cause of that identi fi cation.Personally, I consider such explanatory beliefs to be implausible at best, but I understand their appeal. I remember looking carefully at an MRI scan of my own brain in 1995, hoping to fi nd a feature I could declare to be female-typical—at that time, the splenium of the corpus callosum was still a focus of interest (see Emory, Williams, Cole, Amparo, & Meyer, 1991 ) —and therefore use to justify my desire for sex reassignment. I also remember with chagrin a few weeks during which I tried to convince my therapist and myself that I was actually sexually attracted to men. Explanatory beliefs of this kind function to justify or excuse the autogynephilic erotic desire that both animates and seems to discredit our wish to be women.These explanations make us seem to more closely resemble the “classic” MtF transsexual stereotype: feminine from earliest childhood, never sexually aroused by women’s apparel, and romantically inclined toward men. If we embrace these explanatory beliefs, we can say to ourselves and others, “It may be true that I have experienced autogynephilic erotic arousal, but I have other characteristics that make me a recognizable and somewhat more acceptable kind of MtF transsexual: I have a woman’s brain/only get aroused the same way natal women do/was meant to be attracted to men/no longer experience (much) autogynephilic arousal/had a cross-gender identity that preceded my autogynephilic arousal.” In my clinical practice, I rarely see an autogynephilic gender dysphoric man—whether he identi fi es as autogynephilic or not—who has decided to pursue SRS and doesn’t hold one or more explanatory beliefs of this kind. As the narratives in Chap. 10 demonstrate, evenMtF transsexuals who clearly recognize themselves to be autogynephilic often hold these beliefs.I’m not ordinarily an advocate for self-deception, but if explanatory beliefs like these make it easier for autogynephilic men who are good candidates for sex reassignment to move forward, I’m willing to condone them. Sex reassignment is often a very effective treatment for severe, persistent gender dysphoria in autogynephilic men. Hormone therapy and SRS usually signi fi cantly reduce gender dysphoria; satisfaction following MtF sex reassignment is high and regrets are rare (Gijs &Brewaeys,; Lawrence,; Muirhead-Allwood et al.,1999 ) . But manyautogynephilic gender dysphoric men who would probably bene fi t from sex reassignment decide not to pursue it because they fear that their autogynephilic feelings disqualify them. If implausible explanatory beliefs make it easier for these transsexuals to justify sex reassignment to themselves or others, I’m not inclined to argue too strenuously.Unapologetic Autogynephilic Transsexualism?But what about autogynephilic gender dysphoric men who see themselves more clearly and can’t deceive themselves so easily—who know that they are men with a powerful paraphilic wish to become women and cannot pretend otherwise? They are in a more dif fi cult position: They not only have to grapple with their own shameUnapologetic Autogynephilic Transsexualism?and sadness about being paraphilic men, but they also have to face the potential disapproval of others without being able to pretend to be different than they truly are. It is still not entirely respectable, even in “transgender friendly” settings, to appear to deviate too far from being a classic MtF transsexual. Although I’m not aware of any formal surveys, I suspect that neither the transgender community nor its professional caregivers, much less the general public, would be completely comfortable with the idea of avowedly, unapologetically paraphilic men undergoing sex reassignment and living as women. Thirty or 40 years ago, mental health professionals who specialized in treating gender identity problems used to argue that paraphilic men—autogynephiles—who sought sex reassignment were not acceptable candidates because they were not genuinely transsexual. Nowadays, their suc-cessors seemingly want to argue that paraphilic men—autogynephiles—who seek sex reassignment have become acceptable candidates because they are not genuinely paraphilic! Perhaps this is a measure of progress, but the message remains the same: We do not willingly offer sex reassignment to mere paraphilic men.Some autogynephilic gender dysphoric men, however, cannot deny the uncomfortable truth that our very best gender specialists seem to insist on denying—that they are, without a doubt, paraphilic men. But autogynephilic gender dysphoric men would have to be very brave to pursue sex reassignment while saying openly, without apology: “We are not women trapped in men’s bodies, nor do we bear any close resemblance to women. We are nothing more or less than men who experience a paraphilic desire to become women. Nevertheless, we are committed to becoming the best possible facsimiles of the women we love and admire, despite the fact that we have the minds and bodies of men. We believe that this path offers us our best hope of overcoming our gender dysphoria and achieving the bodies and social roles in which we can live satisfying, ful fi lling lives.”Call me a romantic, but I think this kind of unapologetic autogynephilic transsexualism sounds both courageous and admirable; I hope that it eventually becomes more prevalent. It seems to me entirely consistent with what Person ( 1999 ) identi fi ed as one of the important trends in contemporary Western societies that serve to legiti-mize what she called “the shared cultural fantasy of transsexualism” (p. 363). Person called this phenomenon:Self-Realization as a Cultural Ideal. Once upon a time, an individual accepted certain external realities as unalterable. These realities determined his place in society. As historical changes, both technological and social, accelerated, the individual began to believe more in the alterability of his circumstances and ultimately of his person. The question was not whether to adjust to or rebel against reality but how to discriminate between those realities that needed to be recognized as unalterable and those one might change. We now assume that little of external reality is unalterable, an assumption derived in part from our increasingly astonishing scienti fi c advances. (p. 364)If the existence and meaning of autogynephilic transsexualism were to become more widely recognized and better understood, then this kind of unapologetic autogynephilic transsexualism might eventually become commonplace. I believe that this would be a very good thing.Solutions Short of Complete Sex ReassignmentThere are several different types of autogynephilia, as described in Chap. 6 , but thesetypes usually tend to co-occur: For example, most men who experience anatomic autogynephilia also experience transvestic and behavioral autogynephilia. Moreover, individuals who experience the anatomic form of autogynephilia usually desire to possess all the elements of female anatomy, not just one or two of them. In some cases, however, individuals with anatomic autogynephilia experience little transvestic or behavioral autogynephilia: They are aroused by the idea of having a female body but not by the idea of dressing or behaving like women. And some are aroused by the idea of having women’s breasts or a vulva but are indifferent to having other female anatomic features. Blanchard ( 1993b ) called this latter phenomenon partial autogyne-philia; narratives by informants who experienced it were included in Chap. 11 .Moreover, even men who experience anatomic autogynephilia accompanied by behavioral and transvestic autogynephilia sometimes conclude that undertaking complete sex reassignment and living as women would be impossible or impractical. Some of these men have physical characteristics, such as extreme height, that would not only make it impossible for them to move easily through the world as women—even openly transsexual women—but would not allow them to meet their own minimal standards for an acceptable female appearance. Others have familial or social responsibilities that they would be unable to satisfy if they underwent complete sex reassignment and lived as women. Some of these men nevertheless suffer from severe gender dysphoria and believe that making their bodies more closely resemble women’s bodies would ameliorate it.Autogynephilic men who want to have women’s breasts but do not want to live in a female-typical gender role usually have no dif fi culty obtaining what they desire.The current Standards of Care (WPATH, 2011 ) make it easy for individuals to qualify for and receive feminizing hormone therapy and surgical breast augmentation, even if they continue to live as men. But autogynephilic gender dysphoric men who want to undergo SRS but do not want to live in a female-typical gender role usually have a harder time qualifying for what they desire under the Standards of Care, which specify that having “lived continuously for at least 12 months in the gender role that is congruent with [one’s] gender identity” (WPATH, 2011 , p. 21) is an eli-gibility requirement for SRS. The vagueness of the language—what does it mean to live in a gender role that is congruent with one’s gender identity if one identi fi es as a man but desires to have a woman’s genitals?—potentially allows for some fl exibility, of course. But, in the absence of a more explicit imprimatur, I doubt that most clinicians would be comfortable recommending SRS for autogynephilic men who want to live as men or feel that they have no choice but to do so. Some narratives in Chap.6 demonstrate that it is possible to obtain SRS even if one has spent little or no time living in something resembling a female-typical gender role. Nevertheless, there is no unambiguous language in the Standards of Care that explicitly uncouples eligibility for SRS from the obligation to enact any particular gender role.For most autogynephilic men, living in a female-typical gender role is the most dif fi cult and daunting aspect of the sex reassignment process and is, in my clinicalBetter Treatment for Severely Gender Dysphoric Autogynephiles?experience, the one most likely to be associated with severe social or economic losses. If some autogynephilic gender dysphoric men would be content to undergo SRS without living in a female-typical gender role—or were to conclude that this would offer the best compromise between managing their gender dysphoria on the one hand and dealing with the external reality demands imposed by their unsuitable male bodies, their obligations to their families, or their need to earn a living on the other—then I believe they should be allowed and even encouraged to do so, assuming they had been carefully evaluated and were able to give informed consent.Needless to say, this solution is not what most autogynephilic gender dysphoric men really want; it would appeal to only a minority of individuals. But it would arguably do much to help relieve the gender dysphoria of men who experience severe anatomic autogynephilia but are unwilling or unable to live as women. I hope that the Standards of Care will eventually be modi fi ed to state explicitly that individuals can qualify for SRS without changing their gender role or gender presentation. If the autogynephilic motivation behind many requests for SRS were more widely recognized, such an outcome might occur more quickly.Better Treatment for Severely Gender DysphoricAutogynephiles?We autogynephilic transsexuals would probably undertake sex reassignment more readily, and surely with greater success, if treatments to help us achieve facsimiles of female bodies were not so mediocre. The inadequacies of existing treatments result from the fact that exposure of our bodies to high levels of testosterone during puberty produces irreversible physical masculinization, primarily involving the bony skele-ton but also other anatomic features. Exposure to testosterone results in the development of male-typical facial and body hair, greater muscularity, increased height, increased size of the shoulders, hands, feet, jaw, and parts of the skull (especially the supraorbital ridge), male-pattern scalp hair loss, deepening of the voice and enlargement of the laryngeal cartilage (Adam’s apple), failure to develop a female-typical pelvic shape, and a variety of more subtle changes affecting body habitus. All of these effects of testosterone combine to create an impression of physical maleness.It is a little-recognized fact that gender attribution is based primarily on the presence or absence of male-typical anatomic characteristics. To decide whether a person is male or female, we look for signs of masculinization, which are almost always signs of exposure to testosterone. If we observe several signs of masculinization—occasionally one sign is enough—we make a male gender attribution. If we observe few or no signs of masculinization, we make a female gender attribution. Signs of femaleness don’t matter much; signs of maleness are what matter. Kessler and McKenna ( 1978 ) explained:In order for a female gender attribution to be made, there must be an absence of anything which can be construed as a “male only” characteristic. In order for a male gender attribution to be made, the presence of at least one “male” sign must be noticed, and one sign may be enough, especially if it is a penis. It is rare to see a person that one thinks is a manand then wonder if one has made a “mistake.” However, it is not uncommon to wonder if someone is “really” a woman. The relative ease with which female-to-male transsexuals“pass” as compared to male-to-female transsexuals underscores this point. It is symbolized by the male-to-female transsexual needing to cover or remove her facial hair in order to be seen as a woman and the female-to-male transsexual having the option of growing a beard or being clean shaven. The female may not have any “male” signs. (pp. 158–159).Consequently, if we MtF transsexuals want to make our bodies appear more like women’s bodies, most of our efforts must be directed toward erasing the signs of masculinization caused by testosterone exposure during puberty.Unfortunately, it is impossible to completely erase the masculinizing effects of testosterone, and achieving even partial erasure is very expensive and time-consuming.We MtF transsexuals often spend tens of thousands—occasionally hundreds of thousands—of dollars for facial and body hair removal and for reshaping of our hairlines, foreheads, noses, jaws, laryngeal cartilages, and even our vocal cords. All of this is in addition to the expense of SRS. But there is little we can do about our height, our broad shoulders, our narrow pelvises, and our outsized hands and feet.Even our best attempts at reversing pubertal masculinization are inadequate.In the past two decades, treatment to prevent irreversible masculinization by testosterone has been offered to a few gender dysphoric adolescent boys, mostly those whose gender dysphoria was initially diagnosed in childhood and had persisted into adolescence. This treatment involves the administration of injectable hormones called gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonists (GnRH agonists), which prevent the pituitary gland from releasing the hormones (gonadotropins) that stimulate the testes to produce testosterone. GnRH agonists have also been offered to gender dysphoric adolescent girls with similar histories, but this discussion will emphasize the treatment of gender dysphoric boys. Treatment of selected gender dysphoric adolescents with GnRH agonists was pioneered in the Netherlands in the mid-1990s, largely due to the efforts of Dr. Peggy Cohen-Kettenis. Eligibility criteria, treatment protocols, and outcomes of treatment have been described in several recent publications (e.g., de Vries et al., 2011 ; Hembree et al., 2009 ; Kreukels & Cohen-Kettenis,2011 ; Zucker et al., 2011 ) .Treatment with GnRH agonists blocks or delays the physical changes of puberty.The goal of treatment is to buy time for consideration of further treatment options.If the patient’s gender dysphoria continues and the patient wants to undergo MtF sex reassignment in young adulthood, feminizing hormones can be administered and female-typical pubertal development will occur. This results in a young MtF transsexual whose appearance is female-typical, with minimal or no male secondary sex characteristics. If the patient’s gender dysphoria desists and the patient wants to live as a member of his birth sex, GnRH agonists can be withdrawn and a male-typical puberty will result; but no patients treated in the Netherlands have ever chosen this option (de Vries et al., 2011 ) .In the Netherlands, where clinical experience with puberty-blocking hormones is greatest, treatment is currently offered only to children in whom there has been“presence of gender dysphoria from early childhood on” (Cohen-Kettenis, Delemarre-van de Waal, & Gooren, 2008 , p. 1894) or “persistent gender dysphoriaPuberty-Blocking Hormones for Autogynephilic Gender Dysphoric Adolescents?since childhood” (de Vries et al., 2011 , p. 2277). A few years earlier, Cohen-Kettenis and Pfäf fl in ( 2003 ) had further advocated that puberty suppressing treatment be limited to adolescents who “throughout childhood … had demonstrated an intense pattern of cross-gender behavior and identity” (p. 145). These requirements—particularly the requirement of intense cross-gender behavior throughout childhood—imply that few, if any, autogynephilic gender dysphoric adolescents would be eligible for puberty-blocking hormones, based on the Dutch criteria. In fact, almost all of the adolescent boys who have recently received puberty-blocking hormones in the Netherlands have been homosexual (de Vries et al., 2011 ) and thus presumably not autogynephilic.Recently, Zucker et al. ( 2011 ) reported the Toronto experience in evaluating adolescents with GID for a recommendation for puberty-blocking hormones. Zucker et al. observed thatone criterion used by the Dutch group is a history of gender dysphoria from early childhood on. Yet in clinics such as ours, we see some adolescents with GID who show little or absolutely no evidence of GID in early childhood. … The gender dysphoria appears to emerge, at least in the eyes of signi fi cant others (e.g., parents, therapists who have known the patient since childhood) only after the onset of puberty. It is not clear if this late-onset group should be deemed ineligible for early [puberty-blocking] hormonal therapy. (p. 63) The Toronto group was, in fact, willing to recommend puberty-blocking hormones for some adolescent boys with adolescent-onset GID and a nonhomosexual orientation (K. J. Zucker, personal communication, May 23, 2012). It appears, then, that autogynephilic gender dysphoric adolescents might in some cases be eligible for treatment under the Toronto criteria (which unfortunately were never explicitly set forth), although Zucker et al. noted that a favorable recommendation was more likely“when parent-report indicated more concurrent cross-gender behavior, [and] when patients … recalled more cross-gender behavior in childhood” (p. 71). It is notable, however, that the Toronto patients were evaluated at a mean age of about 17, which is quite late. The adolescent boys in the Netherlands, in contrast, were evaluated at a mean age of about 13 and began treatment at a mean age of about 14. It is possible that autogynephilic gender dysphoric adolescents experience a significantintensi fi cation of gender dysphoria and a consolidation of cross-gender identi fi cation between the ages of 13 and 17, which would make them appear to be more suitable candidates for treatment at age 17 than they would have appeared at age 13.Puberty-Blocking Hormones for AutogynephilicGender Dysphoric Adolescents?Could autogynephilic adolescents ever obtain approval for and receive the puberty-blocking hormones that would make their lives so much easier if they eventually decided to transition and live as women? Could they obtain approval early enough to make a real difference—at age 13, rather than at age 17? I would like to hope that the answers would be yes, but I’m far from certain.What would be necessary for an autogynephilic gender dysphoric adolescent to be approved for and receive puberty-blocking hormones? I can think of three obvious preconditions. First, the adolescent would have to come to clinical attention in early puberty. Ideally this would be facilitated by perceptive, well informed parents who would notice and understand the meaning of their son’s cross-dressing—including the absence of any other signs of overt femininity—and arrange for a clinical evaluation in a non-shaming, non-stigmatizing way. Realistically, however, the adolescent himself would probably need to develop some understanding of his problem and overcome his shame and confusion suf fi ciently to seek clinical attention on his own. At present, neither of these possibilities could be expected to happen very often, given the complete absence of educational and self-help materials for autogynephilic children and adolescents and their parents. On a more positive note, fi nding a knowledgeable professional to conduct such an evaluation would be much easier than it used to be, at least in major urban areas.Second, the adolescent would need to display suf fi ciently intense gender dysphoria. He might also need to report a credible history of signi fi cant gender dysphoria or overt cross-gender behavior in early childhood, depending on the criteria used in the evaluation. Intense current gender dysphoria presumably would not usually be an issue; the fact of the referral would imply this. Documentation of signi fi cant gender dysphoria or overt cross-gender behavior in early childhood might be more problematic; often these will not have been present. Consequently, a typical autogynephilic gender dysphoric adolescent probably would have a better chance of being approved under the Toronto criteria (whatever they turn out to be) than under the Dutch criteria.Finally, the adolescent would have to agree to undergo—and continue to undergo— treatment with puberty-blocking hormones. In some ways, this might be the biggest obstacle of all. Even intensely gender dysphoric autogynephilic adolescents would probably feel some ambivalence about the prospect of future gender transition, which might preclude or at least render more problematic many of the male-typical behaviors and activities they genuinely enjoy, including heterosexual contact. Some of these adolescents might even hold out hope that their autogynephilic orientation might be curable, which would allow them to live as normal men—a vain hope, I believe, but an understandable one.Moreover, puberty-blocking hormones would inevitably decrease whatever level of testosterone was already present during early puberty, reducing gender dysphoria but perhaps also reducing much of the adolescent’s desire to continue treatment.Recall that some informants in Chap. 9 reported that they lost the desire to continue feminizing hormone therapy after losing their sex drive as a result of testosterone reduction. Of course, many adult autogynephilic transsexuals who begin feminizing hormone therapy do continue treatment, even after complete loss of their sex drives; but these transsexuals have probably developed strong, persistent cross-gender identities that provide an ongoing impetus to gender transition. Docter’s ( 1988 ) research suggests that such cross-gender identities take years if not decades to develop. Could autogynephilic adolescents develop strong and persistentInvestigating the Developmental History of Autogynephilic Gender Dysphoria cross-gender identities more quickly, given the right circumstances—if, for example, they were given the opportunity to cross-dress freely and openly in a supportive, protective home environment? At present, one can only speculate about this possibility.I’ll brie fl y share my own experience: I was intensely gender dysphoric at age (this was in 1965), so much so that I overcame my shame and told my parents about my desire to be a girl. I underwent psychiatric evaluation but was offered no real help. At age 16, I began trying to obtain feminizing hormones on my own. I fi nally succeeded at age 18—too late to prevent male puberty. If I had been offered puberty-blocking hormones at age 14, I might well have started treatment; but would I have continued? Perhaps, if I had had the knowledge and experience I have now; but quite possibly not, given how little knowledge and experience I had then. In 1965, at age 14, I had too much ignorance, too much shame—and too little experience in cross-gender presentation to have developed a strong, persistent cross-gender identity. I imagine that many intensely gender dysphoric autogynephilic 14-year-olds are in much the same position today, despite the passage of nearly 50 years.Investigating the Developmental History of AutogynephilicGender DysphoriaAlthough sex reassignment is no panacea, it is arguably the treatment of choice for some intensely gender dysphoric autogynephilic adults. If these individuals could be identi fi ed before puberty, helped to understand their autogynephilic feelings, and encouraged to take the steps that might make them eligible for puberty-blocking hormones, their adult outcomes might be signi fi cantly improved. Whether such improved outcomes would occur is, of course, unknown. Conducting investigations that could help decide the issue would not be easy; investigators would need to address many challenging practical and ethical issues. Before such investigations could even be considered, however, it would be important to know much more than is currently known about the natural developmental history of autogynephilic gender dysphoria in childhood and adolescence.According to retrospective self-reports, some boys who later become gender dysphoric autogynephilic men remember wanting to be girls or cross-dressing duringearly childhood; this was described by several informants in Chap. 5 . Sometimes these cross-gender wishes and behaviors were recalled as having been explicitly erotic, sometimes not. Often these feelings and behaviors were never revealed to parents or caregivers, however. If there existed contemporaneous parental reports of the cross-gender feelings and behaviors of autogynephilic boys in early childhood or adolescence—and if there existed self-reports written by autogynephilic boys during middle childhood or adolescence—then researchers would be in a much better position to understand the developmental history of autogynephilic gender dysphoria and to design possible investigational treatment protocols involving puberty-blockinghormones. If such parental reports and self-reports were supplemented by observations by mental health professionals who had evaluated these autogynephilic boys, our understanding would be even greater.I believe that the key to accumulating such parental reports, self-reports, and clinical case reports would be the availability of educational and self-help resources for autogynephilic children and adolescents and their parents. These resources could play a crucial role in stimulating and informing the process of data collection. Parents of autogynephilic boys need to know what to look for and how to interpret what they see; they also need to know when to seek professional evaluations for their children.Bright, self-aware autogynephilic boys in middle childhood and adolescence need resources to help them understand what they are feeling and what their feelings mean or might mean; they would also bene fi t from encouragement to write about their feelings and behaviors or document them in audio or video recordings.Unfortunately, I have been unable to locate any useful educational or self-help resources designed for autogynephilic children or adolescents or their parents. I am forced to conclude that such resources probably don’t yet exist. There are, of course, books written for the parents of overtly feminine gender-dysphoric male children and adolescents (e.g., Brill & Pepper, 2008 ; Krieger, 2011 ) and even books that contain advice for overtly feminine adolescent males themselves (e.g., Huegel,2011 ) . These books are sensitively written and probably helpful to many overtly feminine boys and male adolescents and their parents. These books do not, however, address the circumstances and needs of autogynephilic children or adolescents or their parents. These books never discuss the furtive cross-dressing in the absence of pervasive cross-gender behavior that most autogynephilic children and adolescents display, much less the erotic arousal that usually accompanies cross-dressing and cross-gender fantasies in these children and adolescents. Needless to say, the terms autogynephilia and transvestic fetishism appear nowhere in these books.I believe there is a serious unmet need for educational resources that provide honest, forthright explanations of the cross-dressing and cross-gender fantasies that autogynephilic children and adolescents engage in and that explicitly discuss the erotic arousal that accompanies these behaviors and fantasies. I understand that it will not be easy to craft language that sensitively but accurately explains to parents what it might mean if their otherwise masculine 6-year-old son likes to put on his older sister’s panties and gets an erection every time he does so, or that explains to 14-year-old boys what it might mean when they masturbate to fantasies of having bodies like those of the attractive girls in their school or wearing their clothes, rather than (or in addition to) fantasies of caressing those girls’ bodies. But, if someone makes the effort and succeeds in creating such educational resources, autogynephilic children and adolescents and their parents will fi nally have access to information that can help them appreciate the nature and signi fi cance of autogynephilia and understand what can and cannot be done about it. Moreover, such resources could eventually result in the acquisition of a great deal of important data about the natural developmental history of autogynephilia in childhood and adolescence. These data could inform investigations that might eventually give selected autogynephilic adolescents access to treatment that could make their later lives as transsexual women much easier and much more satisfying.Embracing Life as an Autogynephilic Transsexual Woman Embracing Life as an Autogynephilic Transsexual WomanNotwithstanding my earlier description of unapologetic autogynephilic transsexualism as a courageous and admirable stance, I’ve painted a rather grim picture of autogynephilic transsexualism overall. I don’t want to minimize how dif fi cult and painful our condition is. We autogynephilic transsexuals have a paraphilic sexual orientation that affects nearly everything about our lives—and usually not in a good way.Although sex reassignment is often the best solution to our problem and sometimes a life-saving one, it is a mediocre solution at best. Our efforts to create the kinds of bodies we want to live in are painful, expensive, and unsatisfactory. We often suffer terrible losses when we undergo sex reassignment and live as women. Once we have done so, we will never again live normal lives. I invariably tell my patients: Do not undergo sex reassignment if you can fi nd happiness and peace in any other way.If we do decide to undergo sex reassignment, at least we can console ourselves that our lives as transsexual women will probably be easier than those of our prede-cessors. Before the phenomenon of transsexualism became widely recognized, it used to be that autogynephilic gender dysphoric men who underwent sex reassignment either passed as natal women (if they were very somatically gifted) or were regarded as men pretending to be women. Nowadays, it is also possible to pass as a“good” or “sincere” transsexual woman: as someone who is known or suspected to have once lived as a man but who conducts herself as an appropriate and recognizable social woman. Few if any MtF transsexuals pass perfectly as natal women, but passing as a sincere transsexual woman is not a bad alternative and is an increasingly viable one in many urban areas of the USA and other Western countries.When we autogynephilic transsexuals decide to undergo sex reassignment, we make the choice to rebuild our lives around our paraphilia—around the strongest feelings we know. Although this is not an easy path, it does offer some rewards. In one of my favorite “guilty pleasure” fi lms from the 1980s, Heartbreakers (Roth &Weis, 1984 ) , Peter Coyote portrays a photorealist artist who paints “pin-ups”: depic-tions of women in fetish gear, with black leather, garter belts, whips and chains, etc.At fi rst his paintings are not commercially successful, but eventually he fi nds his muse and his works begin to sell. In one scene, he talks about his interest in fetish depiction with a woman friend, explaining with relish, “Ever since I was a little kid I was into it. I found this magazine in my dad’s closet. It was dirty. Forbidden.” His friend scoffs: “That’s not art. It’s fetish.” He replies, somewhat indignantly, “What’s art? Those are the strongest feelings I know. Those are the most powerful images I know. That’s my art.”In our postmodern world, with no God above and no hell below, many of us believe that the only meanings our lives can have are the meanings we create ourselves. Some of us might even start to think about our lives as extended works of performance art: unrehearsed, largely improvised, site-speci fi c, one performance only. If we adopt this perspective, I think it makes sense to do what Peter Coyote’s character did in the fi lm I discussed: build our art—our lives—around the strongest feelings we know and the most powerful images we know. For most of us autogynephilic transsexuals, the strongest feelings we know and the most powerful imageswe know involve ourselves as women. We honor those feelings and images and give them a central place in our lives when we choose to undergo sex reassignment and live as women.It is also possible to think about the transsexual journey as a kind of spiritual path. We autogynephilic transsexuals strive to become womanly in our bodies, but we can also strive to become womanly in our personalities. The feminine personas we create in the process of sex reassignment function as integral elements of the extended works of performance art that are our lives. We create our feminine personas by trying to express and embody the feminine virtues, whatever we think these are. For me, they include gentleness, nurturance, empathy, agreeableness, cooperation, friendliness, and grace. These qualities do not describe how I am naturally, but they describe the way I want to be and try to be; as such, they de fi ne a spiritual path that I attempt to follow. To try to express and embody these feminine virtues in our everyday lives makes us better people—especially if we have spent most of our lives expressing the kind of nerdy masculinity that values things over people, emphasizes competition over cooperation, and sometimes alienates us from our emotions and from other people. The transsexual journey is, in this case, less about fi nding our “true selves” than our best selves. Autogynephilia is a paraphilic sexual orientation, but it is possible to build a satisfying, passionate, spiritually ful fi lling life around it—a life very much worth living.
