  Hard to pin down exactly when I peaked, it was more of a build up and then being sent over. I stayed out of the discussion because I was neutral about it, so I thought. I started seeing the mantra "Trans Women are Women" and a new definition for us all "Cisgender" and that is okay they say because it has roots in Latin, what that has to do with the English language today, which derived a lot of words from Latin, god knows. Oh and the definition of "Woman" is outdated and needs to be updated to include feelings otherwise you're a bioessentialist, bigot and a transphobe!Also reasons you are a bigot and a transphobe:Believing in two Genders/SexesKnowing that differences between male and females exist.Stating that we are a sexually dimorphic species to cries of BUT INTERSEX!!! (Genetic conditions I imagine everyone here is aware)Stating that gender is built on sexist stereotypesStating that women should be entitled to Single-Sex spaces and that how someone "identifies" themselves does not make that the case to other individuals and it should be respected.Stating that biological males should not be allowed to compete in female sports categories due to the natural advantages of being male bodied.I'm a Liberal and usually find myself debating right wing individuals but since the end of last year I have been finding myself debating with transgender activists, I always thought debating RW individuals could get nasty, but to my surprise that is nothing to what you will get from trans activists.Naturally the homophobic nature and the way it impacts women overwhelmingly is a grave concern. Lesbians are frequently called genital fetishists, terfs and transphobic for their homosexual attraction because it does not include trans women, the activists are trying to override our sexual orientation and act as though gender is the source, to not acknowledge that gender supersedes sex tends to lead to receiving abuse.This is coercive behaviour and it is coming from a community that claims to be the most vulnerable, the tactics often employed are manipulative,  based on distortions and outright lies. I do not believe the solution is to bury our heads in the sand and pretend this requires some minor reworking.I guess I would say the main thing is seeing so many people go around and say that they're a man now, while still wearing makeup and stereotypically feminine clothes, or vice versa - put on a dress once in awhile and you're suddenly a woman. I know it doesn't change their biology or give them the experiences of a biological woman, but at least people who undergo surgery and hormones are seemingly making an effort to be taken seriously. Or some creepy old man can join female/WLW groups, post a pic of himself wearing a wig and lipstick, and get praised by everyone. Also all the wasted time in college classes and feminist group meetings having to go around the room and announce one's pronouns. Which apparently change at will for some people. Or seeing men say stupid shit about how their "female penis" is superior to a cis woman's body.This is gonna be a stream of consciousness so please excuse the weird organization.Peak libfem (which led to my actual first peak trans) was my feminist media class this past fall semester. I was super excited beforehand because I thought it would be fun and enlightening because I had never actually studied anything that was titled feminism before (spoiler: I had but didn't recognize it bc it wasn't so grossly libfem and/or preachy). The instructor and TA were both women but the TA gave "they/them" pronouns and went by a single letter for their "name" (let's call her "A"). The instructor just gave us her name and no pronouns. I obviously referred to her as "she" but my classmates were all "oh no, (instructor) didn't say her pronouns, should we ask her??" So I was talking to my friend group about this class near the beginning of the semester and one of my friends had the same exact TA for a different feminist class before. This friend told me how the TA didn't like her because when someone asked where "A" (the TA) was, she replied "A  i-s  t-h-e-r-e" (she spelled it out while pointing) and apparently "A" overheard.Demographics of the class (out of ~90 students): about 5-10 were male, about 10 people were not white (including me), about 5 were older than the average college student (one was a second wave feminist in her youth!). So this created the perfect recipe for the Concerned Non-Critical Thinking Libfem to flourish.Digging through my suppressed memories of this class, I can say with relative certainty that it was mostly focused on blackness and/or queerness, which is not necessarily bad, but just... eh. The readings were very libfemmy and had things like this that weren't corrected or discussed but Laura Mulvey was deemed controversial (likely bc it doesn't adhere to trans ideology).Side note about the image: I can't speak for all women of color but as a black immigrant who's family has kept its culture in America, it is very patriarchal which is not simply due to colonialism! The patriarchy from colonialism is more apparent of FOBs (stands for "fresh off the boat") who try so hard to fit in and are extremely sexist to women from their same culture. I feel like the excerpt (which comes from Karen Hollinger's Feminist Film Studies) is a total cop-out to the sexism that women of color face from men in their culture and instead is removing the blame from those men and onto this far-away figure. I have no doubt that there is some patriarchial attitudes that arose from colonialism but that certainly doesn't explain everything and does a disservice to the women who suffer under that system by apologizing for their abusers.Back to the class. It just had ridiculous readings like the above and was full of libfems pretending to understand all of these wildly different viewpoints. I spoke up once in disagreement to a reading in a small group and all the other members basically couldn't compute what I was saying. From then on, I just zoned out because no one in this class could actually think for themselves.Bonus points:We watched Bound by the Wachkowski Brothers and read an interesting piece that described how an actual lesbian was brought on to consult for the sex scenes so that they wouldn't be completely for the male gaze (it worked for both straight males and lesbians). Someone claimed in a discussion post that because the Wachkowski "sisters" were now trans lesbians that their depiction of lesbians in Bound wasn't necessarily for straight men .We watched an episode of Flavor of Love and Pumkin (a white woman) is in an argument with New York (a black woman). New York says that Pumkin is poor and is on the show because she needs the money for a facelift. Pumkin called New York an ugly transvestite who tucks her dick behind her balls. Cue the horrified gasp of breath from practically everyone in class  Not because they acknowledged that black women aren't seen as feminine enough but because transvestite was used as an insult.A group did their final project on how its unfair that "cis" people played trans characters and got awarded for it . According to them, it isn't fair because it takes away roles for trans actors (whoa, wouldn't it make them dysphoric if they have to play as their actual sex???) and pushes the view that trans people are just crossdressers .TLDR: I took a feminist media class in the hopes to learn more about feminism. I got class of mostly white women who were libfems that weren't critical thinkers and drank the kool-aid on trans ideology. As a result, I became extremely critical of most ideas, especially liberal feminism which caused me to peak trans. So, yay! I guess?read an interesting piece that described how an actual lesbian was brought on to consult for the sex scenes so that they wouldn't be completely for the male gaze (it worked for both straight males and lesbians).The "lesbian" who offered sex-scene consulting for Bound is also the professional dominatrix under whose guidance one of the Wachowski brothers (I forget which one) came to identify as trans. And she's the ex-wife of FtM porn star Buck Angel.Damn, did not know this. Thank you for the info!Hey there. This is a secondary Reddit account, my main is linked too much to my IRL to be able to express how I feel, unfortunately. I am struggling with a few things. One, I am very close to someone with a "famous" transchild, which has become increasingly difficult to be able to deal with. I absolutely love my friend and their family, but I struggle with what is happening and has happened and seemingly "supporting" this stuff by not speaking up. Two..as a lesbian woman reentering the dating scene..what the actual fuck? I can't even go on actual lesbians on Reddit, because it seems everyone on there has a penis. Where are the ACTUAL lesbians?! How do I even begin to sort the dating world to find an actual female?! Anyways, everything I think and feel has already pretty much been covered in this sub, I've been lurking and upvoting for a year now and finally decided to join to both support and seek support from like-minded sisters.r/truelesbians is where the legit, non-penis-having, FEMALE SEX lesbians hang out.It is creepy to hear about your friend and their child. I dont know how people do that to their kids.Ok, I know I've commented here before but just read 'Leading British surgeon calls for transgender women to have life-changing womb transplants so they can have their own children with IVF', it's from the Daily Fail which while not exactly the top tier of all british journalism, still. Just why???Imagine as a woman, you've signed up to organ donation, the most selfless gift a person can give in the event of death and your womb is donated to some deluded man who wants to birth a baby out of his fake 'vagina'. Honestly, stop the world and let me off.I just ignore all the uterus transplant nonsense. Body organs aren't plug and play between men and women. Its the same ridiculousness of how they believe they can turn their bodies female and have periods. None of it is possible. Its just more disrespect and and ignorance that the trans and medical community show towards women's bodies. And if by some ridiculous miracle they could get pregnant and actually see the reality of it, they wouldnt want any part of it bc it will not fit their fantasy. Their whole 'I am a woman' is based of their fantasies.  I recently sent out one of those social media reminders that I've signed up to be an organ donor. After hearing about how many lives are at risk and how many healthy organs go to waste for no good reason I felt as though the least I could do, upon exiting the mortal coil, was to let someone who needed my remains take advantage. Currently as far as everyone I know is concerned, if I were to pop my clogs right this second I'd be happy for people to help themselves to whatever they need, as it were.And I never ever thought I'd reconsider that choice. However upon reading that article, and entertaining the idea of my corpse being raided in order to fulfil a potentially dangerous delusion, I'm seriously considering "revoking" my donor card. Or at the very least adding a disclaimer that my reproductive organs are exempted from donation, but that would surely out me as an "evil TERF who wants to invalidate stunning and brave folx from beyond the grave."Urgh I don't know what to do.Want my organs to be used for people to survive, or see, or hear, whatever, not so my body can be wasted on a TIM who thinks we're nothing but menstruators and breeders, especially in a world where so many children are going it alone, just crazy.Not to mention think bringing a child into the world with the normalization of lifetime drug dependency and surgical mutilations as basic rites of passage is just chilling, absolutely chilling.  One of the most shocking things I've realized is just how protected transgenderism is becoming.There are subreddits depicting women getting peed on and raped, visibly suffering and with emptiness in their eyes. But where are the true hateful subreddits? The ones in which people say "transwomen are male". You know, a fact.There is also violent porn allowed on Twitter. That's totally fine! But if you live in England and are an elderly woman who makes anti-transgenderism tweets? Then you get reported to the police!I guess this "re-peaked" me. This is all fucking insane.Agreed. And none of them lift a finger to point out the violence against women. They like those subreddits because the alternative would be kink shaming which we all know is the bigger evil than rape!  Protected indeed.A couple of days ago, I encountered a piece from the CBC (Canadian Broadcasting Company): after U.S authorities had shut down Backpage in 2018, a website that, among other things, provided a platform for human traffickers to sell access to their victims, another website, LeoList, soon rose in popularity in Canada to take its place.In any case, the piece chose to focus on the harm that shutting down Backpage had caused prostitutes, who also used the website to sell services, and featured an interview with a sex worker TIM, Jelena Vermillion(sp?). In addition to complaining about his loss of earnings, Jelena opined about how, even when the website was up and running, he earned less money than women because he was forced to advertise his services under the "Trans Woman" category, where, presumably, there was less demand, verses advertising under the "Woman" category.So, a story about the closing of a website platform that allows prostitutes and human traffickers to sell sex focuses on the harm done to a TIM sex worker and how, even before the closure, he had it worse than his female competitors due to the unwillingness of the website creators and potential customers to conflate transwomen and women.Now, admittedly, I don't know if the CBC has other stories on the closure of Backpage...perhaps it does...stories that feature a variety of voices, and how the shutdown of such a website platform affects them.But, what struck me was, in this particular story, the centrality of Jelena Vermillion's experiences, and that the voices of victims of sex trafficking (who are almost always women and children), the social workers that serve them, and experts in human trafficking were missing.In effect, the CBC piece was all about the TIM and the transactivist agenda.  It showed little interest in the horrific harm caused to women and children caught up in trafficking.Edited for clarity.A little OT, but I'm actually really pissed off about how mainstream media is reporting on this whole FOSTA thing and the closing of Backpage. There are so many stories of trafficked women and girls; and activists, but they refuse to air any of their POVs. There's also no discussion on if websites should be able to facilitate and profit off crime w/o any culpability- which is really what the law prevents. Backpage would rather close down than take steps to make sure the prostitutes on their website are there by "choice" (bc everyone really knows most aren't). Instead, in mainstream media it's all happy hookers and how this hurts empowered sex workers.Its surreal isnt it. Its mainstream and empowering to abuse some. It means we have "agency." But god forbid you state a fact such as- males and females are different and male bodies shouldnt play in women sports league- and you're condemned and censored. Its just insane.I keep thinking about that GameStop video and how everyone who acknowledged reality that the ma'am is in fact a man- they had their comments removed. We can't even acknowledge basic reality that we can see right in front of our eyes.You mean men, how protected men are becoming, not that they ever needed it before so it's a shock to their sensitive still functioning fragile male egos.More of my usual insane internet shit... I peaked hard this week.I've been reading postings by "plurals" (very short summary: people who identify as multiple people in one body) because I have nothing better to do I guess. And obviously the topic of "how do we know we're not faking it and this plurality thing isn't just me forcing myself to believe this is real?" comes up a lot.You want to know their best explanation for that? The one-size-fits-all cannot be disproven explanation for how they're able to create Real Imaginary Friends that control their bodies, have varying accents, skills, and memories? The explanation every one of them uses?"I felt the same feeling now as when I found out I was trans."What?!?! How do you expect me to believe in this trans crap now, huh?!(very short summary: people who identify as multiple people in one body)It's amazing this still goes on. The idea of a "Sybil" multiple personalities type person was debunked by psychology a long time ago. The most common cause is probably some type of trauma, the pressure of gender roles in society today or wanting to be 'special' or 'different' (aka most teens these days).Plurals is a pretty interesting concept. How could you have multiple people in your body? Why would anyone think that? The first logical sociological analysis that comes to my mind is that we've been exposed to way too much TV/media in general, in which characters are often uni-dimensional, or stereotypical. So maybe people who feel like they have eclectic personality traits have a hard time understanding that this is possible inside only one person.Because they dissociate. Theyre often sort of floating outside themselves, dont always experience themselves as responsible for their actions, and have surprising thoughts and feelings that they arent aware of having formed.It makes quite a lot of sense to think of yourself as multiple if you dissociate a lot. In fact you almost have to... often people healing trauma have to think of their traumatised selves as separate entities to some extent, the inner child or whatever, in order to heal. The goal is to rebuild connections to those split off parts of the self. This is a much less healthy approach to the same thing.And I am not at ALL surprised its the same feeling as being trans. Its obvious that a lot of trans people are doing it as a coping mechanism for dissociation.Introductory post from a throw-away account.  Long time lurker of the subreddit, but finally getting around to being more active.  Hate that it has come to creating a separate account for conversation, but here we are.I honestly don't even remember my exact peak trans moment.  It's been several years at least.I'm a 30 something year old lesbian.  I came out in high school in the early 2000's.  I'm from a small town in the south, and oddly didn't experience much negativity.  There was one gay guy, and I was the token lesbian.  It worked out ok for me.  Dating was pretty much non-existent, but I had the internet at least.  I watched a lot of Xena, bought a lot of rainbow shit, and was generally very comfortable in my own skin.  I'm pretty fortunate to have had this happen so early in life.  I know not everyone is so lucky.Like most people my age, I've spent countless hours online, and unfortunately spent time on tumblr.  I can't knock it completely because I met my wife there, but I do remember several years ago really being annoyed by the younger generation's over-use of the term "queer" rather than gay or lesbian.  It didn't make sense.  Why would you EMPHASIZE the "odd" factor of your sexuality?Flash forward a few years, and all of the BS started to surface about lesbians HAVE to accept transwomen, and I guess if I had to put my finger on it, that was the catalyst for me.  I've been happily committed to my wife for a while so it wasn't even an active issue for me, but it just irritated the shit out of me.  I have one irl friend that's pretty active in the gc community.  We've never actively had conversations about it, but through her, I found places like this subreddit and started following a lot of radfem ladies on twitter.I initially created this account today to post an article about a 17 year old "transgirl" that was voted homecoming queen at a local high school.  I've had time to cool down since first reading the article.  I eye-rolled A LOT scrolling through the kid's instagram.  I never would have wanted to be on the homecoming court at 17, but I guess that's one more thing we can't have now either.My feeling is: let them have the homecoming court. Let the whole fucking homecoming court be trans. Make all the budding liberal handmaidens have to give way with a smile and make the wokebros have to escort and dance with them. Just don't give them the girls' STEM scholarships (probably won't be possible, since having strong skills in math and science is not feminine and therefore should be as triggering to them as not being able to menstruate).Thank you ! let them have the femininity ! Keep the male dominance out of sports and things that matter. And agree, when a girl wins a scholarship they'll just claim it must be because she's really a boy so doesn't qualify.My peak trans was back in 2012, I think. I was 12 at the time, and just getting into the whole "feminism" thing, mostly through social media. I was hanging out in the most popular russian-speaking community of liberal feminists at the time. I would mostly accept things, but some things were just... debatable.I remember the exact picture that sparked my interest in a different point of view.It was the whole social ladder - with transwomen of colour being at the very bottom, of course. The picture was an illustration for an article, and there was that phrase most of you are familiar with - "to be a woman means to feel like one".And it didn't make any sense to me. I never "felt like a girl" in my normal life. The time when I was reminded of my sex was always painful. I "felt like a girl" when getting chased by drunk men wanting to "get to know me". I "felt like a girl" when I would get chastised for not wearing skirts. I "felt like a girl" when I would wake up to a bloody bedsheet after starting my period.It wasn't something inside of my head. It was outside of my control. It was my body, and everything that people wanted to do with it.I couldn't understand how something like that could be a pure feeling that people could choose to get in and out of.I saw somebody ask similar questions in the comments. They were silenced and deleted within minutes.Wow. Thats nuts. I didnt realize it was an issue in Russia, too. Being a woman seems like a worse situation there and I guess I assumed women would see through the trans bullshitBasically, there is a nasty situation, with most of the people rejecting any notion of feminism, the government pushing ultra conservative values down everyone's throats and the educated west-oriented minority being deep in the swamp of trans ideology.It's quite crazy, indeed. Glad I'm out of there.First peak: hearing from TRA-supporting libfem friends that it is transphobic to speak of the female reproductive system and its health problems. I have had serious problems with my reproductive system since I was a girl, and we need to be able to talk about how institutional sexism in medicine affects diagnosis and proper treatment. We need to be able to talk about how women are expected to just silently accept pain, and how our pleasure is an afterthought, and that affects how our doctors view us.I will occasionally see TRAspeak show up in women's medical support groups, but thankfully it is rare so far.Second peak is sad and I will post it later.Ive seen this argument even from women who identify as nonbinary or transmasculine.  Its super frustrating.  For the people I know in real life, I cant even say if men or women are worse about claiming that sex isnt binary.The medical profession is still carrying on in the tradition of "the founder of gynecology" J. Marion Sims.Libfems have really latched onto prioritizing male comfort in all spaces, it's just unreal.Soooooo, we are to put men's feelings over cervical cancer? Ask these fools if i.s transphobic to get a smear test.  If it comes back bad,  is it transphobic to go to a woman's group for support.If so,  are they saying women should suffer in silence to spare the feelings of people with penises ? Ask them how this differs from any other oppression from people with penises. If the answer is,  because they think they are women,  ask them if they themselves would ever,  for example, tell a woman rejoicing in a pregnancy to shut up if they themselves were infertile.Ask them when prioritizing penis people selfish demands became feminismIt's actually TIFs who no longer want the word women to be used for women's healthcare, they decided to be men and now it's not fair, and that right there is about the only legit case that someone can actually be the opposite sex, because apparently male entitlement crosses DNA boundaries.Yeah but I dont believe for a second that its TIfs that are behind the push for linguistic erasure (of women and reproductive health). Since when do people (including health organizations) bend over backwards to accommodate (actual) women? And the trans movement doesnt care about TIfs. They only care about TIfs when they can be useful for optics and what not. Its the people born male and socialized accordingly that want to make the language used to describe women's material reality/reproductive health gender neutral or whatever. Because they hate women. And they hate what they cant have/purchase/surgically mimic.Agree women, especially TIFs, just don't have that power, no way would men hand it to them without a big fight. But like all of them they have to go along for it to work.Then....then I saw a little pin (woohoo pinterest) that had vague gender critical themes, that was "don't steal my post you nasty terfs but here's my radical aligned gender critical idea but Hey fuck you still" more than anything. I was like okay, cool, makes sense, I'll have to watch out for these so called 'terfs ' though. I accumulated a few more of those points throughout the next few months, still not outright saying I supported any of it, kind of afraid to, but secretly agreeing in my mind. Like I said, I can't remember exactly what triggered it, but I went down a Pinterest hole of radical feminism and I was hooked - everything makes sense. The world was tilted at 79 and now it's right side up again.in my day to day real life, I haven't experienced hardly any extreme TRA stuff, but I'm still pretty angry at everything going down. Female biology is super important and we should have every right to discuss and distinguish it, not go back 40 years in time. Lesbians like myself (although again I haven't personally experienced much homophobia living in the Bay Area, CA) need to be recognized as actual fucking people with real sexualities and boundaries that cannot be manipulated at the whims of men. Seeing female friends who were slightly uncomfortable with overt femininity suddenly transitioning into boys is very startling and absolutely does not address the actual problems of sexism and society's General rejection of woman that they're trying to escape. I could keep going....Point is yeah, I'm totally gender critical and I do not approve of the new trans movement. I am a young lesbian girl, hopefully someday a WOMAN, surrounded by modern trans activism's newest recruits, and I will not stand for it.Best of luck to you Sister.Thank you, and to you tooYeah! This is very hopeful!I first became aware of the trans issue back in 2015. I thought that it was an interesting debate but didn't really see the wider non-theoretical implications of the issue. I spoke to a couple of people about my gender critical ideas but was shut down pretty quickly. It was probably "call me Caitlyn" that first attracted my interest although I don't really remember.I moved overseas, started a new job, got married and then re-discovered the trans issue last year due to publicity surrounding the UK GRA consultation. Kudos to all the women who recognised the crucial importance of this debate and kept pulling for years and years with no-one behind you.Hello, all. I've been a radfem for about a year (I think?) now. I can't exactly pinpoint an exact peak trans moment for me, but one of the things that threw me was the fact that transwomen are being considered female in crime statistics. As someone who is getting a degree in criminal justice, this is just alarming to me. Not only is it skewing statistics for women, but it also puts women in women's prison's in danger, especially if the transwomen are imprisoned for violent or sex crimes.A kind of peak trans moment was this past year, when I was still with my ex-boyfriend. He had a group of friends that he would play roleplaying games with, two of them being identical male twins. One of them, however, was a transwoman. Cool, okay, fine. I didn't end up liking him. At all. Not because he was trans but because he was so god damn annoying. What bothered me about his trans situation is that he made absolutely zero effort to transition, yet expected everyone to call him she/her pronouns. The only thing that he would do on occasion is wear makeup and heels sometimes. Another thing that bothered me was that he was apparently a sex educator, where he taught people how to engage in certain kinks properly, including BDSM and bodily-fluid play (I'm not sure what that is called). In addition to being gender-critical, I am also kink and porn-critical, so that was just the icing on the cake. He would do these things and just constantly talk about what it is to be a woman, when he very clearly has zero idea what being a woman is. I am all for having men who want to wear makeup and dresses and heels, but it is only when they say that it makes them a woman that I have issue with it.I used to be very pro-trans, but then I started reading radfem stuff and saw the absolute toxicity and male-centrism that is liberal feminism and the TRA community. However, when I was pro-trans, I always got a sour taste in my mouth whenever I would say "trans women are women", because I knew, even then, that they very much were not. I first started questioning it with Caitlyn Jenner, when he was called Woman of the Year for getting plastic surgery and changing his name. I am at a very liberal school with a very active LGBT community so I can't voice these opinions out loud, and the only people who agree with me are people who I disagree with on very fundamental moral issues, so I'm glad this thread exists.Of course when there's any crime against them they're fine with being labeled transgender, but why do authorities go along with it?Right. I suppose its because they want to push the whole hate crime false statistics theyre spreading. I dont wish any harm on anybody, ever. But the whole 1 in 12 trans people are murdered every year is misleading at best and completely false at worst. If 1 in 12 were really murdered there would be dramatic drops in trans populations every year. On top of that, they blame us, women who only DISAGREE with their logic on gender politics, for any trans murder when, as usual, its always men who are murdering them.Another kind of peak for me was the fact that whenever I see a post by a trans person online, they ALWAYS need to point out the fact that theyre trans, and the comments are full of you are valid! Youre beautiful! And stuff. I saw a post on tumblr where someone said that TERFs are ugly and yadda yadda yadda. Someone responded with a picture of a trans woman, claiming it was a TERF. The OP responded saying Id give you a 2/10 at best. So even their SUPPORTERS lie to them when it comes to it.Now theres the wave on tumblr targeting TEHMs - trans exclusive homosexual males. Theyre throwing a fit because people are acknowledging thats sexual orientation is based on SEX.Wonder what happens when the LG part of the LBGT realize they're all going QT and revolt.Trans people are murdered like prostitutes are murdered, being alone, dressed skimpily, late hours, but no one gives a crap when it's women, and trans assaults and murders often involve other transgender partners and/or domestic partners, just like any domestic abuse. The statistics are skewed, the group with the highest rates of murder are actually men.Wonder if this world will ever have activists again that center the murder and assault of females.Thats what I hope feminism will turn into. We need anti-porn, female-only feminism again. We need to take a page from the women in South Koreas book, who are refusing to marry, have sex with, or even really engage with men. Theyre taking to the streets to protest sex-based oppression, most recently being spy cams in womens bathrooms that have the videos uploaded to porn sites.However, USs feminism has made the word intersectionality (originally coined to describe the fact that whatever sexism women of color face is racialized and the racism they face is sexualized) interchangeable with inclusivity. I hate that. Feminism is not the catch-all of social movements. Its always been by females, for females, and only for females.Theres a very little chance we could gather radical feminists for a march or protest without libfems and TRAs crashing the party and making a huge deal about how were not being inclusive enough.You take one step forward, youre forced to take two steps back.Just scrolled through a few dozens of comments by a TiM on another subreddit. I can't fucking do it with these semantic mind games. "This word doesn't mean what you think it means. Obviously that makes the colloquial definition that you're using wrong but it doesn't mean what you think it means!! And I'm going to tell you what [I think] it means even if I just said I can't control what it means!!!"This is basically what they're doing. La la la, definitions are descriptive and not prescriptive, can't control how people change language la la. But as soon as, I repeat, as soon as that invalidates someone, it's wrong. If someone can't just throw labels they like onto themselves like a soup can, "it's not your right to invalidate their existence!" but god forbid anyone else offer their 2c about the definition.I guess this is just what we do now huh. Get pissed at people for saying lesbians only like women based on nothing but feelings. Get pissed at TERFs for saying women are female based on nothing but feelings. And while we're at it let's appeal to an authority who doesn't study sex or sexuality. Above all, the only definition of any identity-related word is dictated by me and anyone who agrees with me and that's all.I'm done.That descriptivist argument always kills me. Like if that were really the case, yall wouldnt need so much lobbying and deplatforming and policing for perceived linguistic crimes.When I use a word, Humpty Dumpty said in rather a scornful tone, it means just what I choose it to mean  neither more nor less.The question is, said Alice, whether you can make words mean so many different things.The question is, said Humpty Dumpty, which is to be master  thats all.Best comment all day.  Post modernism in a nutshell And proof that there's nothing new under the sun.Bi Guy supporter. I'm here to listen and lurk so I don't intend to post (err, outside of this). I don't like the feeling of stealing female spaces, but thought this addition may be notable and seems to best place to raise up. I will delete this if it is preferred.Preface to say I can't truthfully say I'm anti trans. My gut reaction is always to try to stay silent and understand when I don't understand something. In real life my social circle is almost entirely female. I know a Trans man an a Trans woman, both went through the common idea of sexual transition, lots of dysphoria, transitioned in adulthood. Neither seem to hold shitty gender notions, but I haven't talked to either that much about it, so I'm not really aware.Online spaces are a whole different question. I joined a certain youtuber's discord. The first alarm-bell was near romanticizing of mental illness, I'd expand but I don't want to sidetrack. The server is ~50% TIMs, Alarm bell 2 was the utter lack of women, there are maybe a handful that show up and leave soon after.First peak was repeated heated debates wherein one transperson more similar to the people I know irl would talk about genital / hormone / facial hair dysphoria, or not interfere in female spaces because they felt they had been too socialized as male / had experienced male privilege pre-transition. In reaction that person would be mobbed by 'not all trans people have dysphoria' that persons experiences apparently didn't conform to the trans as gender essentialism, 'girldick' brigade.Second peak, and the one that made me want to share this all, was one TIM who had identified as trans for 2 years went on a tirade where, pretty much directly after near admitting they felt like their conception of themselves was as a female stereotype. They complained about how gross hygiene disposal bins are and how they don't like seeing them in washrooms and did not understand their point. It was there that I, a guy, knew more about periods than this supposed woman. And had to explain what the point of those bins are / why there are used tampons thrown away in them. I had to inform them why they should not, infact, use them as garbage bins incase someone needs to use them. It was like middle school lesson where all they could say was how yucky it was to them. Naturally they are also into the 'lesbians should accept girldick' thing.It feels like most (not all) transwomen view being a woman as you said, a stereotype. i would watch youtube videos of them when i was a supporter, and their views on being a woman was wearing makeup, being thin, and for some reason liking pink. they also talked about how they knew they were women as children because they liked pink and played with dolls, which bothered me because just because a boy likes the color pink and likes to play with dolls doesn't mean he's secretly a girl. sadly, this thinking has already caused "woke" parents to declare their young sons are girls because they like pink and dolls. same with little girls who are tom boys, many parents online have already branded their little girls as boys because they enjoy playing with trucks and hate wearing dresses.That's honestly horrifying. I'm thinking back to my interests when I was really young and I can guarantee if that kind of person was my parent they would impose it on me.Even though I've been posting here for a long time, I've never posted my peak trans moment because I couldn't remember what exactly it was. Suddenly, tonight, I remembered. This is gonna be long...Years ago (under a different username), I started getting tired of the sub twoxchromosomes because 1. way too many men and 2. tone policing up the ass. A woman could be pouring her heart out about some traumatic event that happened to her and all of the sudden everyone was pointing out how "problematic" her language was, "exclusive," etc. (I didn't connect the dots at the time that so much of that was about "transphobia" and including men in everything - I just thought it was the new feminism/SJW bs and actually went through a long period where I resented feminism because all I saw was liberal feminism. Sad.) I envisioned a private space where women could just be themselves and speak about our anger, our passions, whatever was going on in our lives, and not be attacked for our language unless it was egregiously racist or bigoted. So I made an alternative. The goal was that the only requirement is that you are a woman. I wanted all women to have a place to talk about whatever affects us - it wasn't a feminist sub or anything, just a place for women. (If only I had known about radical feminism back then) I hoped it would bring women from many backgrounds and places together to bond over the one thing we all share.It's dead now, so I won't post it here. But this is what happened...I added a couple of other women who seemed enthusiastic about a women-only space to help me. In retrospect I should not have been the head mod because I didn't have much experience with css and also had a very demanding job, but I wanted to create that space that as far as I could tell did not exist so I went ahead anyway. It was private and we developed an extensive vetting process to ensure people were women involving searching posting histories.Almost immediately a few TIMs applied to join the sub. In my mind they did not count as actual women when it comes to the experiences and socialization we share, but several of the new mods I'd added were very enthusiastic about being open to trans people like it was a given that they had the same experiences as us or something. I didn't want to be called "transphobic," and I figured that there would only a few of them trying to get in, so I reluctantly went ahead with it.Then, as far as they knew, I pretty much dropped off of the face of the earth. I maintained that it was because of my job, but the reality was that LITERALLY ALMOST EVERY NEW APPLICANT WAS A TIM. The posts were all about "passing" or "how do I tell my parents I'm trans" or "HRT is so hard" with one or two actual women's issues like sexism at work or sexual assault. I couldn't deal with it, and I'll admit that I was a coward and just sort of ghosted the sub I'd opened in the first place. I was so pissed off that all of these men had taken over what was supposed to be a WOMAN'S place to vent about horrible shit going on that affects us and turned it into "look how cute I am in a bra" bullshit. I couldn't face it and most of the other moderators seemed totally fine with it so I left things to them. It was partially my fault for not selecting the correct people to mod the place, of course.Months later, I checked in on the sub and found out that they had booted the co-founding mod who actually agreed with my principles because they searched her history and found out she was transphobic, or some other SJW no-no. They also had changed the rules back to the typical SJW tone policing I had opposed in the first place. I got super pissed and kicked all of the mods off and was about to take the sub public because in my mind it no longer served a purpose. Most people were like "Oh no but my parents might find out that I'm trans!" which I expected but I realized that could out a few of the women with actual private issues they may not want public (like experiences with rape) so I changed my mind. I basically went "fuck it" and gave the sub over to the people who were running it before, and fucked off back to my life.So that was my experience with trying to create a space for women. Men WILL try to colonize it, and other women will facilitate their efforts to do so. I love this subreddit so much because the best mods run it and ensure that will never happen here. But it was heartbreaking at the time, and really opened my eyes to how narcissistic men can be in forcing women to cater to their every whim. If we want something they don't have, they will try to take it for themselves however they can. They do not give a fuck about how that affects us.I first started peaking after reading this on BuzzFeed, as well as the comments on it: https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/shannonkeating/can-lesbian-identity-survive-the-gender-revolutionI was so weirded out by the fact that it was only addressing lesbian identity and not gay male identity, and it was the first time I was introduced to the idea that lesbians are supposed to be attracted to people who identify as women not to, you know, females.Oh right, and the fucking worst of this is the notion that lesbianism has "deeply oppressive roots."Maybe the pro-lesbian/anti-TRA comments weren't there when you originally saw it, but I was so glad that most of the comments are criticizing the article and defending a lesbian's homosexuality!the notion that lesbianism has "deeply oppressive roots."My eyes rolled so far back in my head at this.Maybe the future really can be female. That depends on how we define it.Only if we redefine female to include men can the future be female?Way to turn an inspirational message of hope and optimism into a promise that womens liberation is never going to happen. That article is bonkers "why are lesbian spaces disappearing?" And then later "lesbians spaces have been rebranded as inclusionary" (paraphrasing) ..duh... that's why they're gone...Right? At first it's like, "oh cool, this piece is going to explore how lesbian identity is vulnerable and under attack." And that quickly turns into "what... the... hell..."You can choose to identify how you want, and I will be more than happy to respect you, consider your feelings on matters, and treat you as I would want to be treated.That said, I dropped my support when I saw, quite unironically, on twitter: "How come they never tell us trans girls about our periods?"When I mentioned the fact that the posted did not have a uterus and ovaries, and therefore could literally not have periods, I was shouted down because when you start hormones you have "period like symptoms."I don't believe anyone is any particular gender. On one end is total masculinity (whatever that means) and on the other is total femininity (same), and we're all along that line somewhere, maybe multiple places. We're all different. However, unless you fit the build of "has a vagina, ovaries, and a uterus", you can't get periods.As a female identified trans person, I can tell you for a fact that we do not have periods. Sure, we may get headaches if our medication is off but we don't, oh you know, shed blood and tissue from the lining of the uterus.It's insulting to women to claim that we have periods.I'm on your side. It's utterly insane for a trans person to say they have a period. And it demeans women.If youre on my side, stop referring to yourself as female identifying. You cant identify as a female. You either are one or youre not.This sounds like a harsh reply, but I appreciate your honesty. "Trans-identifying" makes sense, and there should be no stigma attached to it. Identifying as any other demographic is problematic. "Asian-identifying"? "Jewish-identifying"? If you can see why those don't work, it should be clear why "female-identifying" is just as offensive.:(Hey Pickle, I like your name!thanks :)You're welcome dear!It's cute.I completely agree. That's something I tried to get across too, but was immediately shouted down. I don't deny for a second that HRT may have some side effects that are unpleasant, but to call it a period? I may be male, but I try to be as respectful as I can towards the process and stay knowledgeable.It's nice to meet someone with a good head on their shoulders who is also trans :)Oh believe you me I know, doesn't take much more than a middle school health class to know how this stuff works lol    Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.A Song of Lilith by Joy Kogawa. It's like my personal Bible. Beautiful poem and illustrations about the story of Lilith and what it is to be Woman.I've been throughly enjoying Miss Fisher's Murder Mysteries on Netflix. I'm not sure it passes the reverse bechedel test...Oh, thanks. I'll try that one.I really enjoyed that show!  Where are you in it?I just finished it and now I'm sad because it is over, but I read there is a movie in post production so now I'm less sad.My mom is a huge fan and we've watched the entire series together.Im watching the Colombo series in order. Its interesting to see how life was in the 70s. The technology played a role in some of the murders. The sexism is very noticeable.I'm watching Columbo too. I've seen them all before a number of times over the years but it's fun to notice new things about it that I hadn't noticed before. Some networks edit out some of the good parts though. Are you watching it on DVD?Im taking the 5th on where we got themlol, same here. ;)I literally can't stop reading romance novels. It's pretty embarrassing but I fucking love them.Im like this with cozy mysteries.  Its super embarrassing but theyre so fun to read.  I like genre fiction generally and wouldnt mind getting into romance novelsI love cozy mysteries too. Specifically I mostly read lesbian ones. They're just fun!another one aboard the fucking love romance novels train. do you have any good recommendations? i've narrowed it down by a lot, but i've been searching for the fluffiest, heartwarming, laugh-out-loud novels i can find. with everything going on, sometimes you just want something that's like a big ol' mug of hot chocolate in your hands.Highly recommend the Julia Quinn Bridgeton series. I am beyond embarrassed to admit this. It's a very sweet series.I'm not judging you when I say I have no interest in romance novels (unless Jane Austen wrote romance novels). But I do love detective/mystery/suspence novels of a certain sort. Most of them I don't like but there are many that I do.And political analysis, philosophy, and history, of course. I am catholic in my tastes.I like romance novels too dont worry. Not all of them of course, and especially not the iffy Married to a Billionaire 50 shades stuff, but more than anything else, romance is about human relationships (whether idealized or not) and I find that interesting.I just finished the Netflix show Bodyguard. Very bingeable with lots of strong female characters and a hot male lead. Some sketchy politics though.Been re-reading the Sailor Moon manga lately. Can't think of another series that treats its female characters with such diversity, agency, and power. It's almost 30 years old and blows most other "feminist" media out of the water.Anyone else binge on Russian Doll??Yes! It's such a good show, all around.I'm only into shows about therapy and death at the moment!I watched a play at my school last night called Rapture, Blister, Burn.  It was really intense - I got very invested in it in a very short amount of time. But I was mostly excited because there are definite radfem themes portrayed in a neutral-to-positive light, like being anti-porn and prostitution. It has four female characters and one male, and very accurately captures the shittiness involved in being a woman, without being excessively bleak. It also has straight-up discussion of feminist figures like Betty Friedan. I was hoping Dworkin would be mentioned, but she wasn't, alas. Anyway, I highly recommend the play. I'd love to get ahold of a script to be able to consider things on my own time; the performance was very fast-paced and intense.Also, I've been watching One Strange Rock on Netflix, I had to take a break after the episode where the guy threw the baby lamb into the volcano, but it's been a good series so far and I guess I understand why they would show that. I had been binging the show for a few hours and needed a break anyway. I would recommend the series though.This is what they're showing, it's in episode three if you want to avoid it, it starts around 27 minutes in and is over by 31 or 32 minutes in https://www.ibtimes.co.uk/indonesia-hindus-throw-live-animals-into-crater-mount-bromo-volcano-gods-1460854Thank you so much for the warningIt's not the most upbeat book, but I really enjoy reading about things like the debate over existence vs nonexistence and the value of life and nature of the universe etc. I've been reading Thomas Ligotti's "The Conspiracy Against The Human Race"Here's an excerpt from the introduction :Like many who have tried their hand at metaphysics, Bahnsen declared that, appearances to the contrary, all reality is the expression of a unified, unchanging force---a cosmic movement that various philosophers have characterized in various ways. To Bahnsen, this force and its movement were monstrous in nature, resulting in a universe of indiscriminate butchery and mutual slaughter among its individuated parts. Additionally, the "universe according to Bahnsen" has never had any hint of design or direction. From the beginning it was a play with no plot and no players that were anything more than portions of a master drive of purposeless self-mutilation. In Bahnsen's philosophy, everything is in engaged in a disordered fantasia of carnage. Everything always tears away at everything else forever. Yet all this commotion in nothingness goes unnoticed by nearly everything involved in it. In a world of nature, as an instance, nothing knows of its embroilment in a festival of massacres. Only Bahnsen's self-conscious Nothing can know of what is going on and be shaken by the tremors of chaos at feast.There is also a bit about Mainlander's theory that the universe is actually God's suicide that I thought was worth transcribing to share with a friend, so I'll post it here as well. It's a bit longer but it's really interesting and well written:As one who had a special plan for the human race, Mainlander was not a modest thinker. "We are not everyday people," he once wrote in the royal third-person, "and must pay dearly for dining at the table of the gods." To top it off, suicide ran in his family. On the day his Philosophy of Redemption was published, Mainlander killed himself, possibly in a fit of megalomania but just as possibly in surrender to the extinction that for him was so attractive and that he avouched for ma most esoteric reason---Deicide.Mainlander was confident that the Will-to-die he believed would well up in humanity had been spiritually grafted into us by a God who, in the beginning, masterminded his own quietus. It seems that existence was a horror to God. Unfortunately God was impervious to the depredations of time. This being so, His only means to get free of himself was by a divine form of suicide.God's plan to suicide himself could not work, though, as long as He existed as a unified entity outside of space-time and matter. Seeking to nullify His oneness so that he could be delivered into nothingness, he shattered himself--big bang like--into the time-bound fragments of the universe, that is, all those objects and organisms that have been accumulating here and there for billions of years. In Mainlander's philosophy ""God knew that he could change from a state of super-reality into non-being only through the development of a real world of multiformity." Employing this strategy, He excluded Himself from being. "God is dead," wrote Mainlander, "and His death was the life of the world." Once the great individuation had been initiated, the momentum of its creator's self-annihilation would continue until everything because exhausted by its own existence, which for human beings meant the faster they learned that happiness was not as good as they thought it would be, the happier they would be to die out.So: The Will-to-Live that Schopenhauer argued activated the world to its torment was revised by his disciple Mainlander not only as evidence of a tortured life within living beings, but also as a cover for a clandestine will in all things to burn themselves out as hastily as possible in the fires of becoming. In this light, human progress is shown to be an ironic symptom that our downfall to extinction has been progressing nicely, because the more things change for the better, the more they progress toward a reliable end. And those who committed suicide, as did Mainlander, would only be forwarding God's blueprint for bringing an end to his creation. Naturally. Those who replaced themselves by procreation were of no help: "Death is succeeded by the absolute nothing: it is the perfect annihilation of each individual in appearance and being, supposing that by him no child has been begotten or born; for otherwise the individual would live on in that." Mainlander's argument that in the long run nonexistence is superior to existence was cobbled together from his unorthodox interpretation of Christian doctrines and from Buddhism as he understood it.As the average conscious mortal knows, Christianity and Buddhism are all for leaving this world behind, with their leave-taking being for destination unknown and impossible to conceive. For Mainlander, these destinations did not exist. His forecast was that one day our will to survive in this life or any other will be universally extinguished by a conscious will to die and stay dead after the example of the Creator. From the standpoint of Mainlander's philosophy, Zapffe's Last Messiah would not be an unwelcome sage but a crowning force of the post-divine era. Rather than resist our end, as Mainlander concludes, we will come to see that "the knowledge that life is worthless is the flower of all human wisdom." Elsewhere the philosopher states, "Life is hell, and the sweet still night of absolute death is the annihilation of hell."Inhospitable to rationality as Mainlander's cosmic scenario may seem, it should nonetheless give pause to anyone who is keen to make sense of the universe. Consider this: If something like God exists, or once existed, what would He not be capable of doing, or undoing? Why should God not want to be done with Himself because, unbeknownst to us, suffering was the essence of His being? Why should He not have brought forth a universe that is one great puppet show destined by Him to be crunched or scattered until absolute nothingness had been established? Why should He fail to see the benefits of nonexistence, as many of His lesser beings have? Revealed scripture there may be that tells a different story. But that does not mean it was revealed by a reliable narrator. Just because He asserted it was all good does not mean he meant what he said. Perhaps He did not want to leave a bad impression by telling us He had absented Himself from the ceremonies before they had begun. Alone, and immortal, nothing needed Him. Per Mainlander, though, He needed to bust out into a universe to complete his project of self-extinction, passing on His Horror piecemeal, so to say, to His creation.Mainlander's first philosophy, and last, is in fact no odder than any religious or secular ethos that presupposes the worth of human life. Both are objectively insupportable and irrational. Mainlander was a pessimist, and, just as with any optimist, he needed something to support his gut feeling about being alive. No one has yet conceived an authoritative reason for the human race should continue or discontinue its being, although some believe they have. Mainlander was sure he had an answer to what he judged to be the worthlessness and pain of existence, and none may peremptorily belie it. Ontologically, Mainlander's thought is delirious; metaphorically, it explains a good deal about human experience; practically, it may in time prove to be consistence with the idea of creation as a structure of creaking bones being eaten from within by a pestilent marrow.That there is redemption to be found in an ecumenical non-existence is an old idea on which Mainlander put a new face. For some it is a cherished idea, like that of a peaceful afterlife or progress toward perfection in this life. The need for such ideas comes out of the fact that existence is a condition with no redeeming qualities. If this were not so, none would need cherished ideas like an ecumenical nonexistence, a peaceful afterlife, or progress toward perfection in this life.I've been obsessed with Mr Robot lately.  Not particularly feminist, main character is a guy, but there are a lot of great characters on the show and I love the style.This was really transparent in Game of Thrones."Oh the rape and prostitution is fine, it's accurate, it's about how horrible feudalism was."But question the shaving, including the barbarian women who don't have metal shaving their vulvas? "Who are you to say they wouldn't remove their hair?" She doesn't even brush her hair or wash her clothes and I'm supposed to believe she pulls all her pubes and body hair out somehow for some reason... The actress even complained about that and the producers wouldn't change their minds.In the books Daenerys almost shits herself to death while also having a miscarriage. They left that out, not sexy. They couldn't even have her be bald after she chilled out in a fire.It's obvious it's really just "dicks first."Yeah, the GoT show went out of their way to add a lot of female nudity and (totally sexy) rape on top of what was already in the books. But sure, it's extremely realistic and necessary to the plot to have a bunch of conversations happen in a whorehouse for no particular reason.It seems really clear the producers/directors of GoT get off on violence against women. I get that the book was violent but its not like they 100% adhered to the plot so does a woman have to be raped every episode?They should have a character die of a completely treatable medical condition every episode to drive home how dark and edgy the world is lmao.No, sometimes a woman can be portrayed as a happy and consenting prostitute who loves her job, and isn't oppressed at all.  I admit I've never read the books, and I only seen a small amount of a few episodes, so not making judgement on plot or storyline.But what also gets me is this apparent pseudo realism of medieval culture (albeit in fantasy setting) of unremitting grimness and everyone gets raped all the time. Sure, the middle ages were dangerous for women - as is today, in different ways - but I just don't think it was some bleak hellscape of Everyday is Rape Day (TM).Off top of my head (rusty on this though), I mean, in fiction, you've got things like Chaucer's the Wife of Bath, where the rape of a girl is seen as a terrible thing and condemns protagonist to wander around for a year under pain of death until he solves a riddle; historically, rape occurs around flashpoints of invasion, as could be sadly expected; e.g,  monk chroniclers are appalled at Normans 'who, laughing among themselves, take by force young girls in front of their weeping (parents)' (cf Viking invasions as well) - the horror written around stories of rape at this crisis points suggests it was not an everyday or accepted part of life; there are strict laws around rape and how to punish it throughout medieval times, including from Viking invaders (once they'd settled down a bit,cf Cnut). Yes, punishments are staggered according to a woman's status but quite frankly it's not different in the 21st century, we're just not so crass to write down it in law.Sex trafficking and slave trade in medieval Ireland and Dublin is repeatedly condemned; when the church in Italy and Spain start to take control over secular marriage, they insist on consent from both parties being written into marital process, which helps prevent bride abduction / rape by forced marriage (1215 lateran council).I can't remember if this was just a medieval story passed down or written in a court case somewhere, but apparently 15th century  Thomas Malory, who wrote Morte d'arthur, was refused entry into noble houses up and down the land as one noblewoman had publicly shamed him as having raped a poor servant girl and wouldn't give him bed or board. Everyone else followed suit, meaning hottest new court author couldn't find a bed for the night, let alone a patron. (May have got some details wrong, studied it yonks ago, but that's gist).I'm not saying that rape didn't happen, of course it did, perhaps with frequency, perhaps with cruelty, there's recorded rapes, and mass rapes, there's a vocabulary for it, there's the invisible, unwritten experiences of the majority of women, there's going to be different definitions and understandings of what rape is, and all kinds of other conditions and caveats, but if my rusty history module in college serves me correctly then the fact that rape is talked about a) in condemnatory terms meriting severe punishment says it wasn't a social neutral or  necessarily normalised part of life for women in feudal/medieval times and b) fiction like Chaucer reflects in some way attitudes if not realities, which suggests a negative attitude to rape and c) a lot of it seems to be written around invasion and conquest - crisis events, not everyday ones....then even their argument that, let's be honest, fecking ubiquitous rape, incest, torture porn, orgies, sexual abuse in GOT is justified in reflecting the gritty, everyday  reality of feudalism in thirteenth century Shite World - even that doesn't hold water.Maybe we can blame it on typical superior attitude we tend to have looking at the past especially 'the Dark Ages' -(obvs those primitives did the old raping an' pillaging like we'd shake hands /s) -  but it just looks like more and more like a nasty excuse to titillate men by claiming it has some bizarre historical merit to it. And in a show with bloody dragons in it!! DRAGONS!!Rape can lead to pregnancy.  Of COURSE any culture/society is going to pay great attention to this, they understood the "birds and the bees" well enough.  Rape! Unwanted pregnancy! Right, patriarchy, paternity is an issue.Game of Thrones is such a train wreck and has a pretty nasty fan base. Like when Sansa was being raped all the fanboys were talking about how it developed Therons character so well.https://gameofthrones.fandom.com/wiki/TheronI think they mean't Theon?Yeah, I thought so too. I just was not sure either way.Gotta make sure we realistically and accurately portray the history of Westeros.It's not just there for the sake of being faithful or anything, they put it in because it affects the plot and they wanted to make a point about surviving violence against women.The disingenuousness of defending rape scenes in popular entertainment as "historically accurate" becomes especially transparent when the show/movie in question involves fantasy elements. There are dragons and wizards and zombies and you're really going to say "that's what things were like back then" when someone criticizes the frequent, gratuitous rape scenes? What things were like back when? Where?I agree with it but I think this is a poor argument. The dragons and wizards and this fantasy stuff are (usually) very well established in the universe.The problem is, so is violence against women. The problem is the men behind it choosing to include only the aspect of violence against women in their realism trope.For me personally, it's a need to get people to acknowledge that violence against women is a choice in these stories. If you have dragons and wizards and zombies, clearly being real isn't what you're going for. Like dragons and wizards and zombies, violence against women is a choice, an addition, that the writer made for their story. It's like, if you can imagine a world with dragons and wizards and zombies, I think you can imagine a world without violence against women, you know?This is why I love the "Dealing With Dragons" (Enchanted Forest?) series, and always will. It is about a princess who doesn't want to be a princess (because you know, of how useless princesses are meant to be), so she learns to swordfight and runs off to make friends with the King of the Dragons, who is actually female. There is also a powerful female witch who lives in the Enchanted Forest, and when the princess meets male characters they all fall totally in love with her, since she is brilliant, intelligent, and brave, and kicks ass, and the whole series subverts sexism in fantasy, has zero rape scenes and is all about the inner lives of women.So, yeah, but...history???My take on it too, as a writer, is that if you add in fantasy elements like magic, the question would have to be: "Why aren't all these raped women learning magic?" I know the fanboys would argue they aren't allowed, but... please. If even ONE woman managed to, you can't tell me that it didn't occur to her to create herself an army of formerly-oppressed, magic-wielding all woman army eager to do her bidding? They act as if adding fantasy elements wouldn't change anything else about how the world works. Bollocks, I say to that.Even if something is fantasy, human nature has to seem somewhat realistic and male violence against women has always been a thing no matter the time period. Its part of the male psyche and to erase it would mean building a universe where men treat women as equals takes some creativity.It is mans nature to take advantage of those weaker, especially during times of war and chaos, but often even during times of peace women are taken advantage of.So the universe has to somehow compensate for the physical and reproductive vulnerability of women to close the gap. In some cases its magic. Either way, it takes some creativity to come up with an alternate universe where the evilness in mens heart will allow everything else (lying, cheating, stealing, murder, pillaging, war) yet not include rape.Thats not to say I approve rape scenes, I am only making a point about creating a world where the sexes are equal but you still want to make it a Game if Thrones type story.human nature has to seem somewhat realisticThere's many different facets to human nature. You don't have to focus on the sexual violence of men or even the dynamic between the sexes. We are told stories all the time about extraordinary people or extraordinary times. As you say, it's a matter of creativity.How many 15 year old girls do you know can command armies? None of them. Somehow we can all suspend our disbelieve that a teenager is leading an army but suddenly require absolute realism when it comes to people raping mentally disabled women (which isn't even central to the plot)?Even if something is fantasy, human nature has to seem somewhat realistic and male violence against women has always been a thing no matter the time period.It's human nature seen through a particular late 20th century lens that was old-fashioned even at the time it was written.A large part of good fantasy is keeping this vs grounded when they need to be. Having people get killed is also a choice GRRM made, characters not being happy 100% of the time is also a choice. ASOIAFs appeal for me is its morally complex  characters and political dynamics, especially those that arise from fantasy elements interacting with realistic people. If you have a Mad King who's happy to burn people alive, he's probably going to be a OK with raping people too.There are plenty of stories with morally complex characters and political dynamics without the gratuitous rape and violence of ASOIAF. IIRC, LotR, despite being a total sausage fest, managed without the rape and violence (just to give a contemporary mainstream example). It's entirely possible. To put this element into a story is either a conscious choice or it's a lack of imagination.Lord of the Rings is not contemporary with A Song of Ice and Fire.I just get to the most obvious conclusion. Writers are products of their environment. Lord of the Rings lacks an obsession with sexual violence because Tolkein was preoccupied with race and class instead. These were the big controversial topics of his time. George R. R. Martin comes from a time and a culture more obsessed with sexual violence.Never watched game of thrones. My argument is referring all modern medieval fantasy settings.It especially drives me nuts with fantasy settings. Its FANTASY, theres no reason to adhere to actual past human cultural mores.Amen to this. So often, the sexual violence adds little to nothing to the plot and could so very easily be left out. It's just there for gratuitous ~realism~.And only against women and girl. Men and boys got raped too but they dont show that. They dont show eunuchs being castrated either.GoT more than any other show lays bare how much of an audience there is for rape. It is basically just regular mainstream pornography added into the show, since this is what men watch when they are at home alone anyway.This is why I wonder about when we tell our stories of rape, how many men get off on it (a lot of them, probably). I still hope to find a way to tell a story of rape that is not only about injustice but the humanity and pain of the victim, and the craven, cowardly, insecure nature of the rapist, to dispel the myth in the collective male mind that rapists are somehow "powerful," "dominating" (they  usually choose the weakest, most vulnerable victims) or "masculine." I want to see more depictions of being a man as being absolutely disgusted with this kind of treatment of women, and I think it would be great for boys to directly link in their minds being disgusted with this kind of treatment of women, and actually meeting and having a chance with real women (apparently this has actually happened irl--no doubt many times--a reformed incel has decided to quit his obsessive hatred of women for not sleeping with him, and his seething, rapey fantasies, and focuses instead on his interests and becoming a happier person, and then lo and behold, he finds a girlfriend, without even having examined his own misogyny or resentment, simply by lightening the fuck up and deciding the focus of his life won't be treating women as objects to pursue).I wish some men would step up and write books and TV shows for boys about how to resist masculine indoctrination and what it means to be a good person.It's "realism" but women are also lying about being oppressed for centuries. Pick one, assholes.Makes me think of the shitfest that breaks out whenever developers dare to diversify their games. Yes, your games were terrifyingly accurate depictions of the horrors of warfare right up until a woman or a black person showed up. /sThis is what the show Spartacus was all about. Gratuitous rape. Rape scenes were showed almost every episode.I never watched Game of thrones for this particular reason, and Vikings. Fuck everyones opinion, im never going to change my mind. Female misery is not some glamourizer, its terrible reality for too many of us and i refuse to watch media showing this pain as something sexyGame of Thrones is way, waaaay worse than Vikings.55 minutes agoAgreed.  The female characters are much stronger in Vikings and there is a lot less sexual violence.I see this sometimes with video games as well. There's no way to criticize or praise a game having no black people or for including women respectively while having "that's not realistic" be an unlikely argument. If you show the real brutality of some real events - "I use video games as escapism. I don't need to see that." There may be an existing fallacy that applies to the logic I just used, but I hate it regardless. Every male protagonist can be a one-man-army bullet sponge who doesn't take orders from no one and doesn't question his morality after killing dozens of people, but try any other type of protagonist in any other situation and it's bad news bears. They'll complain about the SJWs taking over the gaming industry and forcing their agenda on their games, all because someone dared to talk about anything remotely relevant to anyone other than a straight white man. No one (hyperbole beyond words) actually cares about realism until something encroaches on their fantasies.I think it's fine for fantasy to discuss such things as well as other depressing subjects. It's just that the obsession with it and the quantity we're objected to if we dare watch TV is really creepy. I've stopped watching investigation and police TV shows for the same reason.Yes, I don't think it's automatically bad to have rape in fiction, but it often feels like writers just default to violence against women, often as a background thing that's not even essential to the plot, as a way to make things ~dark~ and edgy. There are so many other ways they could do that and it's very telling that they keep coming back to rape.Realism argument when talking about popular culture is supremely stupid. It's commercial at it's core  It's because fiction reflects the fixations of the time it was written, and fantasy tends to be slightly-to-very conservative. Sci fi tends to go in the opposite direction. There are exceptions. Both sci fi and fantasy say more about the time they're written in than whatever past or future era they're depicting.Lord of the Rings has this fixation on class and ethnicity because it was written at a time when people were preoccupied with imperialism, eugenics and the threat of revolution. It also contains religious themes because there'd been a long culture war being waged since Darwin.A Song of Ice and Fire is a product of the sexual revolution in the 60s and its aftereffects. It's also a response to second-wave feminism and the increasing focus on male violence and power imbalances between men and women in sex. Even its political intricacy in terms of plot reflects a sense that geopolitics in particular is shady. The way that everyone is so damn scheming and selfish - that's a reflection of the individualism of the end of the 20th century and the start of the 21st.ETA: Actually, thinking about it, ASOIAF is a bit thematically old hat already, kinda like LOTR was for its time. That's part of the appeal to its audience. Sorry to any fantasy fiction fans out there.Why even include violence at all? It's ridiculous and doesn't add anything of value.Some people find it entertaining? I think it can serve a purpose in story telling.Gross. By that logic, so could rape.Sure, and some incredibly heart-wrenching and thought-provoking stories and artworks have been created around the topic of rape.Perhaps you disagree with GoT's particular presentation of violence, but I personally wouldn't dismiss the concept entirely as something of no value.Yeah someone responded to a post I made about a couple of shows with this.I get why they wouldn't want people to look ugly ugly, I mean, the actors have other shows to be in. I agree with the rest, and the general idea here.It's the worst with fantasy stuff, like DnD or Game of Thrones.Like, yeah, how dare we not have sexual violence, that's not at all an accurate depiction of the histories of Faerun and Westeros!  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.  My childrens father (using that term loosely) is a TiM and in coming out he told me he wasnt sure if he would continue being a parent or not. He said if he did choose to do so he wouldnt want to be mum or dad, but an Aunty. He said he could never be in the role of a parent again because of his new found real self. I would have never accepted him wanting to be called mum. Its insulting. Thankfully he chose not to be involved at all so Ive never had to deal with that ridiculous scenario.Theres a tim politician in massachusetts called alexandra chandler who has kids with his wife who has been with him through his transition and it makes me angry because they dont even know what its like to have the fertility issues of a lesbian couple and clearly literally used his penis and sperm ejaculated into her and yet he gets to be called a mother? okP.S. "she" was one of the speakers who took over the WOMENS march to talk about trans issues.We literally have nothing in common with these men. Their concerns are about forcing the world to deny reality. Our concerns about the reality women face. The two literally have nothing to do with each other.A friend of mine split from a (now) TIM and all of a sudden goes from papa to mom. I just feel for the kid. You can definitely have two moms in a family, or a non gestational mom, but to expect a TWO year old to switch to mom amidst a nasty split... just fucking selfish and self absorbed. And to refer to your ex as her "other mom"... it makes me cringe when I deal with him.Also how insanely traumatizing it must it be for young children to be told that their father no longer exists and has somehow transformed into a second mother.But, as in all things, Tim's desires trump everyone else's interests. Just think of the ~validation~ he feels when his kids are forced to call him mommy for the first time!This happened to an acquaintance who has a daughter: shortly after divorcing her husband he came out as trans. This middle aged dude immediately becomes a star in the local feminist activist scene (libfems are handmaidens and LOVE TIMs, as we know). He gets this maternity group to support him in accusing the mother of parental alienation and transphobia, and campaigning that he is also a mother. The support group calls out a MARCH to support him! This acquaintance is a very private person and suddenly saw her daughter's pictures plastered all over facebook. Fortunately, feminists intervened by asking a bunch of questions: "have you heard the other side? Do we actually know what's happening? Do we just take his word for it? You are shaming a mother without even knowing what is really going on!". Their page started to get bombarded so they pulled off.I'm just going to say it: 75% of the issues we have with TIMs comes from WOMEN who support them on the expense of other women. The mental contortions and justifications these women resort to justify their support of the most outrageous behaviours just show that they don't see TIMs as women. I'm so sick of transmaidens.Being responsible for a child while performing femininity is not grounds for erasing true motherhood.  It is one of the defining qualities of the female sex.  You can't have it...because you aren't female.54 minutes agoOk so let me get this straight, I have to say "pregnant people" and call breast feeding "chest-feeding" but certain men performing femininity are allowed to call themselves mothers? This is absurd.  I get what you're saying, but you're just giving them more fuel for the "terf" fire. Everything you said about what they DON'T do can be said for adoptive mothers as well, except for "caregiver".Women aren't naturally caregivers, that's a gender role. As individuals, we may be caring and empathetic and giving, etc etc, but taking those traits and turning them into "the caregiver" is harmful.So, what makes a woman who adopts a child a mother?EDIT: Or what about 2 lesbian women who have children... only one gestates, are they both mothers or only one?So what is the difference between a mother and father? Its just a gendered term for parent. They can never be a BIRTH mother. They can be a non-birth-parent...  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.I'm still spitting mad about an article I started reading on Buzzfeed (that prestigious news source). It started with a paragraph about an ailment "...that affects people who were assigned female at birth". And the ailment?  PCOS!!!  Gggrrrrr!Wow it seems like assigning people female at birth is pretty dangerous. They should stop doing it!BahahaThats so spot on.Random high pitch choking laughter.  Good thing my kids already think I am crazy and weird hahaIt started with a paragraph about an ailment "...that affects people who were assigned female at birth"You know, I just cannot get over how buzzfeed publishes articles like "are sweatpants cultural appropriation" but all that cultural sensitivity goes out the window when it comes to the co-option of terms used by the intersex community to describe often traumatic surgeries imposed upon them as infants.>are sweatpants cultural appropriation?I know. We really need to stop appropriating 80s culture. Next people will be wearing legwarmers and listening to Duran Duran and that is just so insensitive.BLOCKED and REPORTED!  Stay safe, everyone!For all the lip service given to POC in liberal feminism, they ignore how utterly difficult they make it for ESOL (English as a Second or Other Language) speakers. Many POC are ESOL speakers and modern politics is loaded with bloated, bloviating terminology. "People who assigned female at birth?" Jesus, I'm tired just reading it. You mean women?Yeah, it's hard enough to keep up with shifting and complex terminology when you are a native speaker, considering how quickly things change and how what is acceptable one day will become offensive the next.Like, I've seen AFAB, CAFAB (coercively, because you didn't consent I guess?), DFAB, and probably others I've forgotten about. Who can even keep track?I agree that Buzzfeed is often super annoying (holy crap I would have left an angry-ass comment on that article if I'd seen it!), but I just wanted to add (since it's not widely known) that Buzzfeed News (the one that's broken big political stories, etc) and Buzzfeed (the one that tells you what Friends character you're most like after you click on 5 different types of desserts) are separate organizations, with completely separate staff and writers/journalists. The two being conflated is one of the reasons Buzzfeed News often gets written off as not being a "real" news org, when in reality they've actually got some fantastic investigative journalists working for them and have broken some major news stories in recent years.And yes, this is mainly Buzzfeed's fault for not choosing a more different name for their legit news outlet spinoff team! Seriously, they're candidates for "poor branding choice of the century" with that one...I was just about to say this, thank you!Yeah, Vice & Vice News have this same problem.  Their news & documentaries are deep & thought-provoking...their articles are pure idiocy.That isnt even true though. Intersex people with complete androgen insensitivity will be assigned female at birth, but they dont have ovaries and can never get PCOS. Some people with congenital adrenal hyperplasia can be assigned male at birth, but have ovaries and so can have PCOS  I have CAH and almost none of us are assigned the opposite sex. You're seen as either female or male with a disorder of sexual development. It's pretty obvious I have a vagina, even if it looks slightly off.I've had to deal with a ton of shitty health problems because of this. I've never had a mental breakdown over my identity because I'm too busy making sure I balance my electrolytes and don't die. I have huge problems with maintaining sodium and potassium; I have zero problems with intake forms.You know what sucks way more than being misgendered? Seizures from critically low potassium.Or constant hospitalizations from low sodium/potassium or adrenal insufficiencies.Such tortured syntaxThe nurse's response seems to be pretty representative of how the average person actually feels about all this in my experience. Playing along because it's polite/required, but not actually believing any of it.I think it's helpful for women to speak up about shit that bothers us, because otherwise the Administrator Math works like this:1 Super Upset Genderspecial Person > 100 indifferent normiesAnd that's pretty fair, really; if something really really matters to a minority of people, and doesn't matter to everyone else, then why not just make the change to help out the minority group?  If most people think it's silly but it helps a small number of people feel better, why not play along?For those of us who feel that it's more than just silly, it's offensive, we have to be prepared to speak up enough that the Administrator Math changes:1 Super Upset Genderspecial Person < dozens of women who are insulted by the suggestion their cervix is an identityThis!! Like I'm not at the gyno because I feel female. I'm there to make sure there's no cancer growing on my cervix. Having female organs is not a gender role.u/thrwpllw  Your flair reminded me of that pivotal scene in The Crucible where John Proctor refuses to sully his good name. I see a lot of parallels between that play and this current trend.PROCTOR: You are the high court, your word is good enough! Tell them I confessed myself; say Proctor broke his knees and wept like a woman; say what you will, but my name cannotDANFORTH, with suspicion: It is the same, is it not? If I report it or you sign to it?PROCTOR, he knows it is insane: No, it is not the same! What others say and what I sign to is not the same!DANFORTH: Why? Do you mean to deny this confession when you are free?PROCTOR: I mean to deny nothing!DANFORTH: Then explain to me, Mr. Proctor, why you will not letPROCTOR, with a cry of his whole soul: Because it is my name! Because I cannot have another in my life! Because I lie and sign myself to lies! Because I am not worth the dust on the feet of them that hang! How may I live without my name? I have given you my soul; leave me my name!This.Oh, I hope so. I need hope.Last year I traveled with a friend to her appointment at a major/elite healthcare center in the US, one of the institutions considered the cream of the crop in the American medical world.We sat together while she used their iPad/digital device to complete their digital patient questionnaire. "Oh look," she said, "they're asking me about one of your favorite subjects." She handed the device to me. It was a full two digital pages asking about the patient's gender identity. It was the generic/universal questionnaire given to every patient, for any medical speciality/department, at registration.I suggested she type in answers similar to yours but she reported there was a low/strict character limit on answers and that some answers even limited one's responses to a selection from a drop-down menu (seems odd; wouldn't more rather than less info from the patient be encouraged?)While she completed the medical questionnaire, I looked about me. Most of the patients in the waiting room at this particular medical department had grey or white hair. I wondered how a 75+-year old woman or man must react to seeing evidence that the esteemed medical provider she or he relies on for lifesaving/preserving, research-driven healthcare subscribes to a quasi-spiritual philosophy such that the institution's literature and medical records systems are set up in accordance with that belief system.Were I applying to that institution for diagnosis or treatment, my confidence that they are the best and brightest in their field, informed by serious research, would plummet upon seeing their patient questionnaire.Another venerable institution bites the dust of trans activist ideology.It was a full two digital pages asking about the patient's gender identity. It was the generic/universal questionnaire given to every patient, for any medical speciality/department, at registration.Why two whole pages? Hormones should probably be listed with medications. What more would they need to ask then birth sex, pronouns, and a multiple choice about genitals?NBTwo things that stuck in my mind: they asked for Sex Assigned at Birth, and the many options under Gender Identity included "Transgender Female (Male to Female)" and "Transgender Male (Female to Male)."That was when I experienced the confidence plummet. One of the allegedly finest medical institutions in the world refers to the act of a healthcare provider delivering a baby and recording its sex as assigning a sex to a human being? And that institution also refers to men who wish to be women as "transgender females," as  if the word transgender is an adjective describing a type or subcategory of female? They endorse the framing of transgenderism as Male to Female and Female to Male, as if one's sex for medical purposes can actually change to another sex.These are the top medical doctors and researchers in a wealthy country? Terrifying.And all that extra information doesn't actually tell you anything. As we're well aware, a trans-identified male could be anywhere from medication-free and surgery-free to just meds/no surgery to post-operative and on a complex hormonal regimen. These details don't actually help the doctor make any relevant decisions because the category is functionally meaningless.Exactly! Its been screamed time and time again that all a man needs to do is say I am woman and BAM! Transgender female. Completely meaningless.Yeah, I heard that assigning is really only relevant to intersex patients. I highly doubt these new forms are helping with them.Because the ones who want to make everyone bow to their fantasy have all the money, so they'll make the institutions bow to their whims.They are completely useless. CAH is already in my chart, it's listed on the intake form as well. That's more than enough information to conclude that perhaps there might be an identity issue or incongruity with genitals and pronouns or whatever. But 90% of the time we're quite obviously male or female, our junk looks a little different but it varies extremely widely from person to person.I don't know why they went into such depth on the general New Patient registration questionnaire for all medical areas/specialties.I wasn't the one filling out the questionnaire so I did not take the time to read every question. The font was large, which takes up space. There were also many options to select from when answering the gender identity question; multiple permutations of sex+gender identity combinations were listed with radio buttons/tick boxes next to each.They also had a small/almost afterthought question about sexual orientation, which was, annoyingly, grouped in the same section as gender ID.Oh how nice, the rich AGP TIMs want to validate the Tumblr gender bandwagon.But the T belongs in LGBT because then they can't use liberal guilt about homophobia to move quickly /s.I can assure you right now that no medical/science staff were involved in creating that form.It would have been some wooly brained administration manager who pushed it up the chain as being necessary and important. Probably achieved after 30 separate meetings about inclusivity.When we (medical staff) read those forms we are basically looking for "red flags" in patient history. No one cares about pronouns, especially at a large hospital.I've seen what happens usually with this staff. Any deviation from normal people and usually someone just places "patient is transgender" in the notes to the great annoyance of medical staff trained overseas.They think that opposing this stuff is "white feminism"? They should hear how people from outside the USA talk about it.  Are you seriously saying that some of us are noted as being transgender in our histories? Without our knowledge?Who the fuck do physicians think they are? Why has power gone to their heads to such a degree that they carelessly write such harmful, incorrect shit in people's medical history?I've been fighting to correct the outright lies in my med history for years, to no avail. It says I have two living children. I ask the staff how old they are and what their names are, because I've never met them. It also says I use chewing tobacco, which I don't. I stopped smoking 5 years ago and have never used chew.So it's really fucking frustrating that people have so much power over my life. I get worse treatment because of the awful fucking notes physicians put in my record based on rumors and opinions. None of it is factual, in fact the vast majority of it is lies told by my NPD mother I cut contact with. She told them all kinds of insane things about me that were untrue, and it still affects my care to this day. The administration only let's you correct one thing at a time and it takes months of paperwork and phone calls.So I'm really quite fucking furious that this is happening. I'm fucking angry at how much power those stupid little notes have over our lives. I'm angry that we're not allowed to change obvious untruths in our records. I'm fucking FURIOUS that medical professionals can chose to exclude information when you request your records. That shouldn't be an option EVER.And now this bullshit is happening. So even MORE lies and shitty harmful rumors in our records. How the fuck can women get appropriate treatment when physicians use the note section to gossip and talk shit about the patient?No, if you fill out the form saying  anything like "I identify as transgender" or any of the weird pronouns then you will be marked as transgender in your notes. Just like we note smoking history, age, sex and what we have spoken about/done during your visit.It's not gossip, they're called progress notesThe rest of your comment is irrelevant and quite frankly, an overreaction to what was said.If you're talking about the Mayo Clinic, I'm not surprised. Everyone that lives here knows it's a joke. They only care about the sickest and most extreme cases that they can research and publish about. If you're a young woman that suspects she has an invisible chronic illness steer clear of the Mayo.  My dad is retired and does consultation work now to keep himself occupied. His last project was a presentation for a Gov agency and he had to take a 2 day "gender sensitivity" course as part of his contract. He told me it was as stupid as you'd imagine.TWO DAYS.Oh my god, fuck off. TWO DAYS for something entirely unrelated to his actual work? Are they funding that for every contractor? Has anyone calculated the cost? Even a two-hour compulsory course on this bullshit would be annoying but two fucking days. You can learn actual useful skills in that time!!!My dad specializes in agriculture too so it's really fucking stupid.Well, he can't very well go around calling flowers staminate or pistillate without asking them how they identify, can he??heheheheThis is the kind of quality content I like to see on reddit.Two days seems incredibly excessive when the information boils down to If its a dude wearing lipstick call him a lady or we will get sued.I've been through some agonizing mandatory presentations myself. But halfway through the first day of gender nonsense would have me seriously recalculating whether or not I needed the money.He wanted to sit through it to have a "full perspective", as he put it, so he can tell people off. My dad is awesome.This is actually a bigger moment and turning point in history. We have officially given control of the asylum to the inmates. They have proven they can get us to accept the most ridiculous, anti-science conclusions masquerading as science just so that we don't look mean.It is downhill from here. It really is. In Rules for Radicals and Art of War it says to push until resistance and never give back ground.Seriously, we have to get over our allergy to being mean.Allergies are all in the mind, Lemon.The ref. I love your pronouns answer so very much.This is a template we all could follow!I would just write WOMAN in huge letters across the entire section, I ain't got time for their crap!They validate them there, that's what they doWe validate your parking and your gender, too!lolllI'm really glad you did this.  I know someone who works at a software firm that shall remain nameless that is dominant in the medical chart biz and my understanding from them is that trans crap is originating with the software company - not the medical establishment.  Again, trans in IT imposing this.Yeah they pat themselves on the back for sneaking it in and being soooo progressiveMakes sense; it seems like a lot of TIMs work in the IT field.I know someone who works at a software firm that shall remain nameless that is dominant in the medical chart biz and my understanding from them is that trans crap is originating with the software company - not the medical establishment. Again, trans in IT imposing this.That's very interesting, thanks.While I can imagine a small solo doctor's office accepting and passing on to its patients without amendment the questionnaire provided them by the outside company, it's harder for me to believe that a large institution like a hospital or medical research center wouldn't have a panel of its own physicians look over and approve the forms before distributing to patients.it's harder for me to believe that a large institution like a hospital or medical research center wouldn't have a panel of its own physicians look over and approve the forms before distributing to patients.We do.If the form didn't ask the right  relevant questions it would've been scrapped.These kinds of demographic questions are essentially useless for medicine and important only to administrators and bureaucrats for data points. That's why no one from the medical side seemingly cares. You might get the odd person fill out it out and deviate from normal but you also get patients who refuse to fill out forms because "You should know this already! I've been coming to this hospital for the past five years!" and for other sorts of idiotic reasons.Knowing your pronouns is about as relevant in medicine as knowing your mothers name was "Glenda".You'd be surprised at how stupid and oblivious hospital admin can be. They have much different goals they have to meet. They're basically at total odds with the actual medical staff.YEP. They changed the online MyChart patient portal in the last few months. They removed some features I regularly used--features that were incredibly useful for someone like me with complicated and chronic health issues-- and added a huge section where you can fill out all your gender accoutrement preferences.They also changed it so the menu has huge childish buttons with pictures instead of a drop down list. That has nothing to do with gender, but I'm already ranting about the stupid website changes so whatever. I'm annoyed with it because it's hard for me to read (I prefer lists due to autism, the big buttons are confusing and difficult to parse).I fucking love the MyChart program online. I'm disabled and sometimes housebound due to complications so the website was really awesome for contacting my team with questions or requests. It's becoming substantially less awesome with all these changes. They've taken away a huge amount of functionality in favor of endless forms about gender identity.That doesn't help housebound patients plan their care better by facilitating easier and clearer communication with their team, it does the exact fucking opposite. I guarantee the people making these decisions didn't consider a housebound disabled person's needs at all when they planned these changes.It's like, how many fucking marginalized groups do trans people have to harm and destroy before their rage is satisfied? The answer is all of them, and then some more.They're emotional black holes. They suck up all the praise and apologies and emotional labor and give nothing back. They suck up resources for women and other marginalized groups, feeding until we're dried out husks, then moving onto the next victim because they're emotional vampires that never feel full.I got one at the dermatologist. It's trying to be woke but it doesn't even make sense from a TRA standpoint (to them, the first 4 choices are synonymous). I chose other and wrote that I don't identify as anything but simply am a biological woman.http://imgur.com/8oSOSLgI wish all women would do what you did!Hilarious. Ive been getting my gyno care at PP. Im pretty sure I didnt see more than a passing reference to gender identity on a form last time I was there, but given the way theyve drunk the trans Kool-Aid its only a matter of time. Maybe I should look into going somewhere else.Wait a minute...I have a question.Are transwomen really interested in going to a GYN? Is this a thing? After going through all that trouble to get a vagina, they want a metal speculum inserted into it on purpose?Is there a legit reason for a gyn visit post-op?All right, so it's more than one question, but the first one generated so many others.i'm not a medical practitioner, but there are several reasons why it would be appropriate to go:-they need prescriptions for their hormones, and these hormones have likely caused breast development (so breast related issues, like cancer screening)-they are likely sexually active (STD screening)now, it remains they have likely retained their prostate (which helps penetrative sex remain pleasurable) so i'm not sure if the gyns also perform that exam (easy enough but probably an atypical procedure for most ob/gyns) or if they go to a urologist (which is where they would definitely end up if there is a problem).I mean, would an OBGYN really be the best person to talk to about their hormones? Aren't there specialists who would be better suited?They would likely see an endo for that, I thinkAn endo isnt as validating.Yeah, an OGBYN will certainly know about hormone treatments to varying degrees and depending on specialty, but ultimately an endocrinologist would be the best person for maintenance, right? cross sex hormonal management of transgender people is totally different than hormone management for women's health. But of course women's health specialists MUST also devote their time and continuing education to male issues (or trying to turn women into men). One of my friends from high school just signed some stupid letter to the north american midwives association asking for them to make HRT a core competency. It's honestly gross to me that women's health specialists should learn how to manage hormones that sterilize and ultimately cause massive health problems for women (TIFs).Excess testosterone in women is a health problem. It's not progressive, it's called PCOS.Yes, endocrinologists.Just a PSA to women having hormonal issues: your PCP will probably refer you to an OBGYN, but unless you have plans to get pregnant in the near future, that's an inappropriate referral.Always, always, always see an endocrinologistif you have hormone issues. Sex hormones interact with and affect so many hormones, not just other sex hormones but pretty serious stuff in the body.OBGYNs aren't trained in this. They only focus on sex hormones, and basically only if you have pregnancy in mind. They aren't well trained on hormones or how they interact with the body. That's 100% endocrinology.I saw OBGYNs for almost a decade with no relief or results. I was often dismissed, told that hormones have zero effect on mood or the rest of the body, or told they refuse to treat me unless I wanted to get pregnant. ALL of that bullshit ended the day I saw an endocrinologist. She saved me from insanity, she saved my fucking life, and I thank whatever God exists that she was there for me.They also go because it validates them.good point!I think after SRS they could also get infections that require similar treatment to those women might get (yeast infections etc)? I know the NHS is sending out PAP smear reminders to TIMs who have changed their sex on official documents. I'm sure some of them go.Ummm but you do a pap smear on a cervixlol exactlyNo, they don't get yeast infections because that's a particular flora found in vaginas. They have 24/7 bacterial vaginosis, or BV. When the flora from neo-vaginas is tested they've found bacteria that's associated with BV. (this actually makes sense because many times when women have chronic BV it's because of the bacteria on their partner's penis)I'm not sure how they would treat it. The gel probably wouldn't work, it's super ineffective compared to the metronidazole pill, but you seriously can't drink at all (you get super bad vomiting, I tried it) when you take it so many people choose the gel.I have an acquaintance whose an OB/GYN and quit her practice to become a hospital admin., for lots of reasons but also partly because of some unpleasant experiences with TIMs.That's so sadI read an opinion article recently that mentioned that men are showing up to OBGYN appointments regularly now because they think they are women. Imagine being the doctor in that situation. Ummm I like totally want to affirm your gender and what not cause YOU ARE VALID!!! But you dont have a vagina so I literally cant help you... and then the person freaks out about transphobiaI wonder how many female (and male) doctors have been forced to capitulate to this testeria and handle cock n balls so that people dont attempt to ruin their medical practice for hate crimes aka noticing biological reality as a DOCTORVery very weird that the medical community just goes along with all of this.Were these questions put on the form for trans men or female transsexuals? I cant really see why a male transsexual would need the gyno.Don't know and exactly.Maybe the questions are for TIFs and enbies...women who "identify" as a male or "neither".But the questions were specifically asking about birth sex.. at an OBGYN..  where we should all be female.True lolI know, and I'm not supporting it. Just pointing out that they also have to cater to TIFs...which is where you get the "but some men" crap. I think there are also TIM's that go to gynecologists as part of their fetish...makes them "feel" more like a woman or whatever.  I imagine the eyerolls are the same at the proctologist's office as well.Edit: because im not too brightWhy at the proctologists office? They see men and women.Thinking of prostate.  My badI was given something similar at the dr recently. Here is my response https://imgur.com/VK3jdwzWhen I started seeing a new primary care doctor last year (who had a private practice) that was the first and only time I've come across it with a doctor. It ended up sort of awkward.First it said the "Sex Assigned at Birth" and the options were woman, man or neither... which was a mess because of the assigned part and not using male or female. I circled woman because it wasn't like I was trying to debate stuff right then. Then it was circle your pronouns. I circled she. Then it had "Gender Identity: (blank space)" and since I was sick, at that point I left it blank and asked my husband what else they wanted? He read the form and asked why it said assigned instead of observed.When the doctor and I were talking and going over everything - she was super thorough with all over it - she noticed that part being blank and asked what my gender identity was. I asked what that even meant.Apparently, that space what meant for me to describe something like "how you would identify if you were traveling through the world but without your body and how you would experience that?" So then I was like... I experience the world through my body, is this about like astral projection? Then she switched to if you could choose any person to be, who would it be and I just told her that I actually like myself and appreciate my body. Which seemed to answer the question?It was weird. Even weirder because she was an osteopath.And also, does this osteopath treat ghosts? Who else travels the world without their body?Yeah... I was soooo lost at that point. Since she seemd to just want to fill in a box and I was really sick and barely slept that week, at first it seemed like maybe I didn't get it. The awkward silences made it clear she wasn't sure what she was asking either but that in our age group, it sort of expected or something. She was really caring and seemed to know what was what with most conditions and medications which made that so much more random and weird. Maybe a bit socially unaware though lolHaha who was a full-fledged woman at birth???  Ive only seen forms like this  for the LSAT  and at the womens clinic so ugh but ya I would fill them out minimally and just leave stupid stuff blankTHEY: [agender on form] "Doc, I have blood coming out of my genitals! Should I be concerned?"DOCTOR: "Uhhh...."Like if there's one person who should be concerned with what genitals a person has, it's a gynecologist.Haha right?Not all heroes wear capes... Sometimes they wear paper gowns with open backsides!Thank you for posting this.Hero. It's so refreshing to hear the truth in your answers. I pledge to do the same if (really, when) I'm faced with a similar form.I see that you deleted your account (so brave!) but also trans "guys" are there to have their female genitalia looked at. That is what the office is for. If said individuals are taking cross-sex hormones, surely they will list those in the "medications" section of the form. Other than calling them "sir" versus "ma'am," I'm not sure how signifying a gender identity is relevant. (My doctor calls me by my name. Whether my name is "Carl" or whatnot doesn't change the fact that I'm there for a pap smear.)I was talking about male people. AKA trans "women." Why would they be there.Still female.Trans identified females are women. Their sex is female, their "gender" doesn't play any role in an appointment to get their vagina checked out.Maybe they do; maybe they don't. But they can indicate SRS in the "surgical history" section of the form and T in the "medications" section, as applicable.But wait.. they don't have functioning vaginas? What does that mean? Does it like close up and grow cobwebs?No, hes deliberately misunderstanding TiF to mean man in a dress, not woman on T.Ahhhhh. Well I don't think there's much an OBGYN can do for that kind of "non-functional" vagina.I think this dude thinks they're like the open wounds Tim's get for life and need to be dialated daily to not close up and "stop working". Ah another male who doesn't understand female anatomy.There apparently is an option for TIFs to have their vaginas sewn up, although it seems to be about as common as phalloplasty, which hardly any TIFs get.Good to know... I've got stuff I like in there but if it's causing them dysphoria, I say go for it.  That's a broad brush you're painting with. Plenty of tims got functioning dicks, we'd know as we get told to suck them often.This is absolutely fucked. I can't believe this is the world we live inThank you so much for posting this using the archive link and following Rule 8.Read the rules then.But you get threatened with rape or harassment and nothing happens to the men if you complain.Fucking sexist bullshit, again and again.But they only want to pee!/sWe are literally seeing women in jail for refusing to allow men to define womanhood in terms of their feelings.So, uh, lemme get this straight, you an get arrested for.... misgendering someone on the internet.  Which amounts to.  Nothing.  But straight and trans people alike can literally say rapey shit like "lesbians can learn to like dick" and that's... A-OK?  Thousands of people can literally fantasize about raping a specific group of people and that's fine?  Jfc.(Edit:  this is not hyperbole, i've literally seen people do this.)  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.  edited 57 minutes agoI don't mean any disrespect, but this is so insane it's hard to believe that it is even real.This sounds straight out of pornography, or some kind of erotica. Her husband got the idea to do this from there. The fantasy of having your wife get fucked by multiple men (and especially doing acts that the husband personally is not allowed to do) is very common.How horrible. I hope he goes to jail.I wonder, are there ever any warning signs that somebody is going to act out in this way? It's scary to think he probably just acted normal.For the posters sake and my own, I hope to God that this is fake. But somehow, I dont think it is :(I wonder, are there ever any warning signs that somebody is going to act out in this way?There usually are. This video talks about the psychology of abuse, patterns of predators, etc.Although I feel like men abuse women regularly and the idea of this doesn't surprise me at all. Either she was in an abusive relationship with gaslighting and moving the abuse to be a little more and more extreme, or this was made up.Predators just don't work this way. Otherwise they will be caught and prosecuted, which is what they obviously don't want.It was incredibly important for me to be in an abusive relationship with a sociopath to actually see and understand the knowledge about abuse and the psychology revolving it. Regularly they will push past your boundaries to make you uncomfortable to see how you react. This can be standing too close to you, joking in an inappropriate way, pushing past sexual boundaries, not listening to "no", etc. It takes SO. many. forms. And 'good' victims will reply meekly, or not say anything to avoid a confrontation, avoid escalating a situation, avoid embarrassment or being seen as a bitch.However, if you react strongly and aggressively, usually the boundary pushing will stop. For at least a few months.The fact that this post doesn't talk about any kind of boundary pushing in the past (and actually talks about "what a good marriage they had" seems red flag worthy. A predator is not with a healthy partner that has strong boundaries and will run to police, that's just not how this shit usually works. I wouldn't necessarily be surprised if a situation like this happens, and this could very well be real with information left out... however, the fact that she has the mental wherewithal to post on reddit the entire story, and after getting legal advice, locks herself in the bathroom and calls the police... just seems fishy and doesn't fit with any predatory behavior or abusive behavior.For example, a few days ago about te story about the IUD being ripped out of the woman  seems like perfect predator/abusive relationship 101 with the partner including how great her husband actually is and how she doesn't want to get him in trouble. I think skepticism with anonymous reddit posts is really important, (but in-person victims it's imperative to support the victim), and I am thoroughly skeptical.34 minutes ago  edited 8 minutes agoThank you for the video and descriptive reply!I must say though, I think you are being quick to assume the story is untrue.  The woman might just be having an unusual response to this abuse.Why is it necessary to tear down her story?  While it is an anonymous Reddit post and should be taken at that level, you are tearing into it like any woman's rape story is torn into.  "She wouldn't have acted like THAT."  That type of language doesn't help anyone, and is used against victims daily.  So warning about skepticism is fine but don't go acting like you know what is legit and what isn't.  I have been in an abusive situation, too.  Not all situations are like mine, nor will every situation mirror yours.    You aren't a detective, and if you were, I doubt you would be on here.  edited 2 minutes agoNo. But I don't think I was talking out of my ass about "she wouldn't have acted like THAT" I think there was a lot of great information about the psychology of abuse. I think there are patterns that we can see, from my friends who have been abused, and working with sex trafficking, there ARE patterns. And the fact of the matter is that DV is incredibly hard to prosecute for a reason (because of the patterns that usually occur). But you're right, if this is real this is going to be an open a shut case, especially because her update said that she's following what she should be doing.I'm just saying that I think education on what usually happens and how abuse is well-known to occur, with a great source from a criminal psychologist, is very informative, and education is power.eta: I also don't think that thisWhile it is an anonymous Reddit post and should be taken at that level, you are tearing into it like any woman's rape story is torn intois fair. I talk about how believing women (in real life) is imperative.I guess I am on edge with hard to believe stories like this because 1. it doesn't fit into the psychology of abuse and 2. I just talked to someone in psych warfare and some of her stories of how different nations cause rifts in society include unconscionable fear, and the fact that people could become fearful that regular everyday people can do this, isnt okay.And I am someone who has a HEAVY fear of men in general and normally immediately believe survivors. This just doesn't fit with ANY predatory behavior. But again, if it is real, it's going to be super easy on the detectives.If I didn't have a sense for how sadistic and cruel men tend to be, I'd be temped to think this was fake.However, I've actually read multiple accounts from women at different times in various places in print and on the internet that are just as horrifying as this, and include all these elements. Men who rape their wives on their wedding night, men who act out violent porn fantasies on their partners, men who gang rape women and laugh and joke with each other as they do it, men who assault their girlfriends and then call them a liar when the police show up.Whether or not this particular story is true, it fits so well into the pattern of men's behavior that I know that I feel it doesn't really matter if it's made up. And for people who question why someone would make a reddit post asking for advice on this: I've seen so many women post on this very sub asking for advice on how to deal with men who have abused them. I don't think for a second that all these women were lying, so why should it be any different here.23 minutes agoGod thank you for saying this. You put it way better than I could have. It doesnt matter if this situation specifically is a lie because it has definitely happened hundreds, thousands, millions of times throughout history to women. This is how men behaveVery disappointing that many women here are talking about how fake this isHow about in a womens space we default to believing victims of sexual assault for once? Its not like this sort of thing is even uncommon. Women get gang raped all the time and domestic partners are the most likely ones to commit violence against a woman. Its not a stretch whatsoeverIt's not about believing the woman. It's about whether the post itself was a fabrication or not. There are a lot of trolls operating in subs like legal advice and relation advice that get off on causing drama. They are basically trolls who are skilled at fiction writing. Not saying the story can't be true; it could be. I'm just saying that it looks kind of fake. I mean even the responseIt still feels unreal, I thought we had a good marriage.comes off as fake. I mean, how would it not feel unreal after one has just been raped? The idea that a woman would just 'walk it off' within a day or two seems like something that comes from the psyche of a male fiction writer who has no concept of what rape does to victims.Well reality felt unreal to me after I was raped and it wasnt my husband who did itI really dont fucking get your point, at all. So weirdos potentially writing fiction about plausible scenarios and bringing attention to the seriousness of sexual assault (whether or not inadvertently) means we should vehemently disbelieve a potential sexual assault survivor? This shit is COMMON.Yep. Believing in-person victims is imperative. But I think it's healthy and good media-literacy to recognize that people instigate things on the internet all the time for various reasons. We can be skeptical and still support victims IRL.Partners are also unlikely to call the cops and usually there is an escalation to events that occurs before some bat-shit porn fantasy pops up.DV abuse is important to understand and it's important to understand the psychology of abuse and predators. This does seem like a stretch for various reasons.The IUD being ripped out of a woman the other day, however, was not. It was classic DV and predatory behavior with the woman not wanting to listen to advice because she wanted to protect her husband. There are real victims that seek out support on reddit, but I think we need better media literacy when it comes to the internet, and skepticism with cases and stories like this is healthy.27 minutes agoAre you indirectly calling me media illiterate? Did you take COM101 last semester?This subreddit gets righteously angry at so many injustices women face but when an individual woman and not the bbc is reporting a horrifying experience suddenly its so important that we call her out as a fake? Why? Why is it not more important to empathize with the victim? I dont see it as a stretch at all because these things happen. And abuse victims arent likely to tell a bunch of strangers about long histories of abuse. Something really awful happened and I highly doubt nothing led up to it but of course thats what an abuse victim is going to say.I am always going to side with a victim. Because there is definitely a no zero chance that this situation is real. Calling her a liar only benefits those of us sitting safe at home who dont want to believe that this shit happens every day.  edited 12 minutes agoAre you indirectly calling me media illiterate? Did you take COM101 last semester?I wasn't, but if that feels like you, then you do you, boo.Calling her a liarI never did. I said that we should be skeptical and I also shared a lot about the psychology of abuse, which I think is important to talk about. Because you're right. DV does happen and men regularly abuse women.My point is that: "skepticism with cases and stories like this is healthy."I would never responded to her thread and NOT tell her the appropriate channels to go through after suffering like she did, because you're right, it may be real.But again, skepticism is healthy, and talking about that amongst ourselves and talking about the psychology of abuse and how abuse happens and the boundary pushing that occurs, I think is super important.Why? Why is it not more important to empathize with the victim?We can empathize with the knowledge that this happens, without taking on an anonymous reddit thread's pain and fear that this is how abuse happens. Because psychology shows... that it's not. Abuse, especially stuff on this magnitude doesn't happen out of the blue like this, unless it's a stranger, unless is sex trafficking, etc. But all of those things have warning signs and how she is regarding her husband and her marriage, doesn't seem like that.I have also dealt with tons of abuse, a lot of my friends who started fighting suffered from abuse, one of my friends actually shot her husband and was in a DV situation for a LONG time and talks about abuse, and works in DV shelters now and shares tons of information. I have worked with sex trafficking victims... that thread just isn't how it usually happens without an EASY prosecution... and there are reasons why DV is super hard to put abusers behind bars.Edit: thanks for the edit without the tag.Did you take COM101 last semester?I am a grown women and haven't been in school for ten years, but I did just talk to a woman who did russian psych warfare and it's really fascinating what gets put on the internet and reinvigorated my skepticism for random, not journalistic stories.2 minutes agoI didnt edit the post with or without a tag, and fuck off with your pet name bullshit.Yes, it may be real. That is my whole point. And just because a victim didnt express a history of abuse does not mean 1. that there wasnt one or 2. that abuse doesnt always happen without a history. Ask yourself why you are investing so much time in arguing that we should be skeptical about stories regarding sexual abuse. Because Im not buying that whatsoever. Women around the world face skepticism about their abuse enough; we dont have to add to it in a fucking radical feminist sub.11 minutes agoExcuse me?! Abuse victims absolutely WILL speak about long histories of abuse to strangers, I AM one and have and Reddit has a support sub full of survivors of childhood abuse who tell their stories, it's a freakin part of healing. You don't speak for all abuse victims or survivors, and in your own severe rudeness and condescension, did you take ABUSE VICTIMS AND TRAUMA 101 last semester?!7 minutes agoIm simply saying Im not surprised that the woman did not divulge a long history of abuse during her post, given that the person I was responding to was commenting that her lack of abuse history made her story less likely.I was not intending to make a categorical statement that abuse victims never speak about their trauma and I apologize if you gleaned that perception from what I said.Wow if you think this sort of thing doesnt happen to women all over the earth you are very shelteredWomen get gang raped all the time and many violent sex crimes are facilitated/committed by intimate partners. For all we know the friends paid the husband for access to his wifes body.I really hope it's fake (I do find it odd someone traumatized like that would be on reddit first thing), but I agree, the bar for the worst in people seem to never end being brought lower. We have parents who pimp out their children, a man doing the above to to his wife isn't unbelievable to me.If it's true, I hope the wife gets a chance to cut off the guy's dick.Yeah this happens, but it generally happens where the women dont have access to a smartphone to make a reddit post about it... or it is being done by the super rich, who just order an orphan online or from their Hollywood buddies.59 minutes agoThats some bullshit. Women of all economic classes experience sexual assault at the hands of partners. In addition many economically destitute people have smartphones - they are practically a necessity in the western world.Gang raped by their husband with zero warning and with all the guys joining in not once wondering if this was ok, all having their faces witnessed and laughing about it. I guess you could explain further but your post was cut off by one of those roving rape gangs that come into your house every 20mins.34 minutes agoAre you one of those people who watches news reports about rape victims and demands proof or it didnt happen? Did you empathize with kavanaugh and his beloved calendar?Gang rape is a thing... not sure what the fuck youre alleging here like rape gangs are some highly unusual circumstance. Wake up. Men rape women nonstop, 24/7, all over the world. Sometimes the woman they rape is their wife or daughter or sister or BABY or friend of a friend. The fact that it was people who knew her in this story actually makes it more believable for me. Again, not rare.I wish I had your optimism. Men are routinely fine with gang-rape. Their victims are often screaming, crying, and blacking out. Even making a reddit post isn't that weird. It's validating to hear, "Yes, you've been wronged. Yes, you have a case. Go to the cops," from a bunch of lawyers (read: authority figures on the justice system).39 minutes agoA gang rape happened at my high school to a blacked out girl and the guys passed the video around to their friends. Everyone saying this is not uncommon are completely correct.59 minutes agoCouldnt agree more.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Have you heard of loli/lolicon? That is really messed up...From what I have read, anime simplifies human emotion so much so that people who watch too much of it or read too much manga are unable to relate to real humans.I know this because an ex friend of mine is obsessed with anime. He used to watch some anime series not just once, but three or four times and he couldn't get into real movies/series. I stopped being his friend when I found out he had a groomed a girl when she was 13 and he was 17 (shes 19 now). This might seem unrelated to most people, but I think people who watch anime or too much anime have serious issues.I found out that a lot of guys i used to be friends with were into loli/shota and acted as if it were just another fetish, like nah bro if youre masturbating to the bodies of children, thats pedophilia.I can actually see that, I enjoyed it because I love sci-fi/fantasy stuff, you can do so much with animation that live action cant do yet. But its impossible to separate the negatives from the (very few) positives, imo.And that is so fucked, i believe its likely related. There are too many instances of exactly what you described for it to be coincidence. Im glad you dont have to deal with someone like that in your life, although i imagine it was a difficult thing to deal with.It was difficult for me at the time..I couldn't eat and ended up losing weight since I was so disgusted, and it didn't even happen to me. I just felt bad for the girl and felt disgusted I came into contact with a man like that, even though the only physical contact we had was an accidental graze, I still feel horrible.Im sorry that happened, i understand what you mean though. The knowledge that people like that even exist is nauseating and too much to think about sometimes, knowing them personally, even a little, is one of the worst feelings.Umm, there is anime that is male gazey, has wish fulfillment, or has tons of fanservice, but its a medium, and basically any medium has these to a greater or lesser extent.There is also anime that has complex political or philosophical commentary like Ergo Proxy, Neon Genesis, Legend of The Galactic Heroes, Psycho Pass, Shinsekai Yori, and ghost in the Shell.No anime doesnt oversimply human interaction simply by virtue of the medium. Lots of anime does have terrible writing, which is exacerbated by Japanese culture (see subway groping etc). However, lots of anime is well written and no more problematic than a western animation or television series.I agree with you to an extent. I take issue with not only a lot of the medium but the culture around it. The medium by itself is one thing but it can create a really toxic environment that deserves to be confronted as much as any other.The majority of the anime I watched was stuff like NGE and Akira, which is why I didnt realize there was an entire culture surrounding anime (esp the more recent stuff) that glorifies the male gaze as well as rape/pedophilia.  edited 57 minutes agoI agree and think this is important to remember. Anime is just a medium. It is influenced by cultural values as all products of culture are, but it still remains a medium and anything anyone desires can be injected into a medium. E: Why was I downvoted into the negatives but not the comment I responded to?but I think people who watch anime or too much anime have serious issuesDoes this include Japanese people? Anime is a medium made by Japanese people in Japanese with Japanese people as the primary target audience.i interpreted this as more of a general statement of the weeb culture that permeates a lot of online/real life spaces. Adult men shouldnt be calling  children their waifus or consuming pornography of them :(Im referring to western people in this caseJapan has serious issues.They only outlawed child porn in 2014 and their government is shit to women.That said, I like some anime. I wish there was an editing option to remove or censor certain things in the media you want to watch. Something where it describs the story but can remove sexual violence, gore, alcohol, drugs, physical violence, car crashes, turnips...whatever you don't want but still have the story. There would always be an option to have a verbal description of what you are missing and to watch the original feature.I mean, I like gore and horror and sexual violence in stories when they build things up. I also used tl really like media that was just horrible because I felt like it made me tougher.I do not like children seeing it or it hurting people who may have recently gone through something horrible. I do not like the idea that some grown ass man with too much money gets to lay the foundation for the stories and expectations the next generation has.As a manga reader and an anime watcher, it's been increasingly frustrating. I've found myself growing significantly more picky with what I consume, even more so after encountering radical feminism. A lot of the radfem writings and commentary put words to things that I've been feeling and have been unsure about, and it's a huge relief to discover it all. As I've grown older, I've noticed I've been giving fanservice and things less of a pass, mostly because I understand more of its awfulness, but also because I'm just so fucking tired of it all after so long and after so much. My standards for what I'm willing to spend time on have risen. I'm glad for it, but it still sucks to have to weed through even more trash in hopes of something good.Oh my god I feel you, if im being honest my disillusionment with anime was kind of one of the first things to set me onto the radfem path. Id always considered myself a feminist but speaking out about certain things I found terrible and having other feminists shout me down was a huge eye opener.I know there have got to be decent shows/manga out there somewhere, theres just soooo much garbage and the culture around it seems to keep getting more and more debased.All anime characters I've seen as Twitter profile pics or memes look really young. The anime girls making "ahegao" faces look young. As in like no older than 12. I don't like how childish they look.Youre right. Even the characters who are supposedly adults look too much like children.I'd advice change of companyMen being bad and leeching as they are become just impossible when they're anime fans, for some reasonI agree, I only have one guy friend now lmao and he doesnt like anime. I prefer close friendships with women anyway so it wasnt a huge loss.I really don't get anime, and I've tried to like it or see the appeal. Even the ones that aren't creepy and are mainly for kids get a bad rap because of creepy adult males. People say anime is just adult cartoons like the American ones but with a different art style, eh idk, it just seems odd to me. It's fucking cringey and weird most of the time. So much anime seems to focus on very sexualized young teens as the main characters, yet it's target audience seems to be adult men.. Adult men who obsess over the young anime girls. Like I've never really seen adult men obsessed with characters from stuff like American Dad, Family Guy, Archer, King of the Hill, etc, pretty much any other American adult cartoons. Idk what my point is, I'm just kinda rambling..I started to refuse to even be friends with people who watch anime (or at least talk about it in my vacinity). Every single one turns out to have fucked up ideas they got from anime. Im tired of hearing anime is so broad its a medium yeah well 99% of it is disgusting trash, throw it all away I say!No, I like studio gibli.I mean would you say that people should throw away all film because porn exists?I get that lots of people are weird about it but that doesn't mean all of the stories need to go to the garbage.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.I don't know how leftists didn't go to hell much sooner being that uncritical and conforming. Turns out, identifying as progressive doesn't actually make you one  I think the free and open internet has fucked them up a lot, because it's made their psychotic quest for total conformity all the more apparent.Lots of us commies came here after being banned from leftbook. I left before they could ban me because the misogyny was making me sick.Tbh I kinda like it when that's one of their test questions because I immediately know I will not enjoy being in that groupSamesies. I dip out if they ask stupid shit like that when requesting to join. I am not gonna pretend men are women in a fucking communist group.In two groups I've recently tried to join the first test question was "trans women are women. Yes or no?" even though the groups had nothing to do with gender. It's like pledging to the flag or something.There are two sexes.Gender =/= sex.Do you mean Facebook?  Leftbook refers to the left wing side of facebook.Leftists gave up on fighting the Right, and are now content with symbolic parody and "subversion", as if that's going to make any difference.  Harris aggressive record on online exploitation could pose a problem with two core Democratic constituencies: civil libertarians, who serve as an ideological validator inside the party, and the tech industry, which has served as a cultural one  not to mention the major fundraising power of Silicon Valley.I do think these constituencies are major players in the pro-porn, pro-prostitution, pro-genderism-anti-feminism push of the current American Left."the tech industry" "cultural [validator]" - yeah right, MEN'S CULTURE.  To think a bunch of emotionally stunted machine lovers are driving the CULTURE today....bastards.Its true. That industry is right up there with construction when it comes to being a welcoming environment to women (ie: not at all)Couldn't agree moreImagine being against exploitation. I'm trying to wonder how people even think they have the moral high ground with those platforms.A lot of them and their organizations are on the take, like the ACLU, from the porn lobby.  "Civil libertarians" are nothing but bullshitters just like the economic ones.  They are total human shit and are opposed to the human rights of women and girls.Libertarians are wrong about every single issue because actions have consequences for others and for society as a whole.This isn't the "current American left."  This has been THE left since the late 1960s.  The male left has always despised women.  The only "right" they care about when it comes to women is the "right" to unrestricted sexual access to women and girls.The tech industry is also funded by Saudi money. Not sure if any of it is strings free.Honestly if she played this up in the campaign I'd be more likely to vote for her.This and Harris opposing TIMs transitioning in prison make her the front runner for me. Im sure shell fall in line with the Dems trans worship (at least publicly), but, at this point, the only Democrats Ill enthusiastically support are those I think wont be shy to reverse course when it becomes clear to everyone that the TRM is a penis rights movement. In comparison, the true believers will hang on to the bitter end.  I agree.Harris has a very bad record on criminal justice. Instead if criticizing that we're supposed to be angry that backpage is down and that men can't access women's prisonsExcellent article!!Thanks for sharing this. It was a really good read. My mom had a heart attack around 35. One of her arteries just collapsed. The doctors were horrible, which was probably compounded due to her being Black. First, they refused to believe she wasn't a drug addict and ran multiple drug tests refusing to believe the results. They gave her some kind of medicine (I can't remember the details at the time) bc they didn't believe it was a hear attack which caused another heart attack. She actually flat lined and is one of those cases where she was "brought back." I believe this was all due to the carelessness, sexism, and racism she experienced from her doctors in the ER. Everything did work out, she had surgery and has a stint to replace her artery. After all this, I was terrified of having one too so I read up on heart attacks and found that everything the medical community knows about heart attacks applies to men. The stress test included. When women have heart attacks, they have mini ones first, but it's usually written off or ignored.Text:By Haider Warraich, M.D.Feb. 1, 2019How One Woman Changed What Doctors Know About Heart AttacksThe story of SCAD underscores how much doctors still dont understand, including about heart disease in women.Katherine Leon was 38 and living in Alexandria, Va., when she gave birth to her second son in 2003. She was discharged from the hospital, but instead of getting better, she recalls, she kept feeling worse and worse and worse.Five weeks after she had her child, Ms. Leons husband came back early from work and found her barely able to breathe."I hate to use the word panic, because so many people say if its a woman she is just having a panic attack, but I was terrified, she said.Her husband called 911, and she was taken to the emergency room where, after a few tests, the physicians told her there was nothing wrong with her. She went home but continued to have bouts of chest pain and kept laboring to breathe.Things came to a head several days later, she said, when she developed that impending doom feeling. Reluctantly, she called 911 again. Things went differently in the emergency room this time."There was a young woman doctor who took care of me, said Ms. Leon. Her reaction was totally different. She knew that there was something definitely wrong.A few days later, she underwent an explorative cardiac catheterization procedure and received a devastating diagnosis: She had a critical blockage in the main artery supplying her heart. She would need emergency heart bypass surgery.She remembers thinking at the time:"Are you kidding me? I have two babies and I was going to do the whole mom thing, with playgroups and a jog stroller, and take classes. I may have tried one cigarette in my life. I didnt have cholesterol issues. I didnt have blood pressure issues.She received what at the time was considered one of the rarest possible diagnoses: spontaneous coronary artery dissection, or SCAD.The condition occurs when one of the arteries supplying the heart with oxygen spontaneously tears open, leading to a heart attack that can sometimes be fatal. It occurs most often in women, and can be exacerbated by pregnancy.But at the time, few doctors knew that SCAD even existed, or knew much about it.You are never going to meet anyone else who has this, Ms. Leon remembers one doctor telling her. Another told her, You need to move on and enjoy your children.Her doctors also told her that the only thing she could do to avoid SCAD in the future was to never get pregnant again. But seeking to learn more about the disease that had almost taken her life, she went online and started to find other women with similar symptoms around the world.In 2009, Ms. Leon went to the WomenHeart Science and Leadership Symposium at the Mayo Clinic, where she met Dr. Sharonne N. Hayes, a professor of cardiovascular medicine at Mayo. At that time, the largest study on SCAD included 43 patients."I walked up to Dr. Hayes and told her we had 70 people, and we wanted research, Ms. Leon recalled. She was like, Wow."Everything I learned about SCAD in my medical training was wrong, Dr. Hayes said.By 2010, with the help of Dr. Hayes, and subsequently SCAD Research Inc., an organization founded by Bob Alico, who lost his wife to SCAD, Dr. Hayes devised an innovative way to do research, using online networks of far-flung patients and analyzing genetic and clinical data."We never imagined there would be 1,000 female patients in our virtual registry, Dr. Hayes said.That fortuitous meeting between Ms. Leon and Dr. Hayes has helped transform SCAD from being an unknown, unrecognized condition to something all physicians are taught about during medical school and in later training.SCAD is now recognized as the most common cause of heart attacks in women under 40.Why did it take so long for physicians and researchers to recognize SCAD? The most important reason might have been that the condition predominantly affects women.We listen less well to women, said Dr. Hayes. We are much more likely to associate their symptoms with psychological causes.A heart attack is more likely to be fatal in a young woman than a young man, perhaps because womens cardiac symptoms are more often misattributed to anxiety or depression than mens.The bias that many women feel they face in the clinic or the emergency room has led some, like Ms. Leon, to take action and advocate for themselves and others."People are activated by injustice, by unanswered questions, said Dr. HayesShe offers this advice:"Dont walk out of a doctors office without answers. Find a doctor who is committed to listening to you and does not think they know everything about anything.The story of SCAD underscores how much we doctors still dont understand, including about heart disease in women. Too often those in the medical profession downplay womens complaints, telling them nothing is wrong.Women are often expected to take care of others but too often neglect themselves. Indeed, women take much longer to seek medical care for a heart attack than men.As we embrace new technologies to peer ever deeper inside the human body to find answers, perhaps the better route might be simply to attend to the patient in front of us. Often what we need to do is listen.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.  Jennifer James has apologised for taking 7,000 out the GoFundMe 'Keep All-Women' shortlists female. She has now returned the money to the campaign. Here is what she said:I just want to apologise again for taking out that 7,000 on Feb 8. Even though I was able to put it back in later that day I now get that this was more serious than I thought. I understand I was trite about it. I have since heard that some people were stressed and worried about it and that is entirely my fault. At the end of last week I got very stressed by a creditor's actions and I panicked and made a bad decision. That's not an excuse that's an explanation. I run my own business, renovating properties and had a loan pulled and i shouldn't have done it. I feel bad because you all put your trust in me and I fucked up. I also know that for a few loudmouths I can do nothing right and, to be honest, that's a 'you' problem not a 'me' problem. But carry on, whatever... I know I am pretty 'out there' but I am also COMMITTED to preserving women's rights, safety, dignity and privacy. Under no circumstances will I pull back from this case, it's on, it's happening and the Labour party is going to get smashed in court because they got this wrong and our position is CORRECT. You'll see.She has also been expelled from the Labour Party. Pictures of the letter she received have been uploaded to her campaign page.Edited for grammar.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Transwomen don't want to be women. And they don't want to be failed men - irrelevant and unfuckable. They obsess over porn and women they can't have. They hate women that get the attention they crave. So they mutilate themselves and try to perform femininity...only to find that people don't actually treat them like women, but mentally ill men to be given a wide breadth. And they hate women all the more for it.They don't want to be old or fat or unattractive. And being ignored like real women are is unacceptable to them.They don't want to be women. They want to be a male fantasy of what they think a woman should be - delicate, beautiful, sexually desirable. But not the real stuff that encompasses our lived experiences... They fetishize our pain and suffering. They seek to destroy female spaces and feminism that doesn't center penis. Its narcissistic rage and fetishes that drive most males that identify as trans.Beautifully written5 minutes agoWell saidDon't be obtuse.  No one is saying there is anything wrong with men or women wanting to be beautiful.   This issue is males thinking that beauty and fuckability are the end-all-be-all of womanhood.  Basically.  At least a certain subgroup of them.  From EVERYTHING I've seen, they really just want the asspats & "oh you look so good I NEVER would've guessed you're trans!" type comments.  Just [look] (https://timedotcom.files.wordpress.com/2015/06/bruce-jenner-vanity-fair-cover.jpg) how Caitlyn Jenner [dresses] (https://pmchollywoodlife.files.wordpress.com/2017/01/caitlyn-jenner-mac-new-ad-ftr-1.jpg) as a 60-something trans"woman".Now.  My intention isn't to judge older women or tell them how to dress.  But really?  Being a woman isn't about being fuckable or a sex object, especially for most post-menopausal women in their 60s.  It's about yoga pants, baggy shirts, jeans, T-shirts, sweatpants & other casual practical wear.  No makeup + a pony tail or messy bun some days.  Classy suits for formal affairs or dresses that leave something to the imagination.  I'm not saying go 100% Bea Arthur but...she's a more appropriate representative of the AVERAGE woman of that age range than some of these TiM's.I even heard one tran say he only wanted to be a woman when he was young but "not when things started to sag".  As if young women & old women are totally different species or smtg.  That points to a fetish & love of attention...the need for constant narcissistic supply & ego boosts from others.  Being a woman means being a woman ALL the time, not just when it gets you applause & magazine covers.  Changing your pronouns every other week, fluctuating between male/female/agender/etc so you can correct anyone who 'misgenders' you & all the rest are sure signs of attention-whoring narcissism.Most disturbingly, these guys honestly believe women have it easier in life & can skate by on their looks & pussies.  I've heard that sentiment from the horse's mouth over in some trans subs.  So many of them show a creepy jealousy & hatred toward actual women...it's beyond pathological.As if young women & old women are totally different species or smtg.Many men talk like this.  In my experience, many men talk like this.  It's a classic male point of view and shows that TIMs are just like other men, they don't have different brains, blah blah.2 minutes agoI have seen whole threads of these men talking about why they hate women. A whole bunch of them wrote they feel intense hatred and jealousy but like they want to fuck them hard too. It was sick.They want to be trans. Heaven forbid if their consciousnesses could be transported into an ACTUAL human woman's (MOST of them, anyhow). They wouldn't be able to rant about "cis privilege' because they'd be cis and they'd fucking loathe it. They'd hate being treated like women in the end.They desperately need the attention so gratuitously showered upon them by people like handmaidens and their trans bros. Being trans, and keeping their dicks, is what they truly want.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.though I haven't read the article yet (as yet too lazy to get free trial), the AAP is not alone https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/suicide-fears-from-scottish-council-on-human-bioethics-over-changing-gender-8mvkglccl" ... the Scottish Council on Human Bioethics (SCHB) said it is concerned about a study of 300 people from Sweden who completed biological sex reassignment surgery over 50 years.The 2014 research concluded that the procedure can lead to psychiatric problems and poor socialising, and that there were higher risks of mortality, suicidal behaviour and psychiatric morbidity."Found another subreddit that quoted the text!Scottish ethics experts have warned that people who go through irreversible gender reassignment surgery could be at greater risk of suicide in later life.As ministers consider steps to make it easier for children and adults to change gender, the Scottish Council on Human Bioethics (SCHB) said it is concerned about a study of 300 people from Sweden who completed biological sex reassignment surgery over 50 years.The 2014 research concluded that the procedure can lead to psychiatric problems and poor socialising, and that there were higher risks of mortality, suicidal behaviour and psychiatric morbidity.In a submission to the Scottish government, the SCHB  an independent group of doctors, lawyers, scientists and others associated with medical ethics  noted the research found a link between reassignment surgery and increased suicide risk later.The group said the study did not prove the operation was to blame, but noted a significant minority of transsexuals express regret after irreversible surgery, and that some revert to living in their original sex.Three patients in Belgium who had biological sex reassignment asked later for their lives to end through euthanasia as a result of unbearable mental or physical suffering, the SCHB warns ministers.A 44-year-old transsexual identified as a girl at birth was given voluntary euthanasia in Belgium after failed sex-change operations resulted in permanent depression.Much of the research by the SCHB has centred on gender dysphoria, where a person experiences distress because of a mismatch between their biological sex and gender identity.Dr Calum MacKellar, the SCHBs director of research, urged the Scottish government to avoid changing the Gender Recognition Act without more research.Irreversible gender reassignment surgery should take place only after the person seeking to undergo it has had an extensive and appropriate psychological assessment followed by counselling. It is only when the person is fully informed of all the advantages and risks that he or she can fully give informed consent, said MacKellar.Those affected by gender dysphoria should not become victims of political agendas.At the end of last year, the Scotlands government took a step closer to being the first in the UK to recognise a third gender, after complaints that trans people endure a long and demeaning process to prove their gender identity.Last week Leslie Evans, Scotlands top civil servant, urged privileged non-transgender people to recognise how easy it is for them to access healthcare.The Scottish government said it is considering the next steps following its consultation on the Gender Recognition Act.thanks ! pleased to have read the rest of it; hoping this has an impactAccording to one psychiatrist who helped write the new criteria, the goal was to move toward viewing transgender identification as a normal variation of sexual orientation.The author needs to get her facts straight. Nobody, including psychiatrist Jack Drescher, is claiming that transgenderism is a sexual orientation. That's why it's argued that the "T" doesn't belong with the "LGB."Just so folks are aware, The Federalist is a conservative website/magazine.The organization the doctors in the article are part of, the ACP/American College of Pediatricians (not to be confused with the AAP/American Academy of Pediatricians), is also very conservative. It wasn't so long ago that they were fighting against gay rights.Thank you, was just coming into highlight this.You're welcome! It's important to understand that just because we share a view on this subject doesn't mean these are our allies in any way. Our motivations and intentions are worlds apart.I was reading up a bit on some of the wording and phrasing they've used against gay rights, it's nearly identical. Unfortunately, nowadays, they (and their bedfellows) the only ones who can make claims about the trans epidemic so boldy though.A big societal difference between what they say about homosexuality vs. trans is that LGB studies have repeatedly occurred which disprove their claims. Knowledge and investigation has been allowed and encouraged.But for anything trans-related - nope, not gonna happen. Studies around the world are removed from the public eye, researchers and doctors and teachers are forced to resign from their jobs, financial grants are pulled, everyday people are harassed and arrested and deplatformed, etc etc. MUST NOT SHOW THE OTHER SIDE.We need to tread very carefully in a world where only the far-right is given freedom to speak about the things we're saying. They are not friends of radical feminists, non-RadFem CG people, or women's rights. They are advocates for traditionalism and upholding gender roles.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Makeup is not drag. Even extra looks like this are not drag, though I can see how someone might get them confused at first glance, considering the theatrical quality of the makeup. What this lacks is the mocking, lampooning buffoonery of drag, which is also what makes blackface so abhorrent.I can't help but wonder if the OP from the screenshot was trolling to stir up trouble, or just genuinely confusing the two.I don't think she was trolling, I'm leaning more on towards "genuinely confused" mixed in with "far-right conservative".The tweet was made by a female Canadian journalist known for having ties to white nationalism.Oh, well thats gross. So shes an idiot AND a fascist. Frankly, just about everyone in that comment section is acting like morons.Agreed!Most radfems are critical of the beauty industry and the pressures on women to perform femininity. We do not claim ownership of makeup and see gender as an oppressive system, so accusations of "gender appropriation" don't even make sense being blamed on "terfs."That being said, I think you can still view this man's makeup as being extremely feminine and perhaps even pornified, and to such an extent he would be reinforcing gender rather than breaking it. I'm not sure where my views are on the subject, but I do know idgaf about "gender appropriation," what i do care about, and the only thing I ever care about, is the well-being of women.Yeah I was just thinking this. "Gender appropriation" is ridiculous. Gender needs to be eliminated as a concept.I agreed! Yes interesting point about the makeup, although I am all for men doing things regarded stereotypically as feminine to break gender boundaries BUT it is still women who suffer the most from the perception we need to wear makeup and men wearing this kind of makeup does seem to embrace that version of beauty over others.... I dont know my views either really but you raise a good point - its a complex area.Lots of deleted comments. Lots of "fuck terfs".It's all Venus Envy from the mentally illOooh i like that. Venus envy is shirt materialBased on the comments from moderators Im guessing the deleted content are transphobic remarks. Because only terfs can be transphobic /s or i guess the only transphobia they want to acknowledge is that attributed to feminists :/Someone in that thread said to me 'no terfs are feminists' lmaoooo terf really doesn't mean anything anymore.Well said. I just got banned because of that thread actually. It was weird that they think it's transphobic when a man wearing makeup has nothing to do with trans people in the first place. If anything I think the original tweet is sexist by acting like a man wearing makeup is putting on woman blackface..Yes, thats exactly it! The original tweet is hugely sexist! Not transphobic or anything. Ppl really be dumb. That thread annoyed me so much.  "None of you make any bigoted comments and I won't have to ban the fuck out of anyone."Also posts dumb, bigoted trans maymay.r/insanepeoplefacebook mods confirmed for Trans Acceptance Radical Delusionists.I don't even agree with the whole "gender appropriation" shit just because the dude wore some makeup; even drag queens don't bother me because it's really just pantomime, they don't pretend as though they're actually female like TIMs do.Ha!Yeah, fuck TRADs. I hope they CHOKE on their favorite ice cream, cough, feel better, and continue eating their ice cream.Because I'm not a fucking violent, insane, entitled, murderous monster.Lol I got my comments removed on this in beauty guru chatter after this was cross posted and an official warning that i'd be banned if I didn't stop it with the "TERF" comments. The offending comments? That wearing makeup doesn't make you a woman. On a post about how James Charles is wearing makeup, and he's very much a man. :)Yeah it's not woman face to me because women don't look like that.From the comments:I guess by that logic a woman with no makeup is man-faceThis. I can't gaf about men wearing the "beauty ideals" forced on us because I don't even want them? So go ahead, men.Interested in others povs on this thoIm cool with men wearing makeup. Couldnt really give a tinkers cuss one way or another what he slaps on his face to be honest. If it rocks his world, then he should totally go for it. Radical feminism is all about the abolition of gender roles, so I say rock on.This is so well put. I really cant stand people dont give any critical thought to what radfems actually stand for and believe.This was also posted in "onguardforthee" (don't want to link it here) and the top comment was something similar about terfs. "You can undo their whole argument with one thing" and then talked some bullshit that doesn't undo anything from radical feminism.It's only "womanface" if he claims that doing this makes him a woman. He doesn't, he just likes makeup. They're right that makeup=/=womanhood, but if only they could keep going with that line of thought....The two top Canadian subreddits are both fucked. It's either alt-right bullshit or woke left koolaid drinking.20K upvotes, impressive. :)I don't know. There was a post here yesterday saying exactly that about drag. This is a radfem space even if not everyone who posts here is radfem. There's a few topics not everyone here agrees on and this is one of them. I'm trying to find a space where my views align and it's not libfeminism but, after a few posts and comments on here, it's not 100% radfem either.I think drag is quite a lot different from just men wearing make up and having a feminine personality. Pretty much all drag personas are extreme caricatures of women at their absolute worst (shallow, bitchy, bimbo'ish, vain, slutty etc. etc. etc)I don't personally take offence to drag but I can understand why some women would.I am more offended by fully penised TIMs that think a stripper wig turns them into a female, and they try to interfere with women's rights.I do get that and I think it isn't above criticism. I understand it's gone mainstream thanks to RPDR but it's also changed drastically from its origins. I know this sub hates NAMALT and misogyny and racism are a problem in the gay male community, but I also don't feel policing another marginalized group (gay men, gender dysphoric TiMs, and many of them non-white) is productive. There's also Drag Kings who aren't as popular but I wish had more visibility. I'm beginning to feel we also need a gencrit LGB sub away from the feminism aspect because some of the attitudes in here veer really close to homophobia in regards to gay men (coming from straight women and not lesbians).I left libfem spaces because of the sexism but there's been some casual racism and misdirected anger in some of the comments on here. Maybe this place isn't for me and I'll leave if this comment upsets people but the last thing I want is to be in is another echo chamber.  I don't think they're above criticism at all. Gay men did the same exact thing that MtTs are doing right now. They stole aspects of female oppression to play with, then when we say Hey that's not fun, it actually kills women, they scream about how oppressed they are; often with they help of women who have their socialization programming triggered when confronted with the poor, poor gay men (who can literally take off the dress at any time and pass for straight, whereas i can't take my vagina off).You're putting men above women when you give gay men a pass for appropriating our oppression as a comedy act.If gay men felt too oppressed and just HAD to express themselves, why did they have to punch down and make fun of women? Why can't they confront other men about homophobia? Why do they have to mock women to express themselves? Exactly which part of themselves are they expressing when they call our vaginas fishy?I think thats a good idea, making an LGB minus the T space for in depth discussion concerning people of both sexes. This sub has gotten a big enough following that gender critical discussion specific to other groups will probably do well.r/LesBiGay may be a good starting place. It doesn't really take a stance on being GC, but is specifically for LGB.What do you think u/StcStasi? Since you created the sub and all :)Gender is a social construct. I am critical of gender stereotypes. Sexism is harmful for everyone. People are allowed to decide what they are and are not attracted to. Peace out.Why do women keep complaining that this sub doesn't fit their views 100% and then say they are going to leave if it doesn't change to fit them 100%? That's some passive-aggressive, guilt trip, manipulatory garbage. Please stop. And not even all radfems are going to agree on everything all of the time. Even badass feminists in history did not agree 100% with the feminist ideologies of their time.I'm not trying to be passive aggressive, I'm trying to be polite and understand exactly what this sub is or isn't. It's fine to disagree and that's healthy but I'm finding a lot of people on here are just as zealous as the TRAs and are encouraged. I've seen rational comments deleted and the "handmaiden" shit is sexist in itself.I think its important to have debates and accept we wont all agree on some things. Like we are all here because we agree on core issues like gender and feminism and the patriarchy but within that there is scope for debate about how it translates when talking about drag, etc. Im not on here all the time so dont see everything but as long as debate is respectful I dont have a problem with not agreeing with every view put forward as long as I know I can also have a say on an issue.Mine wasn't. My biggest drag appearances were: My college graduation. My company's yearly conference two years in a row.I'll admit I did these things to counter the normal use of drag to negatively stereotype femininity, so maybe I'm just the exception that proves the rule.You aren't. It's not up to you to decide if your depiction of women is offensive or not, it's up to the party you are mimicking, aka women.Drag is not the same as wearing makeup.I have an idea! Lets encourage men to appropriate womanhood by wearing makeup so that we dont have to anymore and can live our lives without smearing toxic chemicals in our faces everydayGo for it, James Charles! You can have it all!I have to laugh when they think feminists are stopping men & trans women from wearing makeup or that we care if trans women want to be in Victoria's secret shows or playboy magazines. By all means, if you want that oppressive, regressive garbage, take it.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.No woman should ever go to Dubai. The chance that any female visitor could be kidnapped and trafficked into prostitution in that city is quite high. And for most women who suffer the kidnapping there, its imprisoned prostitution. Your business wants to have a conference there? Raise a hell no. Its life threatening.I spent a great deal of time in Dubai, as a Middle Eastern dancer.  While the laws can often be oppressive, I was never in any danger of anything like that happening.I watched a documentary once about Eastern European women and Nigerian women being fed bullshit about going to Dubai and providing daycare to a wealthy elite. They were flown over, tricked, then trafficked into a disgusting enslaved prostitution there. One woman, diagnosed with HIV, shared her story of having a hole cut out of a mattress pad in which she could fit her 8-month pregnant belly, and was forced to let the buyer anally rape her from behind. Another woman who couldnt escape decided to kill herself, and jump out of a skyscraper. She survived, relegated to a life in a wheelchair back home in Europe. At least shes no longer enslaved.Dont go to Dubai.You realize there have been multiple cases of foreign women coming to Dubai and having their passports revoked and being kidnapped? Its not something people in this thread made up.43 minutes agoSo you can choose to be an exotic dancer, whatever you like, but I will have a much higher respect for a female western office worker who says "hell no" to travelling there considering the regime and what it does to women. One woman is thinking of the whole, rather than her own wallet.Her father, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum, the ruler of Dubai and prime minister of the United Arab Emirates, owns a large estate and a prominent thoroughbred racing stable, Godolphin, there.Holy shit.Very famous stable in horse racing.I had no idea that was him.this poor woman.It's apartheid, it is.But because it is female apartheid, the world yawns.Whats particularly stark and horrifying to me is that this woman is literally a princess - she is educated, well-off, speaks fluent English, has international friends - and she still cannot get free. Its that oppressive for women there.Yes, it's horrifying.If she can't get free, what hope does the poorest woman have?On Christmas Eve, Dubai released the first public photos of Sheikha Latifa since her disappearance. They showed her sitting with Mary Robinson, the former president of Ireland and former United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, who confirmed that she had met the sheikha at her familys request.Ms. Robinson said Sheikha Latifa was safe with her family, but said she was receiving psychiatric care, calling her a troubled young woman with a serious medical condition.This is a family matter now, Ms. Robinson said.What an absolute fucking nightmare. Special fuck you to Mary Robinson for trying to legitimize Latifa's incarceration.Look up the Magdalene Laundries and their mass graves if you're interested in the type of shit Ireland pulled. It was barely any different to what Saudi Arabia is currently doing, and Mary Robinson was sitting president during the time these prisons were operating.Oh shit. I did know about the Magdalene Laundries but not Robinson's connection to them. Interesting that Robinson tries to reframe this incarceration as rehabilitation similar to what was used to explain away locking away all those women and girls in state-sponsored laundry jail. 'They're fallen women, they need our help, they're better off this way' followed by radio silence.Ugh it's like in the Handmaids Tale when she tries to ask for help from the foreign diplomats but they're just like, eh, no sorry we care more about our trade agreements (or whatever it was), we can't even hear what you're saying, you're fine I am sure.Atwood did base everything in the book on things that have happened in real life.  So I shouldn't be surprised by this one still happening.Technically women can call themselves feminists no matter what they actually believe, but libfems want nothing but to control other women into silence by policing words.I'm really starting to think liberal feminism is some men's rights b.s.There has been a hostile takeover of liberal feminism by men. I noticed it back when so-called feminists were saying, feminism isnt about womens rights, its about equality!! Uh fuck no it isnt about equality its about womens liberationSo if you dont support a move that has been proven to increase sexual harassment against women and girls and remove their privacy and comfort, youre not welcome in the lib dems?But if you support your father, a peodophile convicted of some of the most horrific crimes I have ever heard of, and name him as your election agent while he is undergoing trial for those crimes, youre welcomed with open arms?Guess Im not voting for the lib dems anymore!  Brits, who IS safe to vote for now!?Bloody good question. Ive always been a Labour voter but since Lily Madigan became womens officer (her Twitter is nightmare fuel the last time I looked) and given the lacklustre approach to the brexit situation, Im not feeling particularly pro Labour. The Tories are a definite no for me (even if I swung right, this lot would be a hard no for me) and well ... we can all see where the Lib Dems stand. I guess it leaves the Greens but theyre not really a big party so I seriously doubt it would have much impact.That they would select a trans woman as a womens officer is so insulting.  I wouldnt apply to be a womens office right now because I dont think I have enough female life experience - Ive never been pregnant, never needed an abortion, never given birth, breast fed or raised children.  Ive never needed the protection of a domestic violence shelter.  Although Ive dealt with having periods, suffering sexism, male violence and female-specific health problems.What female experience does this TIM have!? Who thinks he is more qualified than actual women to be the womens officer? How dare he have the audacity to take a political post that should be reserved for women to help other women with problems they face for being women!They dont care about women. Because they are men. Its crystal clear.Oh well. Thats one less vote for the Lib Dems then.So they don't support women's rights. Good to know.How liberalA Liberal Democrat peer has claimed women cannot call themselves feminists unless they support gender neutral toilets.Former minister Lynne Featherstone made the controversial claim as it emerged the party had recruited the transgender daughter of a convicted paedophile as a new diversity officer.Aimee Challenor has been taken on by the party in Coventry despite leaving the Greens after her election agent father was arrested for raping a 10-year-old girl.The move emerged after Baroness Featherstone, who is the Lib Dems energy and climate change spokesman, wrote a blog celebrating LGBT History Month claiming that the party had been campaigning for gender neutral bathrooms, school uniforms and X option on passports, official documents and forms for those who do not wish to identify as male or female.Calling for reform of the Gender Recognition Act, she added: I also have a message to those people who believe they can restrict trans womens rights, deny their human rights or exclude them from women-only spaces in the name of feminists. You are not feminists. Your views are not welcome in the Liberal Democrats.Ms Challenor, 21, withdrew her nomination for deputy leadership of the Green Party when her father, David Challenor, 50, was sentenced last August to 22 years for the rape and torture of a girl in the attic of the family home in Coventry. MS Challenor had twice made her father her election agent for parliamentary candidacy after his arrest, later stating she was not aware of the full extent of the allegations.She was suspended pending an investigation and an independent inquiry by investigations consultancy Verita found MS Challenor had made a serious error of judgment in the appointment and criticised the Greens for failing to see the safeguarding issues.Mr Challenors role within the party meant he continued to have access to young people despite facing trial for 20 serious sexual offences against a child that involved him also dressing up as a girl. He was known as Baloo in the party, after the popular bear character in childrens classic, The Jungle Book.Investigators said they found it hard to understand some of Aimees actions and explanations. She blamed her autism for not having a full understanding of her responsibilities.Ms Challenor has been on the Trans Advisory Group of LGBT charity Stonewall since 2015 and was believed to have been involved in Girlguidings controversial decision last year to allow biological boys to share sleeping space with girls if they identify as transgender.A Liberal Democrat spokesman said the party have a long history of championing and fighting for trans rights and we will continue to do so. The spokesman added that the party was aware of the circumstances surrounding Aimees resignation from the Green Party and made safeguarding a priority.Liberal men don't want any women who don't cater to males. Conservative men don't want any women who don't cater to males. There's a theme there.Dear Lib Dems,If you're yet again going to say anything to get the youth vote, stick with campaigning for a People's Vote on Brexit....aaaaannnnnnd.....they've just lost my vote...  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.A hole is a holeIf people can see that this is offensive, then why can't they see why calling a vagina a front hole is also offensive? Or why calling a surgically constructed hole in a man a vagina also offensive? Why does the logic not follow, especially since the vagina is its own thing and not just a hole for men to fuck?  Men have been making misogynist ads ever since they were created. Remember those sexist ads from the 50s? Exactly. Nothing has changed.Anyways, I used to shop at Lidl once in a while because they have some stuff that I can't find in other supermarkets. I'll stop going there though, not interested in handing them my money for a few snacks. I'll live.Edit: I really can't stand the dudebros claiming "this is what you get for those Gillette ads". This Lidl commercial is not a backlash, it's just typical male misogyny except in modern times disrespecting women DOES come with consequences.What were they even trying to advertise?  I really dont get itThe donut and the bagel. But I think what they really wanted is polarizing.Hole is hole is a misogynistic joke in Germany (not sure if it exists in other countries/languages the same way).It means a hole is a hole and should be fucked no matter to the woman attached.So for example if a guy sleeps with an "ugly" woman one of his sexist pig friends could say "doesn't matter a hole is a hole"The bagel hole and donut hole on the picture are of different size and stand metaphorically for women's vaginas. So no matter if the hole is large or not "hole is hole".It is unbelievably vulgar, sexist and disgusting!Hope it is clearer now it is not so easy to explain in English.We have the same concept in English but the expression for it is "any hole is a goal". Gross I know!Additionally, with hole is hole, those creeps use it here aswell while trying to say that anal and vaginal ones are the same, so they dont care where they stick it into, as long as it is a hole... So disgusting.It definitely exists in other countries. It's a commonly known phrase in English.If a hole is a hole then all those porn-soaks arseholes can fuck a fucking bagel.Thank you for calling this out - and let's all keep posting such offensive ads and changing our shopping habits accordingly  There was a Serbian Lidl commercial that said 'high quality, low prices' represented by a tall man and short woman. Immature and tacky commercials seem to be a trend, then.If I remember correctly the apology was of the typical non-apology kind, i.e. If anyone was offended, we apologize. No, you jerks, you should apologize for the crap you put out there. In freaking 2019.You are nothing but a fuck hole to be abused. Pastry company (???) to German womenGermany is the country of the mega-brothel, who only just upgraded rape law from "must have demonstrated resistance" to "must have said no," so...it's in keeping with the national character.Wow so in the past if you fought a guy off but didnt specifically say no it wasnt considered rape?!?!In the past, if you could not show evidence of having fought, it was not considered rape (many victims freeze and do not fight; furthermore, if you are drunk/drugged/asleep/mentally impaired/ambushed from behind, it's kind of impossible to fight).Now, they realized how ridiculous such a requirement is, so it is required that you have said "no." It's kind of lost on them how again if you are passed-out, mentally-impaired, frozen in shock or fear, gagged, or ambushed and in too much pain to speak, again you might not be able to say "no!"Altogether, it is an astoundingly stupid rape law, yet it is celebrated as a "feminist victory" that it changed from "must demonstrate resistance" to "must have vocalized lack of consent."shakes head Oh, Germany. You have a long way to go.Lidl is a whole supermarket chain here, that makes it even worse as for some people it's the only way to acquire food fast, as not in every town here are shops everywhere. It's one of the main supermarkets along Aldi, Penny, Netto, Edeka, etc... Can't even think of many more.What the fuck? Why on earth is a grocery store even running ads like this? I cant imagine Safeway or Albertsons making misogynistic references to womens genitals like that here in the states...I've heard males use this exact phrase to justify anything from homosexuality to rape to bestiality to pedophilia.One of those things is not like the others, though... (I mean, "justify homosexuality"?)To these sorts of males, they think it needs justification.Lidl is about to open a store near by. Thanks for the heads up.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.For those who dont want to give clicks to Cosmo, the article written by Sarah Stankorb and published 2.5.2019:Lyvonne Picou was a sophomore at Seton Hall University when a guy she liked gave her a copy of a book called I Kissed Dating Goodbye. The paperback had worn, dog-eared pages. On its cover, a young man tipped his fedora like Cary Grantor like a finance guy dressed way too on-the-nose for a speakeasy bar he read about on Yelp. Nevermind the books title (Lyvonne and the guy never did get together)she devoured IKDG, as it became known to its devotees, between classes and in random spots around campus. She found it romanticlike a fairy tale.Its a strange choice of words to describe a manifesto on extreme sexual abstinence. Harris promoted saving yourself for marriage, which Lyvonnethen a self-described born-again virgin who had fallen in with an evangelical crowdwas already planning to do. But as the title suggests, Harris went even further than that, making the case for giving up dating entirelyno hanging out with guys one-on-one, no kissing, even no holding hands.Instead, people who wanted to get married should have a courtship approved by the womans parents. In IKDG and subsequent books, Harris said this would protect against heartbreak and sexual sin (plus store up more passion for marriage).I started romanticizing the idea of not being physical, Lyvonne says. My relationship would be pure and perfect. I totally bought into it.She and some friends from her gospel choir set about following Harriss dictates, trying to keep my legs closed, she says, so that God would send me a chocolate man who was 6 foot 3 with a killer smile. It wasnt always easyin the eight years that followed, she had slipups, each ending with a burning rush of shame.Once, things got out of hand with a male friend, who kissed her and licked her nipples. She burst into tears. That she was a survivor of childhood sexual abuse only intensified her regret. I felt ashamed of my body and trauma, she says. I didnt know how to reconcile it with my faith.Lyvonne was far from alone: An extreme focus on sexual purity has left a generation of women riddled with shame, anxiety, and PTSD-type symptoms, writes researcher and former evangelical Linda Kay Klein in her new book, Pure. We went to war with ourselves, our own bodies, our own sexual natures, she says, all under the strict commandment of the church.Using the hashtag #IKDGStories, which calls attention to the aftermath of Harriss work, one woman wrote that her virginity had been so central to her self-worth that even after years of therapy, she experienced painful vaginismus (a severe tightening of the vagina often linked to anxiety around sex) when she tried to have intercourse.Samantha Field, now 31, describes staying with a sexually abusive partner for years, believing that because theyd had sex, she was disgusting garbage that no one else would want. I have to constantly fight against the lie that because I wasnt pure enough, that because I had dressed provocatively and allowed myself to be alone with him, that I invited it, she wrote on her blog.Lyvonne says she struggled with feeling damaged, broken, dirty, and evil for years. We were supposed to kiss dating good-bye, but I kissed sexuality good-bye.Then last October, Harris, who had by then become an influential megachurch pastor, pulled a sudden 180 and disavowed much of his work, even going as far as to ask his publishers to stop printing IKDG and two books that followed it.For the women whod molded their lives to conform to his demands, moving on wasnt so easy.Joshua Harris isnt solely responsible for the rise of purity culture, but he was perhaps its most persuasive prophet, especially among young women. The movement began in the 1980s and early 90s when evangelical Christians started lobbying the government to fund abstinence-only education in schools as the AIDS crisis raged. An organization called True Love Waits, founded by the Southern Baptist Convention, popularized pledge cards with which young people could swear off sex until the day I enter a biblical marriage. The pledges spread from Baptist gatherings to Catholic churches to Christian rock concerts. In todays lingo, they went viral.And they kept spreading: In 1994, True Love Waits hosted a rally on the National Mall displaying more than 210,000 cards from teenagers across the country pledging to remain pure. Activists scored a meeting with President Bill Clinton. Four years later, Congress allocated $50 million annually for abstinence-only sexual education.More than any other Christian religious dictatelike, say, feeding the poornot having sex (or at least saying you were not having sex) became the way for evangelical young people to live out their faith, writes Klein. And they wanted the merch to prove it: purity rings, pins, and bracelets engraved with Bible versesnot to mention thong underwear emblazoned with One life, one lovepopped up in online stores or in some cases at mainstream retailers like Walmart. Unlike Catholicism, which has clear doctrine and leadership, evangelical subculture lacks a traditional hierarchy. Early on, its ideas were spread by charismatic pastors and, later, televangelists and sprawling megachurches. Then came a thriving market of Christian pop culture: books, movies, music, and a circuit of hired speakers.When Harristhe handsome son of a prominent homeschooling advocate whod been publishing his own Christian teen magazineburst onto the scene in 1997, it was primed for him. In IKDG, he told the story of his own conversion in personal terms. Formerly girl crazy, he felt called to live a more virtuous life, threw out a Penthouse magazine he had stolen (and returned to the store to pay for it), broke up with his girlfriendtheyd been violating each others purityand wrote his blockbuster book in less than a year. That he was 21 when the book was published and not an ordained preacher was no problem. Evangelicalism is built to give authority to men in particular, says Dianna Anderson, whose youth group in South Dakota followed Harriss no-dating model. Even a 19-year-old man can become an authority on a subject because he says this is what God wanted.In its first year, I Kissed Dating Goodbye sold more than 118,000 copies, a feat for a small Christian relationship guidebook. (Today, that number has risen to 1.2 million.) Harris instantly made purity cool to young people. If you are part of that homeschool culture or that larger evangelical culture and heres this young, good-looking guy giving you instructions on how to be the kind of woman he would want to marry, youre going to eat that up, says Sara Moslener, a lecturer in the department of philosophy and religion at Central Michigan University.Seemingly overnight, Harris had groupies. Samantha had been given a purity ring by her parents at age 16 (Girls in our area would wear their rings until their wedding day and then gift them to their husbands in a nice box, she says). After IKDG was published, fedoras became de rigueur on campus at her alma mater, Pensacola Christian College. I didnt have a crush on him specifically, but guys who sounded and acted like him became more attractive, says Samantha. Harris even appeared on Bill Maher to discuss dating and relationships with Ben Affleck, who sagely asked how youd ever find The One if you couldnt date.Emily Joy, now 27, grew up with Harriss booksafter IKDG, he would publish five moreand calls them foundational to my understanding of what a healthy relationship should be. And yet, as a teenager, his writing made her hypervigilant of everything my body was doing at all times, she says. She feared full-frontal hugs because if a boy pressed against her breasts, she might inadvertently cause him to have lustful thoughts, which, according to Harris, could set him on the path to damnation. Never mind that Emily was queer (she didnt know it at the time). For years, it felt like every muscle in my body was clenched, she says, as she tried to avoid turning men on.Samantha was also feeling the pressure. I had such fear over my own sexuality, she says. The book taught me that it must be tightly restrained, almost viciously controlled, or you might die. Harris used that threat. (In IKDG, he wrote of spiritual death in stark terms: No matter how good impuritys victims may be or how holy theyve been in the past, if they set foot in her house, they speed toward death on an expressway with no exits.)After finally escaping her abusive ex, Samantha tried to have sex within the confines of a healthy relationship at age 25. The first time I tried to give my now-husband a blow job, it was a massive trigger, she says. I was in tears, shaking, nauseated. I had to heal from a lot of trauma.On a Friday in November, I called Harris, who answered from a coffee shop in Canada, where he moved after leaving the ministry in 2015. I deeply, deeply regret any part that my writing contributed to women being led to a really unhealthy view of their body, their sexuality, he told me. His about-face began in 2012, when a sexual-abuse scandal rocked the megachurch where he was a pastor. The abuse happened before Harriss time, but he was accused, with other church leaders, of not reporting allegations to police sooner (Harris left the church shortly thereafter). During this reckoning, he also heard from congregants about how the church and his books had harmed them. So last year, he finally posted a blockbuster statement to his website: To those who read my book and were misdirected or unhelpfully influenced by it, I am sincerely sorry.I regret any way that my ideas restricted you, hurt you, or gave you a less-than-biblical view of yourself, your sexuality, your relationships, and God.Now, he goes further. When I look at the way courtship played out for the majority of the people and the environment it created, I do think it is a failed enterprise, he says.In November, Harris released a documentary titled 'I Survived I Kissed Dating Goodbye,' which features women and men talking about how the book affected them. But by then, not everyone was buying what he was selling (Harris says he will not profit from the film). The secular media was receptive, painting him as contrite and searching. But many ex-evangelicals remained skeptical.Samantha and Emily helped start the #IKDGStories hashtag in part to ensure that Harris would not control the womens narratives. Using the hashtag, women shared stories of waiting indefinitely for a husband to materialize, spending years lonely and riddled with guilt if they masturbated, or blaming themselves for their sexual abuse. Harris asked for permission to use some of the stories on his website and his documentary, but Samantha and Emily, at least, were suspicious of Harriss trueTo some of these women, Harriss so-called apology tour still feels incomplete and convenient, like a desperate plea for relevance or a rebranding rather than a serious reevaluation. I dont remember where I was when he issued his apology, but I was pissed, says Emily. Its very clear to me from the documentary that he is sorry for the wrapping paper of his beliefs but not the actual beliefs themselves. To her, Harris hasnt gone far enough to address the LGBTQ community. Instead of making a documentary, maybe he should just come back to us once hes unlearned it all, she says. Come back to us when youre sex-positive.One woman on Twitter cut him more slack: I feel bad for Josh Harris these days, to be honest....He has to live with a lot of peoples pain.But he was 21. Everyones dumb at 21. No publisher should have given him the time of day. No Christian leaders or parents should have given his message that kind of power.Harris, for his part, tells me, I basically started to see that real harm can come even though there are good intentions....I wish I had seen these problems sooner.If for some reason youd like to snag a copy of I Kissed Dating Goodbye, you can still buy one on Amazon for $9. (Its officially out of print, but others of Harriss books remain in production.) Still, purity culture, while past its heyday, lives on, in daddy-daughter purity ceremonies and organizations like Silver Ring Thing, which preaches in high schools, churches, and other venues using high-energy music, videos, dramas, special effects, and comedy.And although there may not be a new Harris on the holiness circuit, purity has other big advocates. Since President Trump took office, federal funding for abstinence-only education has surged for the first time since 2008. Meaning the sexist ideology that so many women say made them feel self-hatred and shame about their bodies will continue to be served up right after science class.Some women are fighting back from within. Samantha is currently attending seminary and hopes to write about gender and politics in Christianity. Lyvonne eventually started therapy and became a pastor herself, focused on helping womenin particular black womenheal from sexual trauma and warped views of sex. There are so many out there, she says, left reeling by men like Harris. (Hes now running a marketing business in Vancouver.) Lyvonne wants these women to demand more from their churches. You cant do that if youre sitting in the back pew, she says, cowed by anxiety, silenced by shame.Instead of making a documentary, maybe he should just come back to us once hes unlearned it all, she says. Come back to us when youre sex-positive.See, this is a trap, too. Sex Positive benefits men more than it does women.One woman on Twitter cut him more slack: I feel bad for Josh Harris these days, to be honest....He has to live with a lot of peoples pain.But he was 21. Everyones dumb at 21. No publisher should have given him the time of day. No Christian leaders or parents should have given his message that kind of power.He......really wasn't the designer of purity culture. He was just the face of it. I think that's important to note. It goes deeper. Rad fems are portrayed as dark, hateful shrews who want to destroy love and family. Pomos agree with fundies 100% on that. I wish more people would hear us out and see how we make more sense.He was a kid who got given a platform he should never have been given, because other kids would listen to him and consider him inspirational, when they wouldn't listen as raptly to the older men whose mouthpiece he was. Josh Harris and his ilk have done untold damage to young (mostly Christian, overwhelmingly homeschooled or Christian-schooled) people around the world. I don't think Harris himself is or was evil, and I think he was doing his best. He had shitty advice from shitty people who he trusted, and he took it, same as any of us would at 21.Source: purity wars veteran based in New Zealand.Honestly, I'm a bit skeptical myself.  I suspect he was starting to realize it was all bullshit and wanted to get away while he still could.Part of me wants to believe he really has seen the harm that purity ideology causes, and another part of me wonders if a story about extramarital affairs or children who were fathered by him out of marriage is going to come out. I hope its genuine, but it seems akin to how a lot of ex-gay spokespeople either get outed or come out ahead of a story.I'm not holding my breath that he's actually a decent person.Go around hurting an entire generation of young Christian women and then once that's not profitable anymore change your tune. There's a pair of women youtubers who were big time models and now theyre hardcore purity cultists, basically the opposite approach.Isn't it great how you can make money off evil then make even more simply by claiming to no longer be that way? Disgusting.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Unfortunately you probably encountered people who are citizens of the US or the UK, both have reached a point where their societies and cultures are totally falling apart and have become incredibly unhealthy and rather disgusting. They are also egocentric societies full of citizens completely incapable of understanding that people from other countries might be posting, and completely unwilling to even consider the possibility that the views of citizens from other countries might actually be the "correct" ones.Yep, we're a really mean and/or stupid country. Very selfish. Even the so called caring "socialists" will throw poor people, minorities and women under the bus gladly.You did nothing wrong, and you are not ignorant. Males who identify as females are DEFINITELY not more oppressed than actual women who are killed due to our biology worldwide. They have tendencies toward suicide because they have a mental disorder and mental disorders cause these problems.But thats not our problem as women. We can want trans individuals to be safe and have access to health care and housing without also accepting males into female spaces. The two are not mutually exclusive despite what the trans lobby claims.And yes you are called a fascist if you disagree with leftists on this one point even if you align with leftist views in every other way. Ive been called conservative, right wing, a man, hitler, etc for these beliefs but the notion of women being forced to allow men into our spaces because they claim to be us is important enough to me that I dont care.Confused. They had their talking points ready and waiting to confuse and gaslight women speaking the obvious, they had already infiltrated a lot of feminist groups. The first attack against me sorry to say came from lesbians who thought I was male for some reason and gay.They were the only lesbians I know of who did it though since, after that it was older feminists, now it's young feminists and A LOT of "woke bros" going along, finally gave up when actually physically threatened by a very large, very manly, TIM.  edited 18 minutes agoWhy are there transgenders on twoXchromosomes??? The fuck?Edit: my dumbass wrote the wrong "there"I made that very question and they banned meMy boyfriend's best friend got in my face and called a cunt after I made a jab about his borderline too-young girlfriend. It felt weird. It was like I couldn't stand up for myself because I was afraid of how the situation would progress; I feared for my safety despite being in a very public place even with my boyfriend. I was shocked and almost triumphant in that someone else had to have seen the sexism and violence that had taken place right in front of everyone... It was just.. weird.Sorry if this is a complete misinterpretation of your question. Feel free to delete if it doesn't belong here :)3 minutes agoThis is exactly what I wanted to hear, I had mixed feelings about the whole exchange on the mentioned sub and I wanted to know if any of you felt something similarIt really does make you feel powerless  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.So... womens rights have improved in 17 years? Are they indicating that US intervention in Afghanistan has helped women achieve rights there? Ive always been against the war effort but I had not heard this.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.There are humans who are good enough to be called men, and everyone else will have to settle for being a non-man.  It just so happens that non-men who have penises are centered among non-men, and men with vaginas are invisible and never seem to have the success and privilege that men with penises have.I wonder what these privileged and unprivileged groups might have in common...?Men are persons.  Women are not.  So, it is easy for them to think of women and label women as others, because they never thought women were otherwise to begin with.Most five year olds would tell you that boys have a penis and girls have a vagina (extra credit to anyone who knows what film I'm referencing).  So unfortunately I cant give you an ELI5 that would make any sense to even a 5 year old.Is "I am womxn, hear me roar" gonna become a thing now?Kindergarten CopWe have a winnerWomyn and womxn and wimmen and all those other butchered versions of the word women/woman bothered me well before I even realized I was a radfem/GC.Its probably one of those earlier ways I felt apart from the libfems I knew.There have been several threads in this subreddit about what radfems think about terms like womxn or womyn and the response has been overwhelmingly negative.  Like you said, GC feminists seem to agree that we are women, we always have been women and we do not appreciate liberal feminists playing word games or redefining what woman has always meant.  Our womanhood is directly linked to our oppression and our inheritance of thousands of years of oppression.I see this often, especially with my ethnicity (well half anyway),  Latinx Nope, nope, and nope.We are being erased and told how to identify, sadly, too many women are buying into this nonsense.LatinXX.WomXXn.Kind of kidding.Also, womyn and wimmin and womon are not a butchered or lib fem versions of women or woman.  Their origins are in radical lesbian feminism, i.e., taking the men of women.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.One of the first suggestions is to get the girl a binder. She's 13. Does that really sound healthy?It sounds like now she's getting double the toxic messages: Mom is saying "you have to be a girlie girl" and friend's mom is saying "You're a boy, let's get you boy's swimming trunks!" (And being surprised that the kid was embarrassed; no shit, how many 13 year old girls want to swim topless in front of people.) Not one person is saying "You're fine the way you are."This. This is what astounds me. Why does everyone play into this nonsense? Just let people like what they like and dress how they want without making everything about being a boy and being a girl.I have friends who went to school in very progressive neighbourhoods, and so of course, they know WAY more people who identify as trans/asexual/etc. than I do (no social contagion here folks!!). They have said to me its better to let teens/children go on blockers and to buy them binders, etc. than for them to deal with it by themselves and harm their bodies. Puberty blockers are reversible anyways, if they change their minds one day.WTF???? Blockers are NOT fucking reversible and binders and all that should not be promoted. This is insanity. Why do we go to putting physical bandaids on these illnesses instead of giving children/teens the therapy that they need?They have said to me "Puberty blockers are reversible anyways, if they change their minds one day."Tell your friends that evidence suggests puberty blockers reduce IQ about ten points.Will definitely try to bring that up the next time this subject resurfaces. Thank you!Makes you wonder how enthusiastically the mother has pushed the non-binary identity on her own child.If a 13 year old girl wanted breast implants because she hated her chest size, by and large the answer would be a giant no. Why is the opposite okay? I dont get how people can convince themselves that telling 13 year old girls their body is somehow wrong is okay. I wish someone could legitimately help this child.Never comes up does it.The OP asking how to "help" this poor, unfortunate "trans boy" be "himself" just so happens to have a non-binary child of her own. What a curious coincidence. ROGD in their social group, or mom pushing trans nonsense on her kid? Or both?This person is looking for brownie points. They want to look so progressive that they're willing to mess with a child.And not just their own kid but someone else's.If, as someone further up thread suggested, she was supporting this girl to have breast implants behind her mother's back no one would be supporting it and nor would she be virtue signalling for back pats.I'm kinda glad that kid has a supportive adult in their life, regardless of how that kid identifies as she grows up. Seems she is GNC, with a very unsupportive and hostile mother.  That's gotta be awfulI read it as an enabler.Not supportive.Enabling the kid to do what?  Wear what she wants and not the girly, pink clothes her mom is forcing on her?The woman posting is posting to virtue signal, she's already Munchausen by proxy enabled her own kid to "non binary" themselves and now she's going to push the same ideology onto another kid who might be rebelling against a religious family rather than anything else.Might be rebelling against an asshole mom.  Also might be thats shes gay and gnc, or might actually truly thinks shes trans.  Dunno.  At 13 the kid might not know either.  I dont see how having an adult who is not doing much more than saying "i accept you for who you are" in her life is a terrible thing.This kid fits the pattern of little girls who are being force-fed the most awful, misogynistic aspects of womanhood and see an escape in identifying as trans.But that's not the main issue here. The bigger concern is the ~Nice Affirming OP stepping in and getting this girl into trouble. They "deadname" the kid in front of her conservative parents? They buy the kid a swimsuit? Or, god forbid, they buy the kid a binder (i.e. underwear, given to a minor by an adult)? Yeah, that puts the child in danger of being sent to a Christian education camp, which has lots in common with a prison.(I'm using 'they' for OP because I couldn't determine who was writing the post, just to be clear.)  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.How much yall want to bet its run like pimps just like the organization that started international sex workers day?  APROSEX is a member of the Global Network of Sex Work Projects,  an ex-VP of which is literally in prison in Mexico for sex trafficking.  Nearly all non profits pushing "sex as labor" ideology are members of this parent org.So there's nothing to bet on: it's a certainty that "managers" have their hands in the cookie jar.  Governments would like to get theirs in it too, the better to capitalize on transactionalized sexual abuse, since it's uhh very lucrative.You'd think the "progressives" and "leftists" supporting this stuff would connect the fucking dots but nah.sounds like they're setting them up to "consent" to whatever happens to them, "you were warned" defense.Sickening  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Teenage girls aren't representative of women.  I hope you know that on some level.  I'm sorry you were bullied.  That can be pretty difficult to deal with, even years later.It sounds like you've got a pretty interesting sister.  Do you think she's as vapid and materialistic as you view other women as being?  What is your relationship with her now?Fitness is a great hobby but what is your goal?  Do you want to be physically fit so that you can harm people?  Strength is a great attribute to have, but it isn't the only measure of a person's abilities.  Men are physically stronger for short bursts than women, but women have a greater aptitude for repetitive motion exercises.  Women also are better suited to surviving in challenging conditions such as low temperatures, famines, and illness.  Your idea of strength is limited.Do you think that the women on this subreddit are vapid and materialistic?  How do you think your image of women as vapid and materialistic shapes your behaviors toward them?  All of women haven't formed an opinion on you, nor do they fit your preconceived notions.  If you want to deal with your internalized misogyny, the first step is to challenge your own perceptions.It sounds like you've got a pretty interesting sister. Do you think she's as vapid and materialistic as you view other women as being? What is your relationship with her now?My relationship with her is great,She's a feminist in the most basic sense,she's a lesbian while also being a devout catholic(thats a topic I avoid all together with her )Fitness is a great hobby but what is your goal? Do you want to be physically fit so that you can harm people? Strength is a great attribute to have, but it isn't the only measure of a person's abilities. Men are physically stronger for short bursts than women, but women have a greater aptitude for repetitive motion exercises. Women also are better suited to surviving in challenging conditions such as low temperatures, famines, and illness. Your idea of strength is limited.I just wanted to know what it felt like to be strong,someone who could never be a victim, in societyNo such thing as never being a victim. Look at Terry Crews. A kind but very strong and physically intimidating man. He was groped by a white man at a party and ridiculed (by other black men, no less) for coming forward about the sexual assault. People asked him all the same things they ask women: why didn't you fight back, why didn't you hit him, why did you take so long to come forward, why can't you just get over it?Anyone could be victimized by someone out there. That's just the harsh reality: there is always someone who is smarter than you, stronger than you, more clever than you & perhaps all three at once.Women are not vapid or superficial as a group. Perhaps you are setting your sights on a certain "type" of woman because you don't feel like more interesting women would be interested in YOU?It sounds like you have some issues to work out. I'd seek out a feminist therapist- someone who can help you work out some of these toxic feelings with.I can relate to the OP's feelings in terms of making female friends- when you're a young woman, and not into performing femininity or talking about certain hobbies / topics it can be hard to find your own crowd. I now have a few female friends that I can count on and share interests with- but a few years ago, it was difficult dealing with being alone. 90% of women that I encountered weren't interested in anything outside of the core few hobbies they had; mainly make-up culture, discussing tv shows, taking shopping trips and learning about fashion, etc.It's not a woman-specific issue, and isn't internalized misogyny either, unless the majority of the young women in your city are uninterested in these things? Most men are the same- they are into sports, video games, or going out to drink beer and party- so I focused on finding male friends who like literature, hiking, etc instead. But it's hard to find those.I can't speak to what the majority of women in my city are interested in but it hasn't been at all difficult to find female (and male) peers who share my interests.I have to disagree that the pervasive idea about women being internalized misogyny: these are tropes about women that have been recycled over & over for years. That we are silly, fickle, vindictive, catty, etc.If you don't mind me asking, what kind of interests do you have? I'm into hiking, wall-climbing, programming, reading (historical fiction or detective novels), DIY projects, etc. I know a lot of women who like those things, but most of them aren't really interested in them / don't want to do any of these activities.Oh. I read it differently- I think OP was specifically talking about the few women that she'd met and didn't get along with. I have met plenty of women who aren't catty or fickle, but I have met quite a few who are materialistic and overly focused on appearance etc. I think the OP is meeting a lot more of that last group.I relate to some of this, the delusions of being more equal to men, physically. The dawning realization at how wrong that is, and how my perceptions of women were also wrong,  namely that they were superficial (not like other girls syndrome, where you think you are different just for having thoughts, hobbies, and interests, as if other women dont have those things). The reality is though, that I dont find value in small talk, it is superficial. Women engage me in small talk more than men do, and men tend to boast or brag or story tell during "small talk" than to ask little routine questions to others. So I had this idea like women aren't interesting, but this is an example of socialization and how we are taught to act. I needed to decouple that idea from actual superficiality and realize that women are socialized to be polite in a certain way, never be boastful or proud, and our stories aren't important so we dont bother people with them. I realize now repeated small talk attempts are trying to break the ice, but it used to frustrate because it feels phony sometimes. Because it probably is, because those women probably dont enjoy the vapid small talk any more than we do. But because it felt phony I wouldn't seek out more connection or convos, and it sort of allowed my internalized misogyny to stay and I could boost myself up by essentially infantalizing other women, who in all fairness likely picked up my not being very receptive and so didnt ever break that "small talk" barrier.  I had just conflated things in an inaccurate but socially acceptable way and now in my 30s find myself seeking out more female friends and connections, being impressed, but not entirely surprised, at the depth and strength of each woman I have made my own effort to get to know.What I would do, and am doing, is reading womens stories and experiences, really dive in and pay attention to what comes up as you go and challenge the old notions you carry. For me, once i realized I was wrong in my POV on other women,  it was almost like something inside loosened up and i could see things with more clarity. It wasn't such a stretch anymore to see the more subtle ways we are kept in line, and how we sometimes do this to each other.  Can't hurt to try but I am terrified of meeting new peopleMe too! Social situations are not my forte, and it takes me a while to get comfortable with anyone. You can also start with the women already around you. I've made a habit of just focusing on and choosing to listen to women at get togethers or wherever, where they might be part of a couple or group telling a story and usually a man takes over as official narrator, I choose eyecontact with the woman so she keeps talking. We have a side convo if the man doesn't stop. I keep doing this and find social conversations more enjoyable now on the whole lol.Do you have access to therapy?  It sounds like you might have some trauma or social anxiety a therapist could help you work through.  It might lessen the struggle of meeting new people.I went to Therapy a little while but I got bored of it and leftIt sounds like you could benefit from it still.  Maybe you weren't feeling adequately challenged, either by yourself or your therapist.  You are dealing with some quality of life issues.  Whether or not you choose to address them is up to you, but therapy is the obvious way forward.  Do you want to tackle your internalized misogyny or anxiety, because either will require effort on your part.Therapy just seems like an inconvenienceThen be honest with yourself.  Either you want to overcome your social anxiety and internalized misogyny or you don't.  There are no shortcuts.I hate small talk too! My way of breaking the ice is sharing something personal about myself. That usually opens up the conversation and makes the other woman feel comfortable sharing as well. Some of the best conversations I have had were with women I had just met. Getting to know them over a course of a single day, and bond, was great! Usually I'd just say 'If you don't mind me asking/if you're comfortable sharing' before more personal questions, so she'd know there was no pressure. My goal in communication is always to make a safe space for women to open up.My neighbour and I have had some deep and very personal discussions, I have "known" her for a year and a half now.  Shamefully..... I don't even know her name hahahaha, but pretty sure she doesn't know mine either.  But yeah, I don't know, I feel like deep and personal discussions with women I barely know is a good thing.  There are certainly women out there who will be untrustworthy, will break trust and betray us, gossip about us and share our secrets.  Of course there is a chance this will happen.  But I think that the more we trust each other, the less we will be betraying each other.  Trust begets trust I guess?  Possibly I am being naive lolMany men are vapid too, but no one comments on it. Think about all the men youve met who talk about nothing except which women they think are hot, football, beer and weed. Why are women who talk about boys, reality tv and shoes considered vapid but not these men? Because of misogyny.Go find some women who share your interests instead of judging women by the worst examples and men by the best examples.As a very petite woman, I completely understand your feelings and realizations on strength. I realized very young that I would never EVER be able to match a man in strength, and I cant even match most other women. Im very short ( Ive met maybe three people in my life who are shorter than me) and most people in a room will have some sort of a physical advantage over me. This made me feel so helpless for a very long time, but I was able to get past it by focusing on the ways that I do have an advantage over people. For instance, Im very agile. While a man might rely on his brute strength I can rely on my ability to bend and twist and leap out of almost any situation (and in my experience, most women are much more agile than men!). Another thing, is animals really like me for some reason. I can always make a friend with any animal that is near by, and Ive noticed that most animals, especially wild ones, tend to prefer women. This is not something that is valued or seen as a strength in our society, but trust me, having a strong relationship with an animal can be so powerful. Animals defend their own, and they will defend you. ( for example, I frequented a park with a lot of squirrels when I was in college, and the squirrels would always come hang out with me on the bench. One day a man came and sat next to me. He was pretty creepy and was making me very uncomfortable, and the squirrels started gathering around him and climbing all over him and scared him off! To this day its one of the craziest things that has happened to me!) Anyway, this is a very long winded way of saying that your strength might not be physical strength. There are so many ways that women are stronger than men, but they are unrecognized by our society because it is defined by men. While I definitely would encourage you to continue working out as that is good for you, I would also suggest that you explore a little bit. There are things that make you strong that you havent realized yet.I just find them so vapid and materialistic and they don't particularly like me eitherI wonder why.Oof first problem is how you view other girls. No one wants to be friends with someone who thinks they are "vapid" like damn way to generalizeI don  t see how any of this is related to internalized misogyny? I also have issues with making female friends because most of the women I met come off as materialistic and vapid to me- that  s because most young people nowadays are materistic and vapid. (It  s always been like that- they  re young, most of us have nothing better to do.) I just find women and men who don  t behave like that, and are more like me.If you want to wear "male" clothes, that isn  t an issue- they  re just articles of clothing. I wear clothing that fits- so mostly female pants because I  m short and have broad hips, and male t-shirts because they fit better and I  m a small cup size. It  s really no problem, and hardly anyone cares. Do as you please.It isn  t true that a male coach potato is stronger than a woman who works out at the gym- that  s ridiculous. If you want to be able to beat people in hand-to-hand combat, you should learn a type of martial arts that focuses on that- e.g. Krav Maga. I don  t understand the focus on physical strength anyway- I  m in STEM and most men aren  t any more capable because they can lift a table or whatever.If you want to feel better about yourself and build confidence- you need to accomplish things that you care to accomplish. If anxiety is a big issue, get medicated! You deserve to live your life, void of having to care so much about how strong some men are or how mean some teenagers used to be to you.it's not true that a male couch potato is stronger than a woman who works out at the gymI have heard stories of tall athletic women being unable to arm wrestle their shorter/less athletic male friends. Women who work out or who are heavier being pinned by their skinny boyfriends who weight 50lbs less than them. Don't spread lies that can get women hurt. Male strength is no fucking joke.There are very few women on this earth that eat and train at the level that would make them a match for an out of shape man with equivalent weight and height. I have seen the strength changes puberty brings in my own family members. Male and female body composition, from bone density down to the muscle fibers, are different. There is a reason sports are sex segregated and not only organized by weight class. I'm not saying women should live in fear of 'getting hurt' but smaller/less visibly muscular men are stronger than women in the same way that a 100lb dog could easily overpower a 150lb human if it wanted to.I don't care if you think it's 'fear mongering', women have the right to know that if a man chooses to be violent with them that it is unlikely they will be able to defend themselves with their bare hands. This should determine who they let into their lives and who they choose to be intimate with. They should know to be careful around men who show even the faintest of violent tendencies because it can get ugly quick.This is independent of how much she works out, so unless you're encouraging women to get on steriods, yes it is false that a very fit woman is stronger than the average man. Maybe she could beat him because she has the training or knows self defense strategies, but we are talking about strength.I have seen the strength changes puberty brings in my own family members. Male and female body composition, from bone density down to the muscle fibers, are different. There is a reason sports are sex segregated and not only organized by weight class. I'm not saying women should live in fear of 'getting hurt' but smaller/less visibly muscular men are stronger than women in the same way that a 100lb dog could easily overpower a 150lb human if it wanted to.I agree with this. Like I said, I am aware of the physical differences between men and women.I don't care if you think it's 'fear mongering', women have the right to know that if a man chooses to be violent with them that it is unlikely they will be able to defend themselves with their bare hands. This should determine who they let into their lives and who they choose to be intimate with. They should know to be careful around men who show even the faintest of violent tendencies because it can get ugly quick.I agree with this as well. Youve missed the point I was trying to make- if OP wants to feel safer in her own skin, she should maximize the stength she can have. If you take Krav Maga lessons, you also learn to be more confident and calmer in the face of adversity. OP isn't asking "how do I defeat all men in combat?"If some drunk guy at a party stumbles into you and starts grabbing at your chest while laughing, it can be useful to be able to flip him onto his back. That isn't impossible as a woman. Unless I suddenly don't classify as a woman anymore, because I can handle fighting certain men lmao.This is independent of how much she works out, so unless you're encouraging women to get on steriods, yes it is false that a very fit woman is stronger than the average man. Maybe she could beat him because she has the training or knows self defense strategies, but we are talking about strength.How is telling someone to learn martial arts so they can feel better about themselves and are more capable of protecting themselves the same thing as saying she should take steroids. Are you a very fit woman yourself? Or is this more anecdotal evidence? I am strong, and I dont use steroids, and can beat most untrained men. Is that something that makes me a non-woman or what?  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.I'd have to do research into what groups backed the changes in the past, I'm afraid I don't have that information off the top of my head, only some of the more recent (past 5 years or so) info.But as to how TQ+ got added, and why LGBT allowed it, you have to go back to the late 90s and the first decade of the 2000s.Third-wave feminism joined forces with the LGBT mantras of "acceptance" and "inclusion" and "hearts not parts", although LGB still had a ways to go to reach "born this way" levels. All of it, even feminism, was becoming more mainstream and acceptable on a social level, because technology and the internet was exploding so messages were reaching the masses for the first time. T was accepted as a part of LGBT because no one believed you were actually changing sex. We may not have known gender and sex were different yet, but everyone knew and accepted biology. Back then, there were 2 versions of T:Transsexual: someone who embraced gender-bending and non-conformity for sexual pleasure or fetish purposes. Rarely, it could also be someone who presented in clubs or LGB gatherings as the opposite sex, but remained their biological sex otherwise.Trans (without "gender" or "sexual"): someone who wanted to live life permanently presenting as the opposite sex. They had surgery when affordable, and otherwise did everything they could cosmetically to appear as the opposite sex.The trans people I knew back then were male, usually gay but every now-and-again bi. So they were already part of the LGB community, and expressing a preference for sexual activities or outward expression. Gay men in social scenes often referred to each other using female-associated terms, so "she" and the like were normal, but it also didn't matter if someone said "he" because everyone knew they were male. Even the trans person would say it about themselves.Q became a part of it slowly, as "queer" was reclaimed by some in the LGB community. It was taking back the slur and owning it as a different way of expressing they were homosexual, sort of like an identity. It was reserved strictly for gay men and lesbians. As the early 2000s rolled on and became the teens, both Q and T goalposts moved. By then those letters were already so enmeshed in LGB that the change in meaning either wasn't or couldn't be fought against. And since then, the alphabet soup was born.I personally believe the change was due to a saturation of young (teens to 20s) hetero people claiming the letters to feel a part of a community they were different from but desperately wanted to be accepted by. "Fag-hags" and the men who want to be with them are the first that come to mind as Q. But someone who was active in the community in the teens can speak better about it - I bailed in the mid-to-late 2000s when I noticed discrimination and misogyny among the community.Thank you for the detailed reply. My experience was very similar with yours. I was involved in many LGB groups when younger and drifted as life got in the way. In my early 30s I came across a lot of the debates on tumblr and was confused by what I was seeing and tried to find the sources of this new mindset without much luck. My experience with feminism was reading a lot from second wave voices (late 70s-early 90s) much of it spiritual, so I never knew much of third or fourth wave ideals.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Text:Its a common complaint these days that people find themselves politically homeless  usually because of Brexit. But its also something that is happening to feminists. The Right is starting to look a far more appealing place for women than the Left, who have screwed this up all by themselves  just like they have with the formerly loyal and now lost Jewish vote  for their own psychologically murky reasons.Last year 300 women resigned from the Labour Party because it allows female-identifying men to stand on all-women shortlists. Previously, we saw the grotesque spectacle of Corbyns Labour Party holding sex-segregated election rallies in constituencies with high Muslim populations.This fits in with the broader masculinist culture of Corbyns party  Brocialism, defined by the website Urban Dictionary as the political, social, and economic ideology of those who claim to have Socialist or Communist leanings, but whose behaviour or beliefs are hypocritically sexist.Theres something weird about calling a 70-year-old who resembles Old Man Steptoe The Absolute Boy as though hes some sort of superannuated scamp thwarting the attempts of bossy females  Stupid woman!  to control him. And who has promoted highest, of the few females in his Shadow Cabinet, a woman he used to have sex with and who is not  through no fault of her own  up to this demanding job.While Diane Abbott may accuse Question Time of legitimising the abuse she has received since last appearing on it, Labour women who have resisted the Corbyn cult such as Jess Phillips have admitted that the abuse they get from their alleged allies is far worse than it has ever been from their Conservative opponents. Angela Eagle was shocked to get homophobic hatred from Corbynites whereas the Tories adore Ruth Davidson.And theres the little matter of the Conservatives having had two female leaders while Labour repeatedly promotes inferior men to the post.When did it become an article of faith that feminism belongs with the Left anyway? The suffragettes, after all, had a great deal of crossover with the Womens Christian Temperance Union.Mrs Pankhurst  a Tory, whose feminism and temperance was informed by her work as a social worker in the East End seeing the awful effects of male drunkenness on wives and children  was keen on the slogan Votes For Women And Chastity For Men. As most things did  drugs, hair, the Beatles  feminism appears to have lost its way in the late Sixties and early Seventies when it was conflated with other struggles.A generation of females who were warned by Black Panther Stokely Carmichael in 1966 that the only position for women in the struggle is prone should not have been surprised that the IRA hid a rape culture  as the Republican Mira Cahill finally revealed last year  or that Sandinista hero Daniel Ortega allegedly raped his teenage stepdaughter while claiming it was her revolutionary duty. (A court case was brought but fell beyond the statute of limitations.)As the ongoing revelations about the multitudes of rapacious males working in the humanitarian sector shows, its all too common for men whove ticked the Brotherhood Of Man box on the spiritual census to believe that this gives them carte blanche to behave like utter creeps towards women.If socialists can get into bed with these dubious allies, why not feminists with the Conservative US think-tank the Heritage Foundation, as the charismatic Posie Parker (a scourge of the trans activists) and her girl-gang did on a recent trip to Washington?Clinging to a belief system which repeatedly downgrades you is masochistic madness. If the personal is political, why are we expected to leave abusive personal relationships yet stay in abusive political alliances? Women  so long the put-upon jam-tomorrow handmaids of the Left  have had enough; when the facts  and the friends  change, so must feminism.That is nowhere near as scathingly funny as Id expect from Julie Burchill. It doesnt even read like her style! I guess the Telegraph editors were heavy-handed.She makes a fair point. I dont want to ally with the right, but the misogyny on the left is nearly as bad.The political compass needs shaking up. The current system serves no one and especially not women.Posie Parker doesn't represent me or radical feminism. Feminism is incompatible with the right-wing which is inherently patriarchal and with fucking Christianity. Posie Parker being chummy with the Heritage Foundation is a fucking embarrassment. Why not go have a pint with the DUP whilst we're at it?At least she's doing something and people are listening. The left isn't giving any of us a platform. I stand with Posie.I feel like I have no fucking choice at this point. The Left GETS US ARRESTED BY POLICE OUT OF SPITE. They expose us to cop brutality and harassment (they do rape and molest women) while banging on about restorative justice. They get us fired from our jobs, dox us, all that shit. If right wingers are willing to listen, I'm willing to speak. They may come out with better info about what patriarchy is and isn't, along with abortion.My right to speak has already been curbed. I'm not going to shut up anywhere I don't have to.Not in a thousand years would you catch me voting Tory, but Labour and the Lib Dems arent giving me any motivation to vote for them either. Politically, Im toast right now.All I ever wanted was a nice middle of the road democratic socialist whod keep us in the EU and support womens rights - but my parents always warned me about having unrealistic expectation.Articles like these make me wonder if a push to build an international feminist party is viable, especially if we're going to keep radical feminism at the core.The Right is starting to look a far more appealing place for women than the Left, who have screwed this up all by themselvesNever.I'd rather form a new party.The Right in the USA has destroyed so many safety nets.  The Right is starting to look a far more appealing place for women than the Left,Never. Not practically or morally. I will remain a socialist for my whole life. We must stop the left from this. Any suggestion that we hook the rightwing is absurdYes, the solution is for all of us socialists to make it clear that gender ideology is a combination of regressive patriarchal gender enforcement and neoliberal individualist bs and we is contradicted by material analysis.Can you paste the text? I love it when Julie Burchill goes on the attack.Seconded!I don't understand how feminists can have loyalty to Corbyn. Is it because he's left-wing? Corbyn =/= the left.The left in Labour are the more small c convervative section when it comes to tradition. They look to the past. A preference for male leaders and a male-centred view is related to this. Brocialism is a weirdly backward-looking phenomenon.This means that stalwarts like Corbyn don't know what to do when it comes to gender issues. They didn't have to think about this in 1983, and they cba thinking about it now. So they listen to TRAs over women because men.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.I noticed that once I started hanging out with the college atheletes a lot of them were dateable lesbians and inherently "TERFs" in their beliefs even if they dont realize it.You're not the only one having this problem, and honestly, I ask myself the same questions everyday.I personally try not to talk about my views until I'm sure that the people around me are safe and have enough common sense not to yell "TERF". "Pretending to be a potted plant", as my mom puts it. Drop questions here and there, to assess the situation, that kind of thing.Idk if it'd last long on here, and I'm no good at moderation, but I love the idea of a radfem dating subreddit for women interested in women! (A private one of course)Try a sport or another hobby that is not about being LGBT. I'm not in college but I am that age, and I've made most of my friends from being involved in activities that are not based on any identity traits.I never joined them for that reason, I made friends although I wouldn't dare trying to date these people though. Not wanna make fool of myselfI have the exact same problem. Year after year everyone in the lgbt club puts on a full show of believing in special gender labels. I'm also around art people a lot and even if they're not same-sex attracted they often have a special label for themselves.I don't really have an answer except find someone who doesn't talk about it all the time. Then it's easier to hide your own opinions about it at least.Well, not everyone who goes to the LGBT club is into trans rights, labels and special feels. I met my girlfriend there and, although she's not full radfem, she still thinks that all the gender stuff is getting ridiculous. Life happens and the both of us found better things to do than going there, but if I was single and looking for someone I'd still give it a tryMy sister's sporty and has an endless stream of girlfriends.Be aware that many women might just be playing along. If you watch carefully, maybe be you can tell whos a full-throated trans women are women type or of another unsavory type (e.g,, women with a special label who are simply heterosexual). I work on a college campus, there are plenty of women who are a special kind of straight, but many who are just regular ol lesbians, but you wouldnt necessarily know unless you got to know them better.Yep, this is me. Of course I respect pronouns of others and I never speak ill of the whole thing, but underneath all of that I am highly critical of gender ideology. Very few people know that about me though  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.  It was probably the Huffington Post?https://m.huffpost.com/us/entry/us_4169651?guccounter=1The article says that both women and men use indirect relational aggression but women are more likely to suffer severe consequences.https://www.researchgate.net/publication/7677457_An_Integrated_Review_of_Indirect_Relational_and_Social_AggressionThis one is an actual study and mentions different types of aggressions.  I think these might be what you're looking for.The study: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/AB.21563An article with a Q&A with the author: https://www.macleans.ca/society/qa-are-boys-even-more-mean-than-mean-girls/Author of a study on relational aggression, found boys use tactics such as rumours and social exclusion to hurt others more often than their female counterpartsThe complexities involves in FtM pregnancy (especially with regards to hormones) mean that very few FtMs actually get pregnant.  Let alone how many of them want to be pregnant.  I know plenty of FtMs and none of them have any desire to have offspring.  I never understood why, if there's so much dysphoria to begin with, an FtM would do the one thing that symbolizes womanhood more than anything.  Being able to simply change genders but still having the ability to remain pregnant tells you that...well...you still might be female?  All this pregnant FtM thing does is undermine the woman's struggle for reproductive rights by erasing the unique biological experience, and enable MtFs who pretend to care about these women for five minutes.Also, which bathroom does a pregnant FtM use?  Still want to be one of the guys?I do know a couple of self ID FTMs who've been pregnant. It's not uncommon at all. T can be interrupted. And most self ID FTMs in the world aren't on T.The main thing that characterizes ever single FTM individual that I have ever met is that they are super people pleasing. The world likes men more than women? No problem! I'll be one! The world wants female people to have babies? No problem! I'll get on that right now!Despite the fact that most FTMs report being interested in stereotypically male professions, an overwhelming number of FTMS work in the service industry. Again: Compulsive people pleasing.But in one case I know of, I strongly suspect that the decision to get pregnant was in part a way to justify delaying T. I know that many FTMs are secretly existentially terrified of actually going on T. Getting pregnant is an out: "Oh. I really really want to go on T. I'd do it this moment. But I want a biological child. So I have to do that first."How do I know this? Because I've heard it first hand from detransitioned women, including women who claimed, when they went on T, that they couldn't wait another minute. In many cases that "I can't wait another minute" is really a desire for the existential dread to end. To just get it over with. Like a death row victim wanting to move up their execution date.The main thing that characterizes ever single FTM individual that I have ever met is that they are super people pleasing. The world likes men more than women? No problem! I'll be one!Wow. You can add my FtM teenage stepdaughter to that list  thats always been one of her defining personality characteristics, shes a people pleaser. Interesting insight. She gets a lot more positive social feedback for being a trans boy than she ever got is a lesbian girl thats for certain.She gets a lot more positive social feedback for being a trans boy than she ever got is a lesbian girl thats for certain.I hope she hasn't started medicalization yet. One of the worst things is seeing people post surgery, in pain, being "good patients." See every FTM post mastectomy video on youtube just about ever. If the misogyny of this movement weren't bad enough, I think that the normalization of pain is one of the most surreal things I've ever seen.The main thing that characterizes ever single FTM individual that I have ever met is that they are super people pleasing. The world likes men more than women? No problem! I'll be one! The world wants female people to have babies? No problem! I'll get on that right now!That's something I noticed when I identified as a man, that so many FTMs exhibited so much female socialization. Which, yes, all girls absorb to one degree or another, but that behaviorally, I saw so much stereotypical feminine behaviors even in women who were genuinely non-conforming from early on (not even talking about those who wear dresses and make-up but want you to call them Phil). Then again, anyone with a lick of sense and a dgaf approach to social approval would not last long in the queer community. I sure as hell didn't.That's interesting.  Maybe it's just the circles I'm in...may also be my age lolDamn...those poor women. Ive only met one TiF, a very young woman in her early 20s,shes had top surgery only and doesnt take hormones. I only knew her briefly and very casually, so never got into a deep discussion. Shes also a cutter, so theres a lot going on with her. Forget identity; let's talk biology. The only people who need access to abortion are females.This is so backward. Instead of neutralizing our language and erasing the biological reality that only female humans can get pregnant, we should be reminding TIFs that they need female-specific health care and if they retain their reproductive organs, yes, they can get pregnant. Because they may "identify" as men and present in a masculine manner but they are still FEMALE. I remember posters from the sexual health clinic I used to visit in my twenties explaining this pretty clearly - i.e., you still need regular Pap test and other gynaecological care, even if you identify as trans. Those posters were intended to educate people to keep them healthy and safe. It disturbs me that this would now be considered transphobic.FFS, can we maybe focus on actually achieving and securing reproductive freedom before we worry about "queering" it? i have to get off my phone when i see things like thisNo, they just can't bear it when they don't have access to something women doTIMs are men. Men don't get pregnant. But they want to control women that do, this is Orwellian. It makes women incubators, and is a man's rights argument. Once women get pregnant from rape, the 'rapist-father' can stop abortion or a child free woman that gets pregnant can be forced to carry to term.They want TIMs to be recognized as 'having periods' too. This has already gone too far.Nah, it's about women who transition. The whole period thing in that school was about them too... at least I hope lol  Please don't legitimise these fantasists by using their language.  No one can "transition" from one sex to another.edit: spellingI guess my response would be "...so what?"How about just doing some actual advocacy work?Why make this confusing? Gender identities don't have babies, sexed bodies do.This is insulting.In America, the right is constantly trying to take away women's access to healthcare, and that doesn't just mean abortion. The Trump administration is trying to make preventative care harder to obtain, the Supreme Court only narrowly voted to block Louisiana's near-total ban, with Kavanaugh opining in his dissent that he wanted to watch the law make women suffer before reaching a decision. Roe v Wade being overturned this year is a real, frightening possibility. Sure, it won't criminalize abortion in states where the governor's office and legislature are liberal-controlled, but that leaves the majority of the country at risk.Women are second-class citizens when it comes to most aspects of American life, women are often dismissed by doctor's when they discuss health concerns. A young woman's life-threatening brain tumor was dismissed as "stress" until it nearly killed her.Stop using language that erases 50% of the people on the planet. That is straight-up Orwellian.I've always found it difficult to understand how a woman can claim gender dysphoria, that they are really men inside, then go and get pregnant. Shouldn't that be the last thing they want? Wouldn't that cause catastrophic dysphoria? Why claim you're a man then go off and fufill an unbelievably womanly role?This is just stupid and insane.If only there was a word for people that have vaginas.... hmmm maybe "female"? Nah too "TERFY". Let's just call them people with vaginas. Words having meanings is kinda bigoted after all.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.It's because TRA leaders and movers are upper middle class white heterosexual men and there's not much that can't be accomplished when that particular social group wants something. This sub wouldn't exist if TIMs were still mostly homosexual transsexuals from poor backgrounds.  Yes, I agree. But I'm wondering if it can't be both.Well, I've considered that some TRAs are actually plants meant to destroy the left, so... yeah, I think this is part of it. ... Mostly  I think of it as a "perfect storm," where a lot of different purposes are being served and people are drawn in for a lot of different reasons.Frankly at least the US gov knows it can operate with impunity in nearly every way so I doubt they would put much effort into pushing this topic. I personally believe there are financial interests involved leading the charge on the trans lobby.Fun fact- if you look at photos of YPG fighters in North Syria, they often wear scarves in their head and they do it with the expressed desire of showing solidarity with women who are forced to do the same. Thats because north Syria/Rojava is part of an anarcho feminist project that emphasizes equality for women. Ive seen many men in that movement wear flowered scarves in their heads. You can probably google male YPG and wearing scarf and find images of this.Yep, when I see mainstream muslim men start wearing hijabs, then I'll be supportive of women wearing them from a feminist perspective. That's super cool about the anarcho feminist project though--thanks for informing us!Men in Iran have been wearing hijab in solidarity with women.The Hijab and Burqa are some horrific outward signs of oppression.And it's disingenuous and counterproductive for the left to pretend otherwise. Centrist people are turned away from the left, because a subset of the left tells them their instinct to be disturbed when they see women in forced covering (particularly burqa) is racist.It's worse because it's legally mandated in several countries.No one's getting murdered, imprisoned or having acid thrown in her face for not wearing sexy clothing in the West.  The idea that there is extra clothing women have to wear that men don't is almost universalAs a woman who's lived in several different countries, this is news to me. If anything, I can wear less than men on some occasions - like on a hot day, women in the office can wear sandals and skirts, while men have to wear long-sleeved shirts, shoes and long pants... The bikini top is about the only thing I can think of, and it does piss me off, yeah.there's nothing instrinsically worse about a headscarf than similarly inconvenient items of clothing.Maybe go to the ex-muslim subreddit and read all the posts by (often Western-born) girls who are forced by their families to wear the hijab and are dying to take it off, to not have their ears covered at all times, feel the wind in their hair, to try different hairstyles... Or check out the hashtag #freefromhijab and #whitewednesdays on twitter, where women from muslim countries risk their lives and freedom, taking their hijab in public and posting pictures online knowing some of them will probably be arrested. Go and tell them they're overreacting and there's not much difference between the scarf they're forced to wear at all times (and sometimes get screamed at and threatened by strangers on the street if there's some hair peeking out from under the scarf) and your "high-cut top".If the bikini top pisses you off, why aren't you refusing to wear it?Well I never wear bikinis in general as I don't go to the beach or pool, I wasn't talking about myself but about the laws around the world. Not sure what your assumption that I'm not refusing to wear it is based on... Being topless is actually perfectly legal where I live. What's your point?True, I was assuming that if you did go to the pool you would choose not to go topless. Shouldn't have done that, sorry!Oh, I wouldn't go topless lol, unless far away from home... maybe. Doesn't mean the laws make sense to me, plenty of women dgaf and should be allowed to go topless just like men are.Women are not put to death by stoning if they do not wear long skirts and high cut tops.If you really thought this was about being put to death by stoning, you wouldn't be encouraging women to take off their hijab and risk death by stoning.What!? I didn't encourage anyone to do anything. LOLYou compared the hijab to wearing skirts and high cut tops. I pointed out that it's a false equivalency because women get stoned to death for not following the dictated rules for how to dress and therefore must wear the hijab. No such threat exists for women who don't wear skirts and high cut tops. Where was I encouraging women to take off their hijab?The OP was encouraging women not to wear hijab. The false equivalency is in comparing stoning with what the OP is talking about. Her post rests on the assumption that there are women who can decide whether or not they're going to wear a veil. Otherwise there wouldn't even be a debate about it being a choice. She's not talking to the women who are living under the control of the Taliban, she's talking to the women who live in relatively free countries. A woman in the US, Europe, or even Bangladesh (where Taslima Nasrin is from) is operating in a different context. She's not going to get stoned if she doesn't wear a headcovering.The Shabaab banned bras in Somalia and whipped women found wearing them. That had no bearing on what it meant to wear a bra in the US. Similarly, the meaning of the hijab in the US is closer to to the meaning of long skirts or head coverings in Orthodox Christian, Orthodox Jewish, and other conservative subcultures.I made it clear that I was not talking about the niqab or the burka. I have worn high heels before on rare and uncomfortable occasions, and I've worn a scarf wrapped around my head to keep warm on cold days. The latter is cumbersome, the former is horrible. I'd choose the scarf over the heels in a heartbeat.  "Whatever anti-women bullshit you learned, unlearn it now". Fucking preach itTheres a person in one of my leftist feminist groups who is a white trans woman who converted to Islam and wears the hijab willingly.  I find it odd.  Went from a white, Canadian, atheist, straight man to a white, Canadian, Muslim, lesbian, trans woman very quickly. I mean people can convert to whatever they want, idc, but it was one of the biggest whiplash conversions Ive seen., but it was one of the biggest whiplash conversions Ive seen.Hold my beer!There was a Neo Nazi who converted to Islam, then murdered his roommates when they "disrespected" his new religious beliefs.People are so very strange.Ok yeah thats a bigger 180 A lot of converts behave this way.  They become the most devout person in the house of worship.As to the niqab, we had a kerfuffle about that in Canada and the leader of the NDP (then, Thomas Mulcair) decided to play oppositional politics instead of defending women.  When then-PM Harper came out against the niqab, Mulcair came out in favour, saying it was a matter of choice.  The cultural ignorance and stupidity encompassed in that stance enraged me.  I was a member of the Young New Democrats at 14 and remained a New Democrat for 40 years, even serving as an assistant to a member of the provincial legislature.  But this sheer stupidity on the part of Mulcair was so disgusting to me, I couldn't support it.  To compound it, the provincial party has a transgender Vice-President (the infamous, litigious and TERF-slurring asshole, Morgane Oger).  The party is very fond of message-boxing members of the party, elected members and anyone connected at the administrative level, but her obnoxious behavior goes unremarked.  They've yet to respond to an open letter from Feminist Current, asking that Oger be censured.  A minister where I live recently spoke out about this and even though everyone is angry at her she's standing her ground!https://montrealgazette.com/news/quebec/quebec-minister-for-women-stands-by-belief-that-hijabs-are-oppressive  This promoting hijab in the West bullshit has backfired and will continue to do so... although I've read about a Texas school that had little girls put on a hijab for World hijab day (last week) to encourage them to be open-minded about a different culture or some bs like that, what a fucking jokeSaudi Ex-Muslim: 'World Hijab Day insults millions of women'https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rinrVlrQ4g0Holy fuck I would be down there so damn fast if this was my kids school. Jfc.Was it the same teacher who had the black girl put on a slave collar when they were talking about slavery in early America?What the fuck?! Tell me you're joking, please!https://boston.cbslocal.com/2017/10/19/black-girl-on-leash-photo-bridgewater-plimoth-plantation/Not joking, but i did fuck up the context.  They put her on a leash because puritans...?  My brain remembered it as a lesson about slavery probably because thats exactly wtf it looks like.Yup. If humans were born into egalitarian society and could wear whatever they want, no one would choose burqa (unless perhaps it was freezing cold out and you were trying to protect from the elements). Its a very unnatural type of clothing and seems uncomfortable in warm climates.Exactly.  Even if women "choose" to wear the niqab or burka, choices don't exist in a vacuum.I have a friend who converted to Islam (not for a partner, of her own volition) who eventually chose to cover. She 100 percent does not have to cover.  She feels it is an outward sign of how important her faith is to her.It's the women who come from places where they are forced to cover who have the most issues with it.And to be fair if you scratch some of those places you get historical incidences of women who had spent their whole lives living in segregated spaces and only ever going out of them veiled, being FORCED to unveil and having their veils torn off them in public. That happened in Iran. There are some very powerful and disturbing photos of Algerian women forced to reveal their faces by French military. Zip forward a few years and you get religious fundamentalism, spearheaded by men who might well be the sons of those very women who remember their mothers being insulted and hurt. It's just a horrible carousel of oppressions (gosh and who is at the centre of them hmmm who gets harmed every time hmmmm)Being forced to do anything against your will is the problem. Forcing people to do anything is the problem. Women  bear the brunt of it regardless.Ive heard (and I very well could be wrong) that it does not say anywhere in the Koran that women must cover their head and/or faces. It reminds me of growing up southern baptist as a little girl and being told women must wear dresses. I asked wear does God command that? I was shown bible verses that talk about women not appearing as men or something along those lines. I was so confused. Is a dress really the only thing keeping that distinction separate? Also didnt the ancient Christians have death as a punishment for not going to worship? Why are we listening to them?!? Lol stuff I thought about while I was sitting in service as a child.Yeah, it doesn't. It just says both sexes should be modest and that women in particular should cover their bosoms. END OF.Mohammed eventually instructed his wives to wear veils (which were marks of upperclassness at the time also) so people would stop going "oh hai I see you're one of the prophet's wives can you ask him to do this thing for me". In other words for them not to be hassled. But over time it became cool for all Muslim women to veil ... and it also unfortunately falls to male imams to interpret what "modest" means. Which is why some Muslimas will not veil, some will just wear a scarf, and others wouldn't step outside the door without a niqab and gloves and the whole nine yards. It's tied up with cultural conventions too of course - Muslims are not the only people who historically wear veiling or other "cover".so people would stop going "oh hai I see you're one of the prophet's wives can you ask him to do this thing for me". In other words for them not to be hassledGot a source for this? This is not how most people I've read talking about this understand this line, not at all.O Prophet, tell your wives and your daughters and the women of the believers to bring down over themselves [part] of their outer garments. That is more suitable that they will be known and not be abused. And ever is Allah Forgiving and Merciful.To me it's pretty clear what kind of abuse we're talking about here.  It seems there's no actual Muslims commenting here so I'll explain from a Muslim POV. Muslims follow the Qur'an and hadith, a lot of the core things which Muslim do, e.g. pray five times a day and know how those prayers are done, come from the hadith. The hadith are the sayings and actions from the prophet Muhammad and first generation of Muslims so you can actually see they understood/interpreted the Qur'an. The Qur'an instructs women to wear a khimar, you can check what this item of clothing looks like on google images. It is also verified using hadith how women interpreted this verse and it's clear they understood it to cover their hair and bosom.Some Muslim women also believe the entire face should be covered or it is better to do so under some circumstances. This is so far a minority view in Islamic theology. It should be noted that when the hijab is mentioned in Islamic text, it is also similarly mentioned that men should avert their gaze from women to avoid lusting over them, that's not a woman's responsibility to enforce - men are commanded to do this. If they're not doing this and having lustful thoughts and that's resulting in them sexually assaulting women, that's their guilt alone.I'm aware of everything you wrote. That's theory. What it looks like in practice is that you have entire countries where women are forced to cover up and face harsh punishments if they disobey, while men do whatever the fuck they want - kinda tends to happen when you tell half the population that the word of god is the other half is deficient in intelligence, worth half as much as them, and needs to be obedient to them and can be beaten into submission if they fear their arrogance. Not even observe it... just fear it. All in the quran and the hadith as well, as you probably know.That's not true either, they are some households of course where every female is a hijabi or niqabi and there's strong pressure to adhere to such codes. There's only two places where the hijab is enforced: Iran and Taliban-ruled Afghanistan. It was enforced in Saudi Arabia until recently when MbS stripped the religious police of their authority to do this. In practice, across the Muslim world families are a mix of hijabis and non-hijabis and there's cyclical waves of the hijab being more prominent (we're currently in one) and it being less popular. In a lot of Western countries, the hijab is more common among younger females than it is among older Muslim women, most older Muslim women in the UK for example don't wear it whereas younger ones do.The cultural thing doesn't run either, in every single Muslim country, the women in the media don't wear hijab, almost every billboard you'll see advertising something will have a non-hijabi female on it, the most famous Muslim women are non-hijabis, the exception is YouTubers where there's actual hijabi personalities. No doubt some individuals may feel an atmosphere of fear stemming from their families who follow Islam in a certain way but I regularly hear white people pretending to know what the atmosphere is like in these countries without knowing a single thing about what it's actually like living there.I'll have a look, but it's one of the hadiths I believe.It's all discussed in Fatema Mernissi's Veil and the Male Elite.one of the prophet's wivesThe fact that this is said so casually & just accepted in so many faiths is deeply upsetting in itself.  All religion is sexist but the ones that feature "prophets" (like Warren Jeffs) who have multiple wives are especially vile.(I can't see the French ripping mourning veils off Catholic women for some reason. )If we completely ban head coverings in a supposed attempt to liberate Muslim women we end up oppressing them further by forcing them never leave their houses. It's such a sad twist.Not if you tie social incentives and make the road easy for these women.In one country (Germany I believe) they have classes specifically for women refugees which  I believe they have to attend (benefits are tied to them so the men have to agree). Anyway said classes are all about providing them with options for independence and access to resources.Incredible how liberals rationalize this barbaric patriarchal religion into some kind of progressive accepting phenomenon.Fuuuuuuccckkkk religious fundamentalism, especially Islam, has never served women and never will.Men do, when they can use it as part of their fetish or to get close to vulnerable women.Exactly, like this guy "UK's first trans Muslim" who wears hijab. In the article, he also says he married a man he met on a dating site and though he never disclosed his trans status to that person, assumes they know about it because "he must have seen my scars" even though he admits they have only seen one another twice after the marriage.https://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/09/04/lucy-vallender-uk-transgender-muslim-woman-territorial-army_n_3868479.htmlYeah, I've seen that happen and it's gross. As if the culture and oppression of brown women don't get fetishised enough.Or when they are trying to be  undercoverAfaik the main function of veils was to distinguish between married high status women (don't rape) from slaves and prostitutes (up for grabs). I feel like this aspect is often neglected when the reasoning for veiling is being discussed and probably why so many men as well as unveiled women feel passionate about the subject. The men married to unveiled women don't like that "their" women who are also "respectable" are marked as up for grabs by bringing veiled women into the mix. (Married women losing their head coverings in Europe is a fairly recent event so I think it's still in the cultural memory.)Lower class muslim women still don't desire to be harassed, attacked, or raped.  The choice is simple, wear a cover or be more likely to get sexually assaulted by random males on the street.  That is hardly a choice at all.  There's nothing "empowering" about forcible coverings beside the fact you have a lower likelihood of getting assaulted in public.Where did you get that from? Sounds interestingThe Veil and the Male Elite, by Fatema MernissiFYI, the reasoning behind hijab is the concept of awrah:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intimate_parts_in_IslamFor men that means between the knee and the navel, for women it means the whole body minus hands and face. :puke:The "revelation" that women must cover themselves is the doing of Mo's friend Umar:'A'isha reported that the wives of Allah's Messenger (may peace be upon him) used to go out in the cover of night when they went to open fields (in the outskirts of Medina) for easing themselves. 'Umar b Khattab used to say: Allah's Messenger, ask your ladies to observe veil, but Allah's Messenger (may peace be upon him) did not do that. So there went out Sauda, daughter of Zarn'a, the wife of Allah's Messenger (may peace be upon him), during one of the nights when it was dark. She was a tall statured lady. 'Umar called her saying: Sauda, we recognise you. (He did this with the hope that the verses pertaining to veil would be revealed.) 'A'isha said: Allah, the Exalted and Glorious, then revealed the verses pertaining to veil.https://wikiislam.net/wiki/Revelation_of_the_Hijab#Umar_bin_Al-Khattab.27s_InvolvementIf you look into Islam it's really obvious how many of those revelations supposedly sent by a god were just moods of the pedo and his followers. Even his child wife commented on it. (All religions have this, but in Islam it's more obvious because of the ahadith recounting it.)How do people respond to the "telling women what to wear is as discriminatory as telling women what not to wear" comments. My go to has been "they've been indoctrinated since birth to wear it and face rape or even murder for not wearing it". Ive been met with " Western feminists have been indoctrinated with makeup or bras since they were born so how is it any different". I always say, well ya, and western feminism is it's own beast,but they're not getting raped/beat/murdered for not wearing makeup or a bra. This never seems to sway the person to my side. Is there a better way to counter that argument? Imo basically men are telling us to be covered vs. Men are trying to pornify us and I just can't find the right wordsIt's different because Western women can forgo bra's and make-up without their husbands, fathers, the government or their religious leaders beating them up/arresting them for it. The physical punishment for not wearing make up or a bra in Western society is almost non-existent compared to the punishment for not wearing headcoverings in Islamic cultures. It is also different because make up and bra's are not a punishment for male predatory behavior, something hijabs are. By wearing a hijab or forcing someone else to wear one, you, as a woman, are accepting a punishment or are punishing a woman for predatory behavior of men. I mean, not wearing a hijab in Saudi-Arabia is not the same as not wearing make-up in Sweden. Maybe that'll sway em?Also, do they think Muslim women don't wear make-up or bra's? Because I wore more make-up as a hijabi then I ever do as a radfem.Thank you for your response. I've said this as my argument and they've said, well that doesn't happen in the west. I've cited honour killings and the fact 40% of women coming to our domestic violence shelters are Muslim and they've just said, those incidents don't say they're because of hijab or burka. Im likely just trying to enlighten idiots is what I've come up with.Western women can forgo bra's and make-up without their husbands, fathers, the government or their religious leaders beating them up/arresting them for it.French women cannot wear the hijab in public, armed police will force them to undress at gunpoint.I don't get it this whataboutism with hijab. Everytime I speak to libfems about this and they bring up high heels and bras and I'm at a loss - what about it? How is this relevant to me criticising the hijab?Also, "telling women what to wear is as discriminatory as telling women what not to wear" is horseshite. Women and their choices aren't immune from criticism, this is something libfems don't get.  I don't think anyone should wear it regardles, as I believe it's a symbol of oppression. A woman wearing it as a symbol of religious expression in the west is a kick in the face to our sisters in the east as far as I'm concerned. My question is geared towards what language I should use to sway people to realize no one should be wearing it.Okay, so it's the second one.And Im really mad that there are people on this sub who think choice is what feminism is all about. Im mad that theyre posting here without having read any radfem texts, or thought critically about the issue for more than five minutes. Open your eyes and consider the wider inequalities that lead to women choosing to wear hijabs (or heels, or make up, or whatever oppressive costume you can think of).If you think I believe in choice feminism you haven't been on this sub reading my comments for the last two-some years. I don't think that wearing hijab can be a feminist choice; I think that banning it wholesale is authoritarian, anti-feminist, and counterproductive; I think that if you've ever actually had a conversation with someone who wears a headscarf, or makeup, or high-heels, you'll know that just "telling them not to" isn't going to work; and I think that the kneejerk response of American and European women who actually want to ban it is a double standard considering that there is no movement to legislatively ban the wearing of western clothing of any kind, even though there is western clothing that is not just symbolic and uncomfortable but physically crippling.And Im really mad that there are people on this sub who think choice is what feminism is all about. Im mad that theyre posting here without having read any radfem texts, or thought critically about the issue for more than five minutes.I'm less and less interested in reading and participating in this sub for just that reason.  It seems like this has become a real problem recently...I agree with this, but I feel like many radical feminists dont realise how hard it is for a Muslim women to stop wearing the head scarf or burqa. They have family every where and cant escape the consequences of their actions. I mean it must be easy to talk about unlearning when you dont come from a strict Muslim immigrant family.Banning the hijab would also be detrimental to Muslim as you will see many of them disappear from  society due to their family.Not banning the hijab is also detrimental seeing as it changes absolutely nothing, and just furthers the pressure for young women to veil themselves.Im from a muslim immigrant family as well and its incredible how many white people wont touch this issue because theyre afraid to offend or assume they just dont understand. If more liberal and radical feminists spoke up about this issue and organized around it, perhaps young women like me would have a larger platform to speak.I would love for muslim feminists to do this themselves- but the majority of those are a) religious, and b) are hunted for sport in their own countries and hated by liberal feminists in the west.If the hijab is banned, more people will want to wear it and it will defeat the purpose. I have a friend who comes from a strict Muslim. And I know for a fact if the hijab is banned, I wont be seeing her in public anymore.Yasss! Reminded me of this fantastic TED talk on the subject: https://youtu.be/_J5bDhMP9lQI still believe however that the government should not ban them because at least in the U.S the government is mostly male, and I don't like more laws by men telling women what to do.The problem is that the government doesnt need to be reformed re: hijabs, the religion does.  So whether the government of any country does or does not outlaw it doesnt really matter if the social structure is built around the religion anyway.Its a "there's no simple answer" type of problem.YeahI dont care who is telling women what to do when it comes to issues like these. If the US government decides to crack down on rapists tomorrow morning, I won  t stand in their way because "the government is mostly male" lmao.Lets take progress where we can, instead of debating about the purity of everyones intentions.Taslima Nasreen is brilliant.Well to be fair, it does seem like Europe and Canada and Australia are learning that most men from Islamic parts of the world actually ARE rapists...  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.The trans lobby is going to be furious.They already hate single stall bathrooms/unisex spaces because they can't be validated in them.Countdown to them using black people ("wah something something separate water fountains!!!111) in 3...2...1This is actually genius. If they complain about being separate from women, they'll peak trans everyone. While most people don't yet see the harm in the bathroom issue, this is a reasonable accommodation to keep both women and trans identifying males safer. Any outrage is going to show everyone that it was never about safety: it was about people being forced to believe they are twu wimminz.And if they complain about these separate trans areas being too violent they're basically reinforcing our point that these men are too dangerous to be housed with women.I foresee violent offenders claiming to be trans to get into the trans wing, which will lead to a huge argument about who's "truly trans" and who's not, and the whole movement will just fold in on itself as they start stabbing each other in the back. Making popcorn now. It's a bit early, but we're gonna need a lot of popcorn.How irritating, though... they will finally have this conversation because other trans people will be in danger and not because women were. Nobody gave a shit about stopping and thinking about this for a second when we were the ones who were being screwed up.Not that I want to see trans people physically assaulted, but I'm excited to see this shit explode in their faces.This is when having a clear definition would be helpful for some folks.They are going to hate this, they will be right back to being housed with men like themselves.Narcissists cannot get along with each other, it's going to be epic.They are going to claim each other is fake. No submissive to play the fetish off of, they all want to go to the front of the woman's line- and they are all narcissisticSo true, narcissists tend to get physically violent with each other too, which will be great in showing everybody just how violent TIMs really are.The separate water fountains doesn't have anywhere near the same resonance in the UK, for obvious reasons. It will be interesting to see what else they come up with.That does not stop themThey compare FGM to male circumcision and say they suffered from FGM if they had their penis circumcised.They use the Holocaust and Nazi comparisons for hurt feelings.These men are disgusting reprobates.Aye aye, they love the drama. But it's not going to be a very persuasive comparison in a British context."be validated" = sexually assault women and children?You are so right that this isn't abouy safety, its about validating them as a women. If it was about safety, they would hold the actual men hurting them in bathrooms and prison accountable instead of women. Women didnt do anything to them, yet we are the bad guys. In this whole issue, there is no conversation about the real problem- rape and abuse in men's prisons.Text;The Prison Service is to stop many transgender inmates, including sex offenders, serving their sentences in womens prisons.The justice minister Ed Argar said the government was revising guidelines that said the great majority of trans prisoners should be allowed to experience the system in the gender in which they identify.Options now under consideration include clustering trans prisoners in special wings or sections of wings. A number of high-risk trans inmates have already been moved back to mens prisons, The Sunday Times can reveal.Ministers acted after Karen White, a convicted sex offender who retains her male genitalia, was allowed into New Hall womens prison near Wakefield, where she sexually assaulted two female prisoners.The change has become more urgent after officials forecast that numbers of trans or non-binary prisoners in England and Wales could rise to 1,000, up from 139 last year. There are about 4,000 biological women in prison.Argar said: We take the Karen White case very seriously. New guidelines will be published shortly to ensure that [the policy] continues to strike the right balance between ensuring that all female prisoners are kept safe [and] that transgender prisoners have their rights respected.As a result of the White case, the justice ministry said, it had already made the difficult decision to move a small number of transgender women back into the male estate.The change was seized on by campaigners against plans to allow people to self-identify. Nicola Williams, of Fair Play for Women, said: Its an admission that allowing males to self-identify as women and letting them into womens spaces is dangerous."Who retains her male genitalia"For fucks sake.I self identify as a dragonfly, I require you set me free as all dragonflies should be.Did you know that male dragonflies don't care whether the females want to have sex with them, and grab the back of the female's neck and holds on to her for hours, sometimes resulting in her becoming injured or death by drowning?I was being harassed by a dragonfly yesterday arvo. Now Im a bit officials forecast that numbers of trans or non-binary prisoners in England and Wales could rise to 1,000, up from 139 last year. There are about 4,000 biological women in prison.Well...there's enough for their own wing at least?They're supposed to be what, 1% of humans? 2% tops and they're making up 1/4 of the crimes that half the population does? Move along girls, nothing to see here /sA group that's estimated at being about 0.6% of the overall population is predicted to be imprisoned in the same numbers as 25% of the female population.So that's an imprisonment rate (50% /(0.6% x 4)) = 20.83 times higher than the female population.  I wonder which other group has a similar imprisonment rate?*(* hint: in the UK men are imprisoned at 20.44 times the rate of women - spooky coincidence?)Quit being such a transphobe /sThere are those pesky facts again.spooky indeed!Statistics are TERFY!I'd be willing to bet that the minute TIMs are no longer sent to women's prison, the number of male inmates identifying as women will drop considerably.Yeah I agree with that hunch!In one year they expect the population of TiM inmates to be equal to 1/4th of the entire female inmate population....but we're not supposed to say things like TiMs commit crimes at the same rates as men....we're supposed to say their behavior is in line with the general population of women....SURE, JANOr their own prison entirely if 4000 women are it in the UK.I don't think it means that it will rise to 1000 in one yearexperience the system in the genderAhh yes, more male fantasies at the expense of women."seized on" way to shade the rad fems.FFS, the Karen White case makes me LIVID.Is there no one with a brain in the whole UK justice ministry? What did you think would happen when you put a sexual predator with intact male genitalia into a womens prison? Fucking morons. That should not have happened to those women. It's just sickening.This is good news for women.FABULOUS!!!!And, I think this will be better for Trans people--maybe, most of all.I think so! Perhaps it will allow them to get more specific treatment to their needs as opposed to thinking and treating them like they are women, which helps absolutely no one.  I readI hope they will give them much better medical care.As "I hope they will give them much better medical care than women."Which is probably why you're being downvoted.Or you could just post to the anarcho feminism sub, or create one instead of being here for five minutes and telling 26 000 people how to feminist.I upvoted you for what it is worth.:/Good. Good for everyone. They can harass each other at will. And share clothes and make-up and hairstyling because of course that's what we ladies do all day long...  I wonder if their periods will syncBahahahahaUsername checks outhttps://gfycat.com/rigidjampackedbasenjiEXCELLENTDrag Race is the New Black!Options now under consideration include clustering trans prisoners in special wingsGlorious common sense! Hallelujah!(Although I do also think that the 60% of MtF prisoners who aren't sex offenders should be "clustered" separately from the 40% who are.)I've wondered for years why violent and non-violent offenders are in the same prisons.It becomes much harder to justify jailing the mentally ill and drug addicted. When they're seen as unique groups it becomes clear they need health care not confinement. Lump them in with violent offenders and they're "just another criminal."There are different categories of prison in the U.K. where prisoners are placed depending on their sentence, nature of crime, likelihood of escape, tendency to be violent etc.  Absolute best way to go.  We cant deny it would be dangerous for them in regular male gen pop.  And the government cant deny its a danger to the women in regular gen pop.  Keep as many people safe as possible.It's going to be dangerous for the male transsexuals (the gay TIMs) in these wings. They're often the victims of predatory behaviour from AGPs anyway so being locked up with them can't possibly be good news.But I think that's one for the transsexual community to sort out. They've allowed the perverts to use them as cover for far too long, and it's been damaging and harming women.That's an infight they need to sort out themselves.  The way to keep absolutely everyone safe in prison is solitary for every inmate, but thats not a possibility, and is unhealthy in so many other ways.The way to keep absolutely everyone safe in prison is solitary for every inmate,Solitary is actually really harmful for people - we are social creatures. So this should never be a general solution for all people in prison.Which is why the second part of that statement was "and is unhealthy in so many other ways."dur! my bad!  ...why would it be any more dangerous for them in a men's prison than it is for any other men?...do all gay men and scrawny men get the women's prison with their own special wing too? or do the child rapists get a separate wing because more men hate them? TiMs are less likely to experience violence in life than other men. they are just men with mental disorders, not unlike a great deal of the male prison population thats already in there. they dont deserve special treatment.  They often do keep effeminate gay men segregated from the general pop in their own wing for the same reasons, yes.Plenty of groups--including cops who are inmates, pedophiles & rapists--also get put in segregation usually on the taxpayer's dime.  I think the estimated cost is $10,000ish per year to protect the scumbags.  Example:  Daniel Holtzclaw, the police officer who raped a bunch of Black women in Oklahoma, is in segregation "for his own safety" :\I'm cool with separating gay & trans inmates, but fuck all that other noise.  If you're in for raping a woman or child or happen to be a corrupt cop who did something bad enough to actually get locked up, you deserve to sit in general pop.I think the UK's prison regime isn't (yet) as brutal as the American one so a lot of these problems aren't going to be as prominent.If you're in for raping a woman or child or happen to be a corrupt cop who did something bad enough to actually get locked up, you deserve to sit in general pop.I get it, I totally get the anger.However, I am against prison "justice" being dispensed.It continues the cycle of violence.Plus there are innocent men locked up.The first man who used DNA to prove his innocence was accused of raping and murdering a ten year old.He didn't do it.The man who did it was in the cell below him!He suffered for years, including losing his beloved mother while in prison.Now what would have happened to him in the general pop?Only through his efforts was he able to prove his innocence.And any man who would rape another man, no matter the other mans crimes, is a bad person to start with!Are they at the women's prison though?...I believe child rapists are seperated from the general population exactly for this reason.I agree that gay, GNC, and otherwise feminine men are in danger in the same way TIMs are, and them not receiving the same protection as TIMs is unfair, but I still think preventing some sexual violence is more important than making sure no one gets special treatment. My question is how it would work if prisons seperated feminine men from masculine men.My question is how it would work if prisons seperated feminine men from masculine men.This is the kind of question where it's easy for me to go to war with myself in a way where the ideology falls in on itself in my own mind.Soooooo if we assume that the effeminate ones are "good" and need to be kept away from the "bad" masculine ones... but they're all in prison... and you can have a 6'5" effeminate guy and a 5'1" masculine guy... and is there a correlation between being "good" and being feminine? Like does being effeminate mean being docile and nonviolent? But if they're all in San Quentin, then they're all guilty of crimes... and why would the effeminate ones necessarily be guilty of less awful crimes... and if the goal is keeping them safe, then why shouldn't the effeminate ones be given the opportunity to make friends in the wider community, like telling them they're all little victims seems kinda jacked... and once you divide them into "girly men" and "manly men" aren't they just going to beat on each other within those two groups... who wants to be the girliest man in genpop? And aren't you assuming in some way that one group or the other is irredeemable? And you know this is going to be racialized where the nastiest little Asian dude who killed 10 men in a gangland hit is deemed effeminate while the huge black guy with unpaid parking tickets is never going to get the benefit of the doubt....Ugh. Not saying the idea is bad, but it would fall to shit in practice unless it was strictly between LGBTWTFBBQ and straights, no matter how manly or girly.They really should at least be separating prisoners who are there for non-victim/victimless crimes (crimes like having drugs) from those whose crimes were for the purpose of there being victims. Of course there would be a gray line in the middle somewhere but how ridiculous is it to have a serial killer housed with somebody who had some marijuana?In the U.K. there are different categories of prison (high security, medium, low, open). Non-violent, low-risk prisoners tend not to be placed in the same prisons as the serial murderers.Many prison systems seperate gay men from gen pop.  Its not new.Someone with fake breasts, manufactured vagina, etc is going to be targeted for sexual assault in mens prison.  You would have to be in full denial of the realities inside prisons to think otherwise.TiMs are less likely to experience violence in life than other men.Thats out in the world, not inside prisons.  Theres a prison rape culture that is completely seperate from male rape stats in the free world.  Men who would have no interest having sex with or raping another man in regular society can and do sexually assault other men in prison.They can steal each other's wigs, and argue who is a bottomIf the capitalist state takes a rapist, murderer, child abuser, etc and removes them from society im not gonna complain.Would it be better if they were locked up by a socialist state or something?  Or not by any state, just by random mobs in the street dispensing justice?I'm PLENTY familiar with it.Please describe your non-prison approaches for dealing with sexual assault.I'd love to know how you'd avoid situations like the one I linked above.That link is a 404.  I'd actually quite like to hear you explain it on your own, without reference to other reddit threads, if you would.How familiar are you with chronic child rapists?Not very.  Point me in a direction and im happy to take a lookI meant like reading material you would recommend, but ok.  Its not really helping me understand what a better form of justice would be thoughwow that was a load of rape apologiaI started it, but judging by the first part  its probably not something i could go forthe 'perpetrator' abides by the agreement and is regularly checked in on by their support group, as is the 'survivor'.So what happens if the perpetrator of a crime doesnt abide by the agreement made with the victim?Yeah, let's, uh, do restorative justice instead and make rape victims talk to their accusers until everyone's happy!https://filtermag.org/2018/09/25/how-can-we-reconcile-prison-abolition-with-metoo/Here's a lovely example of how "transformative/restorative justice" approaches work.A man is accused of sexual wrongdoing.He's never taken in by the state, never incarcerated or put on trial. He has to go to a few counseling sessions and the entire organization has to attend sexual assault trainings.Meanwhile, the victim never comes back, and the teacher DID come back and stayed in the organization (but he was viewed with distrust, the poor fellow!).All you'll find if you look into "prison abolition" and actual stories of what it looks like when rape is approached with these techniques are stories like these.These techniques create the perfect conditions for serial predators.Its rape apologia at best, centered on allowing the rapists views to be heard and validatedIs this for real?If your views are the kind of thing that aren't allowed by content rules, maybe we'd get along fine. ;-)  Hard disagree.  If we're talking about non-violent crime, sure.  But rape, domestic violence, animal or child abuse, murder, child molestation & other horrific acts are what prisons are built for.  We must have a place to house these animals to protect society & punish them for their crimes already committed.  Act like an animal, get treated like one.If you want to argue for improved conditions in prison & better rehabilitation programs, sure.  I can get behind that because it just makes practical sense as most inmates will be released one day.  But fuck shortening sentences of violent offenders or trying to rehabilitate psychopaths.  Not everyone CAN be fixed.(I do support ending the drug war completely & legalizing every drug.  Prostitution should no longer be a crime either; at least not for the sex workers.  Violent pimps & johns?  Lock 'em up.  Legalize, tax & regulate = safer than leaving these markets open to violent criminals.  Banning these things doesn't make them go away.  Petty theft could be handled with short sentences & rehab).But fuck shortening sentences of violent offenders or trying to rehabilitate psychopaths. Not everyone CAN be fixed.This right here.I don't know how our tribal, roaming on the plains ancestors dealt with predators, but I'm sure it involved shoving them off a cliff.Some people are so dangerous, they can never be  let out.Lock them away, treat them humanely, we do not want to be monsters like them, and never let them out.Lol pm me your views.I'll kinda curious why on earth we shouldn't be locking up people who molest children, rapists, or murderers.Unless you think we should summiraly execute them on the spot that is I dont think Im capable of killing another person, but if I had to choose between restorative justice for predators, or me being their executioner, I would give it a damn good go TBH.I'm fine with this but TRAs are going to have a huge fit.As per fucking usual. When are they not having a fit?Honestly? That' s just an added bonus.When do they not? It's all they do most of the time.Let them fit away. It will be very interesting to see how the public react to them having a tantrum when they are literally getting their own special accommodation.I think they're motivated by pure practicality rather than any sympathy or concern for women. The women's prison estate would have collapsed trying to accommodate the number of TIM prisoners.Still though, it's surprisingly rare for anyone in a position of power/authority to acknowledge the inevitable logical consequences of trans ideology. I'm almost amazed that they noticed the collapse of the women's prison system was on the cards even though the issue is glaringly obvious. I wish some sports governing bodies would likewise pay attention to the inevitable consequences for women's sports.  Women's prisons and the systems that support them are pretty much always much smaller than their male equivalents. Overcrowding is an issue everywhere but when it nears breaking point in women's facilities there are less options to alleviate it. Women's prisons are already at capacity most of the time. Single rooms/cells are already doubled, tripled and quadrupled up. Sanitary amenities like toilets and showers need to exist in proportion (eg. In Aus it used to be one toilet and shower per 5 prisoners), so they can't just keep turning beds to bunks and squeezing more bodies in.This is a problem before even considering how to accomodate men who want to be housed in women's prisons. Men generally have more prisons and can be shuffled around. A man might spend his five year sentence in seven different facilities whereas a woman might have the option of two - if she behaves well enough to lower her security classification. So yeah, pragmatism is probably a big factor. Areas in men's prisons can be repurposed to accomodate trans populations. Women's prisons simply don't have the space for that. If a women's prison just built a trans unit it would be a security, healthcare and logistics nightmare and it must always be full to justify its existence. In a male prison, they have the luxury of many options for repurposing space.Fantastic news, but is this 'special' wing' in the men's prison or the women's? because that could still create problems for women.It said that they had already removed TIMs from women's prisons.Sounds ok to me.This is great news.  Let's just hope The Prison Service doesn't just consider violent criminals in this decision but all trans prisoners or prisoners who consider themselves trans, whether they've had surgery or not.  Any crimes committed by these prisoners while incarcerated can be dealt with by the prison system and prosecuted, just as it always has been with any other prisoners.Finally some sanity!Yes!This is great news!Awesome! That is a perfect solution for people to be safe during their incarceration!I think this is great news.  And well overdue. Id be interested to know though, what sex will the prison officers be?  Im obv thinking of those who have to search the prisoners...I'm sure they can find some transpeople looking for work.This is brilliant. A victory for reality, common sense and the safety of women.This is great.I also like how even thinking about them having an issue with it made me go around in insane circles: if trans women are women, then surely they have no issue with being placed among trans women cause if trans women are women, then being placed with trans women is the same as being placed with "cis" women.Just lunacy. Why claim you're the same in the first place, but suffer from different, *more severe* discrimination cause you're *not* the same as "cis" women. Pick one!Good idea! They should be attached to mens prisons, though.Brilliant! Perfect solution all round28 minutes ago  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.I admire her. She is brave. These are the Women from the middle east that need to be heard. Not Linda Sarsour. Linda is a mouth piece for a  male dominated religionShe's great. Yasmine Mohammed, Asra Nomani, Ayaan Hirsi Ali, Sarah Haider, Hiba Krisht, Raheel Raza - all awesome women worth checking out on youtube and twitter.Because far too many left-identifying Americans think progressivism is about performing disgust tolerance. The more disgusting/discomforting/frightening they find a group of people, the more "woke" it is to express "tolerance" for them. No need to apply any analysis as to why they feel that disgust and certainly no need to think about real-world consequences of "tolerance," it's all just performance for in-group belonging.There is a book, Haidt: The righteous Mind, dealing, in a huge part, with that sort of moral relativism. I've got a copy from far far left forums. Pity moral consciousness is such a taboo subject it's only discussed in outskirt movements, in a hush-hush way.Have an upvote and a silver my sister!  There was a time not that long ago when many Muslims would have laughed at you if you suggested all women had to wear a hijab or face sexual harassment or rape.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_ZIqdrFeFBk> In the year '53 we really wanted to compromise with the Muslim  Brotherwood if they were willing to be reasonable. And I met the head of  the Muslim Brotherhood and he sat with me and made his resquests. What  did he request ? The first thing he asked for was to make wearing a  hijab mandatory in Egypt and demand that every woman walking in the  street wear a tarha (scarf). [crowd laughing] Every woman walking!  [Someone from the crowd shouts ''Let him wear it!'' the crowd applauds  and laughs] If I make that a law, they will say that we have returned to  the days of Al-Hakim bi-Amr Allah who forbade people from walking at  day and only allowed walking at night. And my opinion is that every  person in his own housedecide sfor himself the rules and he replied  ''No, as a leader, you are responsible''. I told him, ''Sir, you have a  daughter in the School of Medicine and she's not wearing a tarha''.  [crowd laughing] ''Why didn't you make her wear a tarha? [crowd  applause] If you are unable to make one girl - who is your daughter -  wear the tarha, you want me to put a tarha on 10 million women? Myself?  [laughs with crowd]''.Imagine if he said that today?  The Islamic president of Egypt would be accused of racism by a libfem for not wanting women to be forced to wear hijabs.Now because of the influence of Saudi Wahhabism and the support of idiot liberal westerners the Muslim world is sliding backwards to who knows where.Euh. It isn't the fault of the liberal westerners that the islam is in such a state. Let's not pretend. My culture has a rich history of oppressing women long before whitey came along. And yes, before Saudi influence as well. The Egyptian president doesn't give a shit about what some libfem thinks omg.I agree. Violence against women and misogyny are a man problem, not a white problem (though white men are definitely involved)I'm familiar with this video but the link you gave doesn't work for me, here's a correct one https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_ZIqdrFeFBkIt's not the libfems fault (although they do help spread this lunacy), it's the oil money which allowed the Saudis to export their conservative interpretation of Islam abroad https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_propagation_of_Salafism_and_WahhabismThe mosques that pop up all over the place in the West now are founded by SA, Qatar, Kuwait and others. They're not interested in spreading "Islam light" that's compatible with the Western values, you can be sure of that. There are many many vids on youtube taken by undercover reporters in mosques in the West and the shit they teach there explains everything that's going on in the world right now - the problem is, no one goes there. People just assume they teach some "love thy neighbour" type of shit, just in Arabic... Luckily, many European countries are now banning foreign funding for mosques, Austria closed down 7 of them and expelled a bunch of imams recently. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3WgVa3VRFb4I just finished reading The Handmaid's Tale and holy shit. The parallels. Even down to foreign people being 'tolerant' of what was going on, what was happening to women.36 minutes agoOmg the scene with the tourists!!!!!What a surprise that a religion of slave traders would be oppressive to women.True path towards emancipation and liberation is through rejection of religion.They agree with the current anti-women beliefs and man's right to control  women. This alone made many western men go to the far east to join ISILThe real conundrum here is why do US citizens keep calling their centrist liberals "left wing".Well when I criticize Islam and trans ideology I get called alt-right by the left, so there's that....Left and right really have always been relative terms, not objective ones, and our center is pushed way, way to the right. Its too bad this isnt understood in the US.It's a natural reaction to watching th  right wing demonize Muslim's and use fear to advance their imperial pursuits. It's the same reason they are pro trans, it's just a desire to express acceptance for marginalized groups. That's why there has to be left critiques of trans ideology and Islam. We can't afford to cede this to the right wing.Go back to the Donald.What? He is in good company here! Surrounded by other reactionary scumGo awayI follow her on Twitter.She is a treasure.One of the biggest things the woke left says is if you're not from that culture or not that race, sit down, shut up and listen. Well, Muslim women are speaking and I'm listening. What they have to say a lot of the time is not exactly pro-Islam.I'm Jewish. You want to insult Kaporos? Go RIGHT AHEAD. It's disgusting.I'm not Muslim but I feel 100% comfortable with saying that chopping off Danny Pearl's head was wrong. Throwing gays off buildings? Very wrong.I'm not British but I don't need to listen to anyone regarding fox hunting. Wrong wrong wrong. Not Chinese and not interested in listening to anyone about foot binding.Does the woke left expect the world to sit down, shut up and listen while Americans explain the Trail of Tears or experimentation on blacks at Tuskegee? I'm white, so if you're black please listen to me about why lynchings and the KKK aren't bad.With the exception of Tim McVeigh, every act of terrorism carried out on American soil has been by MuslimsI we stunned reading that. Then I found out your a trump supporter. How are you people this delusional?And lastly they're United by anti-Semitism. Actually I might even put that first.Rich coming from a right wingerExactly. Shooting up places of worship, shooting up schools, shooting up work areas, sending bombs to people are all acts of terror predominately done by white non muslim men. If right wingers didn't fearmonger about Muslims and Islam then leftist wouldn't defend it so blindly/ without critique. I am not defending leftist behavior we shouldn't be so reactionary (reacting to right wing hate) but what cfinboston is doing isn't right either. We can critique the religion without making up lies to villainize them.I was thinking, hey, what about the Unibomber, at least!Because, this type,they're about narratives(one bad guy..others must be made good, by default) and victim-hierarchies. If you fall further down the tree, tough..doesnt matter what they do to women or if x group is tossing gay people off buildings.This is why I no longer consider myself a leftist.Why can't you stay a leftist and critique it?  Its not a club, it's a set of ideas. Which leftist idea do you now presumably disagree withBecause, this type,they're about narratives(one bad guy..others must be made good, by default) and victim-hierarchies. If you fall further down the tree, tough..doesnt matter what they do to women or if x group is tossing gay people off buildings.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.This poor child was mutilated because their parents wanted book deals and reality TV shows more than they wanted a gay son. I hope Jazz eventually sues all adults involved, including the medical professionals who fucked up his body, then butchered it.That's not likely to happen. That would involve the process of tearing down his identity and building it up from scratch, without a support system. And he's so used to the spotlight by now, tlc wouldnt film that ugly process.You don't think that five years from now TLC won't be trying to make money on a reality show about detransitioners? I would so not be surprised.This. They' re going to do what brings money. If in 5 years this trans-obsession is over, I can totally see them making shows about detransitioners.Mark my words:When detransitioning hits the mainstream:it will be made into another moneymaker freak showleftists/men will repeat the warnings and analysis of gender-critical women/radfems and give them no creditthe narrative will blame feminists as a group somehow for transition ever being a thingLOL, you don' t need to convince me, I agree completely. Especially the last part. I don' t know how they' re going to sell that, but they' ve been nothing but creative so far so I expect something explosive (and lies).I' m just going to add that the blame will be dual: part of these assholes will blame us for creating the problem in the first place, the others will recognize we fought it but will blame us for not fighting hard enough against it and letting it go this far.I think plastic surgeons will make bank on reconstructive surgeries.Plastic surgeons will never be out of jobs, especially if they created the problem in the first place.And now I' m in full conspiracy theory mode...It's more likely he will kill himself than "detransition."I hope not, but I have seen you say this in several threads recently... It's chilling.Detransition is a very powerful platform from which to speak.He would be a powerful spokesperson, but I just don't know.  It looks so bleak for him.He doesn't realize how much he has been betrayed.Will it take five years?Good question. I was being kind of conservative. Maybe two or three . . .I think that Jazz is likely to be in therapy for a while and will need a long time to explore their identity and feelings about all this.I literally don't know if Jazz is capable of exploring his feelings on it. The drugs that stunt puberty also stunt IQ (https://www.reddit.com/r/GenderCritical/comments/9q7ptb/012317_drop_in_iq_of_about_8_points_seen_in_small/). This is probably why he takes his mother's word as gospel and believes in psychics despite being an adult.I don't think it's necessarily just an IQ thing. He has been brainwashed since childhood.I wouldn't be surprised if he ends up committing suicide; I know that's not nice to say, but what happens when he snaps out of it and realises how much his parents and this corrupt surgeon fucked up his life (plus any chance at having a normal relationship with a partner) ?I know this goes against my normal radfem principles of accepting reality but I kind of hope that at this point he never wakes up. It's unlikely, but I do. I can't imagine the kind of psychological torture it would be to not only detransition after NEVER having gone through puberty, but also knowing that your parents, your fans, and law enforcement did NOTHING to stop it, and instead encouraged you to continue so they could watch. That's a whole other level of betrayal. I want a happy independent life for him after this exploitation but all he knows is being a trans activist. I don't know if he sees a career or future in doing anything else.He is like George "Christine" Jorgensen.  All Jorgensen could do after he became the world's first "transsexual" was exploit his notoriety.  His life was ruined, completely and totally ruined, and he died of cancer well before his time.Woah! It's your 8th Cakeday RetlaOge! hugI just feel like the surgery was ultimately not totally necessary from watching the show. It didnt seem like Jazz was that upset about having a penis. Why put your child (or yourself) through a risky and unnecessary surgery if you dont absolutely have to?Jazz was told from age 3 (I mean how many of us, barring trauma, have clear memories of being three years old?) that he was transgender. Why would be really believe otherwise at  17? His mom is a real piece of work: shes always shocked when something comes up with Jazz. I find it predatory to put your child on reality television anyway but Jazz has been subjected to public scrutiny that was ultimately not necessary for him.The parents are horrible. They brainwashed this kid and made him believe he was in the wrong body from the time he could walk and put him on tv when he was in kindergarten. They love the fame and money they get by destroying their son's life. It's disgusting, and it's child abuse. He will wake up one day and realize the immense harm they inflicted on him.I hope Jazz is someday able to escape the media attention, find an identity beyond Celebrity Trans Person, and build a normal life. Unfortunately, the odds don't look good.I also hope that Jazz's parents, agents, producers, and doctors get sued to hell and back.They should be in a fucking jail. All of them.I agree.  Why CPS hasn't intervened in this "family" yet is  beyond me.  It's obvious these grifting parents have abused this young man for all his life.This is "transgender" surgery:  "Jeanette reaches out to a doctor after Jazz starts complaining about the abnormal appearance of her genitals post surgery."Jazz needs to stop being the toddler and talk to his doctor without his mother present--his mother who is keeping him infantilized.JHC, I was the mother of 2 sons and I would never have interfered with their very being the way this woman does, this woman who is living vicariously through a son she has manipulated all his life.This is one of the things about trans ideology that I continue to be horrified by.Either you're old enough to be an adult and make adult decisions about your body or you are not.If Jazz didn't realize that their pseudo-genitalia might just look like an industrial accident before they had the surgery, then they were too young and immature to have the surgery.Yeah, it's a huge bummer that "adults" and "society" and "laws" won't let you get a tattoo of Voltron on your back when you're 8, but we have those laws because kids are stupid.  I don't really understand how even TRAs can justify what happened to Jazz.  They're all about a person's right to choose their own identity, and hey, so am I - what even is identity, after all?  As long as you don't try to make everyone pretend you're biologically female when you're not, as long as you allow biologically female people to have boundaries, I take no issues with you whatsoever.  But Jazz?  Jazz never chose anything. The parents decided Jazz was trans when Jazz was barely 3 years old.  How is this any different from "assigning sex at birth", which TRAs claim is so terrible?  We can't "assign" biological sex at birth, but assigning a gender identity is a-ok??? lmaoAh, but you see, 3 years old Jazz asked when the genitalia fairy was going to turn his penis into a vagina. That means he totally chose his identity. That' s how they justify it.I watched the "I am Jazz" documentary several years ago before he got the tv show and went in open-minded. That line right there set off so many bullshit alarm bells because what 3 year old expresses themselves like that using adult language? Even if it was true, 3 year olds want to be mermaids, unicorns, dogs, cats, the first astronaut on Jupiter and all sorts of other fanciful things. I wanted to be a dad when I was 3 because being pregnant looked scary and I was my dad's shadow and looked up to him at the time.I wanted to be a cat when I was 3. I still want to be a cat.Me too.Yes, but why are these alleged "doctors" participating in this fraud?  They should all be in jail.Pretty sure the lead doc is trans.ETA: I agree with you, regardless.And the medical profession can't even see through the self-interest in getting rich mutilating people, whether it's groomed children or mentally ill adults.It's disgusting how money rules every decision.  There is no longer an ethical consideration when it comes to money and/or "making a name" for oneself.  You can, however, invent and propagate lies.Money, fame, ego, social pressures, political agenda.Oh my god, wtf would happen if the tissue when from "a little blue" to necrotic?  Not like theres a spare penis to make another fauxgina out of.  The risks associated with this procedure are so insaneOn the newest episode his doctor told him he would have to have a skin graft.Jazz apparently doesn't have much in the way of sexual function so I think their concerns will be mostly cosmetic :(In the episode where they do the initial surgery the doctor is very proud when telling the parents how much depth they were able to achieve, something i dont feel it was necessary to discuss with the parents at all after surgery.  Theres an odd lack of discreetness when it comes to the docs jazz is dealing with.  Jazz could have shared that info with the parents if he wanted to.  This is what happened next in my houseHusband: "did that doctor just...."Me: "Brag to the parents that jazz will be able to handle a 6 inch cock no problem?  Yup, sure did."Husband: "......"Me: "aaaaaaand this is the world we live in now."I know my language probably isnt the most feminist way of putting things, but i said what i said, so whatever.  That's so disgusting, especially since the doctors know Jazz himself can't real feel any sexual pleasure.I wonder how much extra damage they did to him trying to get another inch.I dont follow the show too closely, i didnt know about the sexual pleasure part.  Is it because puberty was blocked and so his penis didnt function like a regular penis and now those nerves they would have used are not functioning?This is basically it.  Jazz never went through puberty and in an episode last year, Jazz admitted to never experiencing sexual interest in men or women or masturbation or sex.  Jazz can have crushes, but only in the way a Kindergartner has crushes - lovey dovey with no sexual aspect.  Everyone, of course, was trying to convince Jazz that sex is an inevitability whether Jazz liked it or not... very disturbing and rape-y.The parents have absolutely no self awareness.  They were supposed to protect their kid and instead they robbed him of so many possibilities in life by consenting to puberty blockers and hormones.  They made their kid chemically asexual.  SmhThey know full well what they are doing.  It is all about the money with these rotten people.   The child is merely a cash cow to them.This show needs to be taken off the air.I find this so, so sad. Having raised adolescent boys, this poor kid is missing out on so much. I don't watch the show, to hear that he had a "past life regression session" (sure, Jan) in which he was a gay man who was rejected by his family and died on the street (HELLO) So sad. Poor, poor kid.I mean, asexuality is a thing. With Jazz, its not exactly obvious whether he became asexual naturally or because of not going through puberty properly.  Im aware that asexuality is a thing but the parents have orchestrated a situation wherein it is impossible to know if Jazzs asexuality occurred organically.  Asexuality is rare, its statistically very likely that Jazz wouldnt be asexual if theyd actually been through puberty.That's my understanding of the situation. He never experienced a male puberty so those nerves atrophied.Parents and medical quacks that put children on puberty blockers need to be locked up. It's nothing short of horrific child abuse.It really is.  If and when jazz is ever upset with them for doing it they'll probably just say "but it was what you wanted" and totally push the blame onto a child, no recognition of the fact that they failed their kid.Yeah, the it was "your choice" crap. You can't fill a child's head with a bunch of bullshit from the time they're four years old, inculcating them with it every single day for the next 15-20 years...and then call it actual freewill.He also didnt even experience a female puberty. I didnt realise this , but apparently giving him female hormones isnt enough to replicate a female puberty because he lacks ovaries . So the poor kid just didnt get any kind of sexual development at all.TIM's notion that they go through a female puberty when they take hormones is as realistic as thinking they are getting a vagina. No, you don't, and no, you're not.He didnt go through puberty, so nothing ever developed. He didnt produce sperm and his penis remained tiny (like a babys ). You also need to go through puberty in order to develop a proper sex drive and ability to get aroused. Theres footage of jazz when hes 16 saying hes never been aroused and never had an orgasm.I wouldn't be surprised if he had to wear a colostomy bag at some point soon.There are a few posts on trans subs about Ting's procedure. The surgeon himself advised several patients AGAINST peritoneal lining option, because it is so thin. He doesn't recommend doing it unless you have no other options.So yeah, definite risk of fistula. Poor kid.And my understanding only other option was using colon tissue, which Jazz did not want to do.Aside from being thin, peritoneal lining is subject to inflammation (peritonitis) when exposed to infection or irritating substances. Its not meant to be exposed to the things a vagina would (and even a colon would be able to withstand). Jazzs mom (ugh) dreams of an active sexual life for Jazz but I think, even setting aside the lack of orgasm ability, I think Jazz will discover sex with his neovagina is not quite as it has been promised to be. I mean, many women are prone to vaginal irritations or infections after sex, how much more susceptible will he be?Why not just accept that your kid is going to have sex in the butt?Why risk your child's health just so there's another hole there?That screen grab is.... uncomfortable. Literally nothing is sacred to these people.Why is his mom in the room?  Shes a fucking monster.  Seeing that shot made me so uncomfortable.It took me a minute to figure out what was going on there. Disturbing.I am absolutely heartbroken for that child. Jazz's parents are monsters and so is everyone who enabled them.This is child abuse.Interesting that there doesn't seem to be any other threads on this on Reddit (at least that I could find).  Even really, really libfem-y handmaiden-y types on some forums I go to are feeling "Hmm..." about Jazz's situation, because the parents are just so blatantly fame hungry and manipulative.  The episode where they kept trying to force Jazz to talk about masturbation etc was so disturbing... imagine forcing your 15, 16 year old child to talk about something so intimate in front of an entire country, imagine getting annoyed with them for not wanting to.  This is narcissistic parenting.Meanwhile, despite needing to be on a diet for the sake of the sexual reassignment surgery, Jazz began binge eating and hiding food in her bedroom (I know, I know - but I feel weird calling this kid by male pronouns considering their parents diagnosed him as trans at barely three years old... in this case, she/her really is all Jazz knows.)  This made it really obvious to me that, on some level, Jazz was avoiding the surgery.  Well, that and the episode where Jazz did hypnosis and cried about "another life" where she was a closeted man who just wanted to be gay...I don't know... I just feel so bad.  The whole world watched this kid get manipulated and abused on television, week to week, and did nothing.It's child abuse plain and simple. My heart breaks for him and his siblings. The mom actively ignores his older brothers and treats her actual daughter like shit while putting "Jazz" up on a pedestal. This kid hasn't been allowed an identity outside of "trans poster child" and it's so clear mom has coached, bullied and gaslit him and the entire family. Dad and the grandparents are complicit with their silence even if you can tell they're side-eyeing the shit out of mom a lot of the time.It's Munchausen By Proxy hour brought to you by the TLC circus freak channel. See the half man half woman! Followed by The Fat Ladies and Fat Men (My 600 lb Life), The Amazing Tom Thumbs (Little People, Big World), The Geeks (My Strange Addiction), The Fortune Teller (Long Island Medium), and the various medical marvels!Holy shit, that is so accurate.  The connection between circus freaks and TLC never made it to the front of my brain, and laying it out that way is just... chilling.Well, that and the episode where Jazz did hypnosis and cried about "another life" where she was a closeted man who just wanted to be gay...Oh my god, this poor kid  There are some tweets on twitter calling GC  condescending know it alls about everything happening on the show while not understanding it all happened a year ago and is just airing now.No, we are aware the surgery was several months ago. It is being discussed now because the show is airing it now for all to see; if TLC and Jazz and family did not want it discussed they would stop the show (but then there goes that cash cow!) The predictions about the risks and awfulness of the surgery were all discussed here long before the surgery even happened because it even the most imbecile of imbeciles will realize doing an experimental surgery that often gets botched in Jazzs surgeons own words is incredibly risky for well, being botched.And for those that think surgical complications cant be life-long and would have all been sorted or put behind Jazz several months ago, ha. Anything that requires lifelong dilation to avoid sealing up carries a lifelong risk of complications.We arent the ones who have the trouble separating propaganda and fantasy sold by people profiting from Jazz from the reality.Anyone who supports this absolutely horror show inflicted on Jazz - from the puberty blockers, to the hormones, to the surgery - all on a child who will forever remain a child because he has been denied any puberty is condoning child abuse. Discussing events being aired on a television show that happened months ago does not even come close to the vileness of that. Focusing on when it happened does not deflect from the fact it happened.I know it seems super gross and pedo-riffic, but not letting your offspring experience sexual enjoyment as a mature adult with the partner of their choosing seems like some human rights violating horror. Don't put your hangups on your kids.I'm all for a restriction on children appearing on reality tv shows. How can they give informed consent, they can't understand the ramifications.That poor kid.this looks a lot like munchausen by proxy syndrome, basically parents getting attention by presenting their children as seriously ill.This has been brought up a few times in the Jazz threads, and I think there is something to it. If so, Jazzs mother would not be nearly as upset by the complications as Jazz would be because for her they feed into the Munchausen (now her child is truly ill, so even better!)I have a feeling this is a severe case of Munchausen by Proxy. His mom thrives off of the attention she gets for having a 'transgender' son, nobody is allowed to question whether or not he's transgender, and there are tons of heavily biased and extremely pro-trans 'professionals' ready to back up and 'defend' his long crafted (by mom) 'identity.'This is like the lobotomy fad of old. I wouldn't be surprised if after the gee whiz novelty wears off, if there appears a bunch of class action lawsuits against the state and other professions for falling prey to the grandstanding and vocal trans activists and failing to create timely safeguards.All in all, likely a future warning to not get carried away with  a trendy diagnostic 'fad' no matter how 'progressive' it might make one feel.I watched this episode because so many people were talking about it and holy shit, poor jazz. I can't imagine being 18 years old, all the body and social anxiety anyone would feel at that age, and watching your genitalia literally fall apart. Even best case scenario for jazz now, say it turns out cosmetically okay and the function of it is okay for jazz, the scar tissue and the tension is going to leave her with pain for life . How will she ever do sport or anything ever again if that part of her body is under so much tension the stitches all popped? I hope she recovers as much as possible, it was horrifying to watch.Also that Dr ting is so inconsistent - on the one hand it's the most complicated case he's ever seen , but then he says she's young and should heal quickly and sends her home after three days. Then he writes off these complications as 'to be expected'.The surgeon sent him home after three days?!God. Okay I need to ban myself from reading about Jazz.  Its really triggering as a woman who had a vaginoplasty.  His surgery is essentially a significantly more complex version of what I had performed, and my surgeon kept me in hospital for 9 days, and followed up with me monthly for a year.  No one in my family ever asked to see the results, because theyre not indecent monsters like Jazzs family.  I genuinely cant imagine going through what I went through in front of the whole country, without anyone in my court.  Its obvious not a single adult in this situation cares about Jazz.  My heart breaks for this kid.This medical team is insane.  Hes young, hell heal quickly is fucking nuts.  These complications are to be expected??  His mom in the room like that while someone is checking on his fucking genitals???  What the fuck.  God.  Fuck.  This kid! He never had a chance!Vaginoplasty is a difficult to perform surgery that takes months if not years to recover from.  It carries significant mental health risks that no one seems to want to talk about.  It isnt easy.  It isnt a magic wand.  We need to be honest with kids about what the risks are and what the results are like, whether theyre trans like Jazz or they have a disorder of sexual development/vaginal agenesis like me.Ugh god, wow, sorry.  I guess this is a pretty touchy subject for me still.I hope Jazz sues them all. His Mother sexually abused him, and brought him to a doctor with a fetish that could not wait to experiment on himJazz is male, and always will be, regardless of how he self-identifies, what he wears or what surgeries he elects to undergo.And its a travesty that hes experienced his lifetime in the public eye essentially as a science experiment, medicated to such a great degree that even the surgery he presumably wants becomes fraught with complications.His life is utterly destroyed.  There needs to be consequences for those responsible for this horrendous case of child abuse.Sent home early so that TLC could get on with filming without the restrictions of Jazz recovering in a hospital."Him." "He." Let's not missex people.The parents should be thrown in jail for child abuse.This show should never have been allowed to air in the first place.Even in this upsetting clip, you can sense the mums buzz from having her munchausens-by-proxy/narcissism fed with so much attention.I know. She looked so happy that the DOCTOR had to come RIGHT AWAY when she texted him...Well, that was horrifying to watch. That poor child got some medically unnecessary surgery just because his mom convinced him that he should hate his body. Has the mom every been examined for Munchausen syndrome?He could have had a totally normal life as a gay man. He could have married, maybe found a surrogate and had a biological child. Now that will never be an option. Hell never have a genuine relationship. He might find a closeted gay man who is attracted to his male scent and pheromones and while pretending to be straight, but what kind of life is that?the thing is jazz has no Idea whether or not he's really attracted to menhe's been told he should be attracted to boys because "he" is a girl and girls are attracted to boysNo, not a "surrogate," for that another form of exploitation as in prostitution.Nobody is entitled to parenthood.I watched the episode, and Im still not sure about the outcome, other than there were complications and additional surgery. Jazz posted somewhere wording likemy vagina fell apart. So now he has...nothing? Just a vulva..???Poor kid.Jazz posted somewhere wording likemy vagina fell apartThis is next level horrorshow  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Yeah, well try getting campus IRB approval for any rigorous research on the harms of pornography, particularly on children.So OF COURSE there's not going to be a lot "scientific evidence to back this up." What little there is has gotten there through the determination of feminist researchers who must have the serenity of Buddhist nuns. It is maddening to try to study this in most academic circles.Rethinking the challenges of proposed anti-porn legislation of the 1980s (and I sure hope they've consulted MacKinnon this, who's teaching at U Michigan), I do think the Arizona approach is a good first step. If nothing else, we should at least be taxing the hell out of this moral travesty, and funneling it into shelters for abused and trafficked women and children.There most challenging part is there is no sample size of men over the age of 12ish not watching porn for researchers to do legit studies.Just curious, it's not my research area at all -- what are the specific hurdles to IRBs for pornography research?Ive heard that the research that has already been done on porn exposure has shown it to be harmful to the subjects, so ethics boards are not willing to approve research that knowingly causes harm. Need source though.That makes sense, too bad its a huge catch22. I wish we could get some uni ethics boards to get behind  porn abolition.If anyone could dig up one of these sources I'd be great to have.https://antipornfeminists.wordpress.com/https://www.culturereframed.org/http://stoppornculture.org/https://fightthenewdrug.org/It's also mentioned in Pornified by Pamela PaulYes, IIRC nothing involving porn gets approved now because the research we DO have shows that it harms the participants severely.For one, it seems that pornography research would also require a Human Subjects Review by another board if I'm understanding the process correctly. Porn research requires full IRB approval (as opposed to partial? I am not fluent in the process) because unless you're basing the research on self-report, you would be purposefully exposing subjects to graphic sexual and potentially violent materials which is an ethics issue.I think this is a smart move (Gail Dines has talked about this too) to talk about porn as a public health issue instead of a free speech or religious issue. It should also be a human rights issue because I would like to see some meaningful conversation about whether or not a person can consent to be waterboarded which is illegal under human rights law.Technically you can't even get a double-blind study of violent porn consumption with an experimental group and a control group, regardless of the IRB. It's not like pornhub airs non-porn placebo videos.You can still do studies on self-reported porn use, though. And they have all come back pretty awful.It's not like pornhub airs non-porn placebo videos.Well, there is this one comedian...https://imgur.com/a/zD6CumwBut yeah, kidding aside, this a great point. It would have to be all based on self-report. There was that one content analysis in 2010 but I assume that was approved since the authors appear to be the ones doing the coding of aggression in porn. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20980228Ooooh, I hope they do the tax thing. There's nothing that would motivate a backlash against the border wall/Trump quite like a choorus of entitled white men who have to pay to watch women getting abused.I agree the tax would be good! Granted, it'll be difficult to figure out what to block and what not too. And VPNing thru to another location will probably still work. Then again, $20 is relatively cheap versus a VPN subscription.I'm not saying I expect the law to be useful or work. I just think the drama over it would be amazing.Most people are criminals of opportunity. If it's too difficult, they give up. Barriers like this actually work pretty well. It filters out a huge chunk of people too lazy to figure out what a VPN even is.Most porn actresses are not "stars," and yes, most of them are being abused.No, I am saying white men who want the border wall funded also watch porn stars getting abused on camera and won't want to pay for it. There are other consumers of porn, this example just doesn't concern them.How ignorant can you be?I am all for positivity, and there have been many positive threads and many discussions about how to have more positive conversations, as well. I agree that the grim news shared on here is very disheartening. For some of us, it's our reality. For example, I will not heal from my many experiences of sexual assault by pretending that violence against women doesn't exist. I do believe that most men are mostly good, however. I don't know if I am in the minority or not in thinking that, but it's pretty remarkable I believe that considering what I have been through.However, I am asking how you can so ignorant as to believe that the majority of women in pornography are there by choice. I think you should do some research before making such a statement.  Using it as a Trojan horse to fund Trump's border wall is only going to make dems more blood thirsty to reject this bill.  Bad move that makes me think they may not even care that much about the pornography aspect at all, they really just wanna get their wall lol there are some libs you could get to admit porn has problems but if you want them to admit it so you can fund the wall, their lips will remain sealed.Yes!!!They should just start sueing search engines for listing all the porn so easily.Leaving her/him to one's own devices has taken on new meaning.Legislators are dumb. It's not just a "public health crisis".   It's not "porn addiction" that is the health crisis, addiction that men have chosen.  No one has mentioned how such activity criminally abuses and harms others?  That's because we see porn as a "freely chosen" activity based on the First Amendment of "free speech", not a criminal enterprise.  The cynical would tax it to fund a favored issue.Just who the hell are these people kidding?Well the thing is, that activity (that of actual, real abuse) is already illegal.Honestly it might just be better on the whole to force the industry (that part which actually employs actors and not individual performers or artists) to create its own watchdog organization which interviews the actors involved before they do their shoot. It would increase prices sure, but profits are already through the roof.Comstockery agaaaaaiiiiiiin?It's amazing hoe much they had to do to be taken seriously.When they returned the next day with their placards, they were surprised to see dozens of churchgoers, activists and even priests, holding their own signs demanding Bishop Mulakkal be held accountable.The support these nuns got is heart warming but it's sad that it was needed.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.I am unimpressed with r/philosophy's ability to define and discuss propaganda as a systemic communicative act. They've likened propaganda to interpersonal communication. Maybe that's why affective propaganda thrives on the Internet. People don't know what it is. This just shows bad information and technical literacy. I'm sure Jacques Ellul is rolling over in his grave right about now.But.... it is Reddit after all. Forget their porn love, their definitions are so bad they should change their sub name to r/wannabephilosophers.    Thank you for replying. I am glad to hear from someone who cares about women and actually knows what they are talking about.I just quit drinking cold turkey, and I think it's affecting me. I can't stop crying about the things that have happened to me, and I am so, so angry at the men who raped me.(It's about about four days since I quit). I can't sleep and have nightmares again, and I know reading shit from the sexists on Reddit is unhealthy, but I am so, so heartbroken at the state of the world.I think one of the reasons the issues of porn and prostitution have always felt so personal to me is because the women who comprise these industries are women like me. They are "damaged women" abused in childhood funneled into these industries which are basically patriarchy in its starkest, most vile form, and sexual trauma and the sexual abuse of women writ large on the big screen and the world stage, and written off with excuses, rationalizations, justifications, and victim-blaming, just like rape in everyday life is, and it feels more and more every day like none of us will ever see any justice, and there is no hope for a better world than this, none at all.Congratulations on making this positive change for yourself.  I have heard that the first week off of alcohol is the worst.  Stay strong and dont let the bastards grind you down  Thank you! It so happens to coincide with my period. I get bad premenstrual dysphoria (I am crying as we speak), so this has made it especially hard.So far so good! I am determined not to let what has happened to me rule my life, and that means letting go of alcohol. I have decided to look for a woman-only support group to help me stick to my decision.I know... The idea that propaganda is any persuasive communication is laughable and nauseating. I had to stop reading because very few people got it right.Media literacy is so important.  Note: I was arguing with these idiots before I posted this link, so I didn't break the no-participation rule.I don't know why I'm shocked that men are so clueless and distinctly lacking in philosophical chops in r/philosophy, and why they would be such misogynists in a sub designed for thinkers; I guess there's still an innocent little part of me that thinks that men who claim to read philosophy should know better!Philosophy is by far the male version of and pathetic excuse for "introspection" and "deep thinking" (fucking lol).Imagine this: a bunch of repressed neanderthals with nothing better to do other than jerking off to porn and eating Cheetos, narcissistically and hilariously pondering their sorry fucking existence and the MeAn1nG of things while thinking of themselves as SOOO UNEEQ, so intelligent and so abstract.In reality they're unhygienic fucking neckbeards with no desire to really look at themselves and actually think about things simply because they have the intellectual capacity of a piece of cardboard, they're misogynistic garbage, and they can't see past their own shit. And surprise, they tend to gather online in circle jerks, practically jizzing in each other's mouths as they regurgitate the same shit and make the same arguments, getting nowhere and solving nothing.Males.    Edit:Someone pointed out that I should stop posting synopses of the stuff I am writing online, because someone might steal it, so I will just say: I love you ladies and a part of the trilogy I am working on (in fact, the third and most important book, and the one that came to me first) is dedicated to you.You have all been there for me so much while I have been struggling to survive as a woman in this world run by men. I wish I could meet each and every one of you I've interacted with and we could have a giant party, of the most fun kind- you know, in a place with a series of houses and cabins with a lake or the ocean out back, and nearby hills and dales and woods and forests, and lots of comfortable places to sit, outdoor and indoor fires, food and drink for every taste, art studios, sewing circles, writing workshops, jam sessions in music studios and late-night dens of iniquity alike, and at least one all-night dance party or two.I promise you all I won't forget about you! I hope at least some of us can convene someday. I feel like I know a lot of people on here so well, and you have all been so kind, and seem like such rad, diverse and interesting women.Okay...I guess that's all I have to say. <3 :)The problem with male philosophers is that they are too close minded to acknowledge female philosophers/ feminist philosophers. To male philosophers, everything is set in stone and no reasonably argument can convince them.I don't know why I'm shocked that men are so clueless and distinctly lacking in philosophical chops in r/philosophy, and why they would be such misogynists in a sub designed for thinkersFeminist philosophy isn't real philosophy, duh!tangentially related: https://np.reddit.com/r/enoughpetersonspam/comments/86tnz7/im_a_college_philosophy_professor_jordan_peterson/I masochisticly (not a word but whatever) read most of your threads and I learned a lot, so thank-you. Also I think you should definitely write a book. The way you describe things with passion, simplicity and intelligence is really wonderful.One of the more interesting comments made in the original article was that the ideal way to combat the "degrading" style of porn would be either better education in schools on what normal sex is or, and this was interesting, "pornography showing the contrary"I took this to basically mean "feminist porn". Out of curiosity I searched that on PornHub. About half of the results fell into the category of "feminist humiliation" while the other half involved the women doing the fucking using strap ons.So whether or not one agrees with the recommendation, it's pretty fair to say it hasn't really been tried yet.  That's why I said in the thread in r/philosophy to someone to look up "feminist porn," and you'll find it's the same old stuff-- S&M, misogyny, gonzo porn-- dressed up in gender-edgy clothing.There's not a lot of porn that tries to subvert the mainstream pornographic content by specifically showing loving, affectionate, mutually pleasurable sex, with some sort of storyline to ground it. I don't know if it would be especially popular and I also don't know if true intimacy is compatible with pornography, although I believe some people have tried it.My intent wasn't to say that what feminist porn is out there isn't real feminist porn, it was more to say that there isn't even any pornography out there attempting to claim it's feminist.  Oh, there is, though! There are whole companies of pornographers that claim to be feminist porn auteurs, for example.It's not readily evident then. Do you have any examples?We don't link to/recommend porn here. Try the wikipedia entry for feminist pornography.Spoiler: there isn't really any, it all harms women.  I did actually check that and articles similar. Virtually all of it is professional grade and behind paywalls.All of them stress the consent of their actors which, while I'm sure many here would say they disagree because it's either still objectifying in general or because they think the consent is because they're in financial distress, many others would say is fine. In addition there's the type of sex involved, etc.ALL porn is exploitative.  Women especially do not go into this "industry" because of "choice."  They do it out of financial desperation.There is NO "good porn."  This shit needs to be made illegal.So not to completely go full libfem, but you don't think there are ANY women that do porn that have NOT "internalized misogyny" or similar while still wanting to do the work? What about pornography where the actors involved are married? Women that choose to do it on their own where they striptease on camera without actually having sex? Drawn porn?Where do you draw the line?  I can't even bring myself to read this, but all I'll say is that this debate and the trans debate hasn't half rooted out the misogynists that permeate academic philosophy. I'm not surprised as my experience as a woman philosopher has been nothing short of appalling, and it's constant. There's certainly a lot of rhetoricians masquerading as philosophers and it's so good to see them for who and what they really are. As soon as you conduct yourself in such a way that is the antithesis to philosophical discourse and practice, you cease to have the privilege of being a philosopher irrespective of qualifications.  You should see the man I am "debating" with now. I have absolutely no formal training in philosophy, and yet easily refute every single one of his statements. He commented on a post of mine about the epidemic of rape in the United States, in which I reported my own experiences and those of my peers as well as my extensive research,  by saying that I was in an "echo chamber" and that because men could not go to a shopping mall and shout rape-supportive things at passerby, this means we do not live in a rape-supportive culture. He then wrote some word salad which entailed not understanding the meaning of cognitive dissonance and ended with some rambling about how #metoo feminism was trying to destroy the working class, and when I responded by thoroughly picking him apart he responded with yet more idiocy in which he actually called me "you people" and told me that "someone like me"--which, according to the topic of the original post, means someone who is a survivor of molestation, domestic violence, and multiple rape--is a tool of "upper-middle class feminism" whose aim is to strip rights away from working-class men (as I inferred from his use of the term "the 'patriarchal and lower classes'").Yes, this is what someone is actually trying to argue, trying to pass off as philosophy, and saying to a rape survivor, who fortunately happens to be one hundred times better at rhetoric and logic than he will ever be.It's really dismaying to see how smart this person thinks he is, though. It's actually really alarming. Is this par for the course in philosophy- men of this level of both misogyny and mediocrity?  Is he a declared (or should that be self-identified?) professional philosopher? Either way, what an insensitive, gas-lighting, self-centered dh. It looks like such a disjointed, incoherent whinge. Almost definitely a Ben Shapiro fan. Just imagine how self-centred one has to be to speak to a victim of male violence in that way, and position men as the victims of metoo, while simultaneously trying to speak for working class women (AS IF he gives a single flying fuck about that demographic)I wouldn't say it's par for the course, these types just tend to be the most forceful and vocal (empty vessels make the most noise and all that) about bludgeoning others from a position of perceived (though entirely unwarranted) intellectual and moral superiority. This is typical of an inexperienced and immature philosopher whose skills in intellectual humility, self-directed critical analysis and argumentation have some way to go (around 1st - 2nd year undergrad). And insofar as professional philosophers are like this, for every one of these chumps, there are several stellar, solid male philosophers. That said, philosophy still has a loooooong way to go - I'm only beginning to realise that insofar as feminist issues are being taken seriously in academic philosophy, it's only the softer issues like equal representation and unconscious biases that are receiving most of the attention. And even then, the male philosophers who have been most vocal about their feminist credentials are actually raging misogynists because their objective isn't to make philosophy better for women, it's to speak for women without actually having to listen to them by trying to set the parameters around what feminist issues are allowed, and which ones are not. These days all it takes to test the feminist and philosophical chops of male colleagues is to ask them to provide a definition of 'woman'. It's such a good litmus test.Edit: I've just scanned through this, and the author of the piece is someone I know recently tried to shut down GC feminists in his dept., only to later apologise for his characterisation of a GCF supporting colleague (but not for interfering with feminist philosophy). Alas, perfect example of an oh-so-feminist philosopher who's just a charlatan.And I have to say, a lot of the stuff that's coming out of American philosophy depts. on social issues like this echoes a lot of what's going on in your specific discussion (unchecked assumptions, ideologically driven mental and conceptual gymnastics to justify their personal misogyny, abandonement of philosophical principles, etc.). I've no doubt this is the direct result of the current political vortex america finds itself in (and the same applies to us here in the UK, too). Even so, it's no excuse for professional philosophers to take leave of their philosophical aptitude. This guy, I assure you, may be educated in philosophy, but he's no philosopher by way of disposition or practice.Too many men--I won't say all of them because out of 3.5 billion or so of them not all are going to be this way--are complete and total trash, full of entitlement toward women.It matters not where their politics falls.  Typically the left males are worse because they are much sneakier about their hatred for women than the right.  Men are so full of entitlement and thickheadedness, they don't even care pornography is exploiting of other people, chiefly women, to facilitate male masturbation.  Either that or they are too stupid to see it and instead prefer to dissociate from the reality of porn as human rights abuse.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Im from Maine and was in Model State and met her and she has always been like this. Shes never been pro-woman or pro-anything unless it lined her pockets. I dont think she deserves the hate from men but the hate is definitely deserved. Ive never been a fan of hers.Yeah it's possible to disagree with women without resorting to sexist attacks. Most brogressives seem to use conservative women as an excuse to unleash their misogyny ontoI feel like the shitty women receive more hate than most of the shitty men. Its bullshit. But also fuck Susan Collins and every pro-forced birth politician trying to control our bodiesPretty much sums it up for me.Patriarchy will always find women useful when we disagree with a man and defend male violence. I dislike women who accept these terms of engagement, but I save my hatred for the patriarchy itself that supervises and manipulates every thought and deed a woman does in service to its own dominance.Liberal men love a chance to call a woman a bitch - but they cant because theyre male feminists.  So theyre well chuffed with right-wing women, as they can call her a bitch for women, because theyre feminist!!!!. Like that embarrassment to the species who kicked a prolife woman in the face.Not in my name, bros, not in my name.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.I very much doubt that Ilhan Omar read this review.I very much believe the only thing Omar has read in relation to trans participation in women's sports is an opinion poll showing how many democratic voters find it woke to support trans inclusivity in everythingYou're leaving out the fact that it was probably a Twitter poll.Ayup.Ilhan Omar is just trying to come off as progressive to counteract the recent revelation that shes antisemitic AF. She ran unopposed by Republicans, she doesnt deserve her seat.Yeah because her district is heavily Somali/Muslim and located in the heart of Minneapolis. It's the epicenter of liberal everything. Republicans stand no chance at all in that district so they don't try.The district is probably only ~10% Somali at most, but the amount of outreach and effort the DFL spends mobilising the Somali community for elections is obscene. They could do so much more with those resources than just focus on one section of Minneapolis.Also, I nearly vomited in my mouth when I saw video clips of her and Keith Ellison campaigning at the local mosques while segregated by sex. You want her to be your congresswoman, but you won't even let her in the same room as you at your special clubhouse to give a speech?Boycotting musicians and artists from South Africa was an anti-apartheid tactic. BDS seems to be trying to use the same boycott strategy.how is she antisemitic?  She tweeted something about Israels evil doings that she wanted Allah to get the world to wake up and recognize. Im pretty sensitive to anti-semitism, and even I think thats really weaksauce. Theres nothing wrong with thinking the actions of Israel wrt Palestinians are beyond the pale.It wasn't just Israel's "evil doings", it was that they've "hypnotized" the world. Anything refering to Jewish people or Israel in those terms or anything implying that they have some secret control behind the scenes is a huge red flag/anti-Semitic dog whistle.I hadnt thought of that, and its a good point. Its also inaccurate since Israel isnt popular outside of the U.S. and Israel itself.She supports BDS, which makes some people jump to that conclusion.yeah i'm aware of her support of bds, but was curious if there was anything else to the story...She keeps using antisemitic dogwhistles. Theres that hypnotizing tweet from a while back, and more recently she rants about (((them))) as her enemies. She doesnt use the parentheses but she might as well. Who else would she be referring to as they?And yes, fully advocating for BDS (which includes discriminating against Israelis by virtue of their nationality) is antisemitic. Its one thing to boycott products made in occupied areas, another thing to boycott a scientist or musician from Tel Aviv.  BDS ends up being the latter a bunch of the time.i'm not on twitter, so i can't comment on either of your tweet references, but i will say...bds is not anti-semitic. boycotting individuals silently complicit with the occupation isn't jew hatred, ever. the israeli government trades on its country's cultural and scientific successes to get political immunity for the occupation, which makes the cultural and scientific institutions (and the individuals who are representing those institutions) a legitimate target for boycott.israelis who themselves divest from the government and the occupation are not targeted under the banner of bds.Do you then boycott Chinese artists and academics as well? Americans? Russians? Saudi Arabians? Everyone is complicit of the crimes of their nation.  i mean... do you? are you engaged in activism for every single issue you have an opinion on? or do you choose the issues that matter the most to you and allocate your time and resources accordingly?there is a current, ongoing political and humanitarian crisis being caused by the israeli government. people are engaging in nonviolent activism to pressure the government to end the crisis. why do you have a problem with that? or is the suffering of the palestinians only to be attended to when the rest of the world is at peace?edited to add: for the record, if there was a mass social movement to boycott american academics or musicians until our government changed one of its many devastating foreign policy initiatives, i would support that movement 100%. peoples lives are more important than (a very small portion of) other people's careers.Even the most lazy observer can see that Ilhan Omar is performing a giant virtue signal. I don't think she expects any of the anger or reasoned argument she is going to get from this attempt to be the wokest.Also this:"continues to stoke fear and violence against one of the most at-risk communities in the world"Men who believe they are women are emphatically not the most at-risk community in the world by any measure. I will give you one guess as to what that community actually is.continues to stoke fear and violence against one of the most at-risk communities in the world"Every. Damned. Time.I dont know what it will take to break this lie. Here, from a trans activist org, their worldwide account of murders of trans AND gnc people for one calender year: 369.For the entire world. Im pretty sure more people were killed by lightning.https://transrespect.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/TvT_TMM_TDoR2018_SimpleTable_EN.pdf  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Wow, even trans studies is TERFY. Block and stay safe!LOL!I guess TRAs figure it doesn't matter since doctors are abandoning their guidelines anyway, but it's interesting that WPATH hasn't been attacked for its obvious terfyness. No SRS before 18? Filthy gatekeepers!Although I guess WPATH gives TRAs cover. They can pretend that those standards are the norm when normies express concern at the sterilization of children and the railroading of profoundly mentally ill people into irreversible body mods. But, considering how irrational and short-sighted TRAs are, I can't see them letting WPATH off the hook for much longer.    Lots of great lines and quotable quotes in this piece, especially from Andrea Long Chu:It's become quite fashionable in the past twenty years to talk about queerness or blackness, and more recently transness,  in an ontological way, often in Heideggerian tones. At the same time,  it remains the case that being dumb enough to write a book about womanness  would get you bounced from all the cool academic clubs faster than you  can say intersectionality.And then this:trans studies remains a field in which two men can sit around and debate the merits of woman as a political category (Green and Bey 2017). (Spoiler alert: They have their doubts.)(Not clear if ALC puts himself in this category)Yeah, Chu thinks he's a lesbian, so... kinda like the tweet where C Clymer says "lord grant me the confidence of a mediocre white man."Right, Chu was the TIM who wrote "My New Vagina Wont Make Me Happy" for the NYT, arguing for eliminating any gatekeeping around SRS while also being overly honest about his own poor mental health. Led to quite a dust up among TIMs, many of whom felt betrayed that Chu lifted the veil on the lie that surgery is the best remedy for gender dysphoria and should be covered by insurance (it shouldn't). I guess he's useful as a contrarian critiquing TRAs from within their community, someone who is willing to undermine some of their most pernicious false narratives. But he doesn't care one bit about what his ideology means for actual women.tl;dr Go off "Andrea"! But also? Fuck off Tim.Just yesterday Clymer claimed that he doesn't understand dick pics. As if being a toxic, predatory asshole is a foreign concept to him.Just yesterday Clymer claimed that he doesn't understand dick pics. As if being a toxic, predatory asshole is a foreign concept to him.I have been trying to stay away from his twitter for my own mental health but I had to see this delusion with my own eyes"A mediocre AND UGLY white man."There's a very easy rule, if a scientific field doesn't allow inquiries into the truth, then it is no longer a science but a religion.Reminds me Talia Mae Bettcher's idiotic article on the daily nous 'when tables speak'.Where he replied to Kathleen Stock's defence of gender critical radical feminism by pounding the table and crying that he teaches gender studies and he's totally an expert and how dare some uppity woman disagree with him.The fact that this sort of bullshit is tolerated doesn't just demote trans studies from the status of science. It demotes it from being academic at all.Link: http://dailynous.com/2018/05/30/tables-speak-existence-trans-philosophy-guest-talia-mae-bettcher/When discourse or dissenting opinions are prohibited, can something really be called "scholarly?">  Moral judgements about body modification run rampant in queer and trans  studies, all in the name of antinormativity politics. It's really sort  of incredible to me, the vitriol that queer theorists have for  phalloplasty.Not incredible if you understand sexism.Shocking to see someone straight up admitting that adherence to the ideology is more important than people's lives.As White (2000: 8) argues, histories told as satires gain their effects precisely by frustrating normal expectations about the kinds of resolutions provided by stories cast in other modes. This is our task, to write a trans satire.Good news, Trans Studies academics: everything you write and say is already indistinguishable from satire! Your work is done.Trans studies' political optimism has been grounded in the figure of the posttranssexual. Trans studies has been largely shaped by The Empire Strikes Back: A Posttranssexual Manifesto (1991), in which Sandy Stone tells a story about the university-based gender clinics and the development of a differential diagnosis (gender identity disorder). In Stone's version of the story, patients desperate to sneak past the medical gatekeepers, would rehearse and perform a false or inauthentic record of their lives in order to qualify for sex-reassignment surgery. They would circulate among themselves copies of Harry Benjamin's The Transsexual Phenomenon in order to know what to tell the doctors in their intake interviews. Stone tells this story in order to highlight the rehearsed nature of trans self-narrativizing and autobiography and in doing so she gestures to questions of authenticity.But, when parents in the ROGD study said their kids were doing this to obtain a diagnosis, no one listened.You think they want to hear from cisgendered heterosexual people?  Parents are cancelledOne great thing about being old, is I was able to raise my kids in simpler times.  The internet was so clunky then that they tried going on it once and decided they didn't like it.  Can't imagine trying to raise a kid with smartphones and social media. Can't imagine people thinking what was going on with my kids was none of my business.Ha! People can kiss my ass if they try to tell me any such thing.  I respect my kids privacy....to an extent.  There is a direct correlation between maturity level and how much privacy i will give you.  I think (i hope) my kids understand this.  Their actions and behavior determine how much i interfere in their lives as they grow up."Cisgendered" is a bunch of trans cult bullshit and means nothing... stop using trans cult nuspeak here.....I was trying to say it how I imagined they said it when dismissing the parents concerns.  Guess I should have put a "/s" at the endThis is why Queer Theory doesnt work. At some point queering becomes the norm and the institution and then what?Then you Queer Queerness... we'll all be back in the dark ages soon enough..Also, What cis scholar is going to intervene and say, Hey, I think we have this concept of dysphoria all wrong? That's just not going to happen.Well, when people disagree with trans dogma they lose their jobs so"Trans studies."  Now I've heard of everything.  The only "studies" should be among mental health professionals.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Which is why trans identified men hate drag too. Because it IS "woman face" and therefore invalidates their identities, because if men can dress up as women but still be men then what does their dressing up mean?They're just mad because drag queens are better at the lady face act than them. It's just males being jealous of other males.Actually, it's just straight Venus Envy. They all try to tuck their genitals back or chop it off cause they want what we have.Well yeah but their specific hate for drag queens is about them being able to appear more feminine than them without claiming to be female. Also drag queens are more "celebrated" than TIMs.ContraPoints was and still is super into drag but he's also the textbook definition of an autogynephileHe molested a cardboard cutout of a professor he didn't like and depicts himself sexually harassing TERFs (whome he also pretends to be).But the fact that he does all this to funky music with high production values under the guise of entertainment makes it okay.TIMs have tried to get drag queens bounced from a few pride events in the past.Which is rich considering the involvement of drag queens in Stonewall. I guess if you rebrand them as not drag queens it's OK though...Search r/atg for the word "drag" and you'll find a few long threads discussing it.um. Did you mean that subreddit?r/asktransgenderI have a friend who, upon coming out as trans, suddenly decided drag was offensive. We used to watch Drag Race together and she even performed drag.Read the sidebar if you'd like to continue posting in this sub.It's a cute nickname if you ask me. I'm stealing it.They're very obviously giving the mods the middle finger and bypassing a rule we've had since day one.  Hey, thanks for the heads up. New code installed to catch thisWhich rule?You should be if it's not necessary. Otherwise that's like textbook being an assholeOnce got into a debate wirh a libfem who thought it was okay for drag queens to use misogynistic terms like "fishy" because they were ~reclaiming~ it as if someone with a PENIS can reclaim a slur for VAGINAS. Why don't we have straight guys reclaim the f word, white people reclaim the n-word, etc.This reminds me of Clerks 2 where Randall tries to reclaim "porch monkey" and gets verbally assaulted by Wanda Sykes.I knew a woman who would police other women's language for any signs of "white feminism" - but she was okay with a white gay man we knew saying that he had a "sassy black woman!" inside him. That was perfectly okay in her mind, even when he would go into character mode. Why? Because he was "honoring" black women.Well, he's a man though!  Silly.  XPWomen appropriate, men honourGay and trans identified males know exactly what they're doing and even how to make you feel crazy and stupid for noticing it. Imagine the hissy fits if lesbians and bi women dressed as gay caricatures and mocked them.Imagine the hissy fits if lesbians and bi women dressed as gay caricatures and mocked them.Not exactly what you are saying, but butch lesbians dragging as macho men is akin to femme gay men dragging as femme women is the same. That's an equivalent comparison.I can't imagine any lesbian wanting to dress like a feminine gay man.But it's not.  The oppressed group (women) dressing as oppressors (men) is not offensive in the same way... it's an economically rational behavior.  There's no "whiteface" equivalent for black people.Well, there was that stupid sitcom in the 80s/90s where the black child star acted "white and nerdy," and that was the comedic premise of the show.And there's a female artist who paints a lot of portraits of African-Americans in whiteface, which I thought was pretty powerful, but when she had an invited show in Raleigh the social justice warriors were out in force deriding her, which I thought outrageous. Her whole point was to call attention to racial stereotypes and expectations, but because she was white and painting Black subjects she was lazily accused of being racist (not by the Black artist who had in fact invited her to show.)You described the difference between punching up and punching down. Typically when discussing social issues you want to say that both are bad.In this case, when the sexes are eventually equal, would you agree that it would be offensive?But here's the problem, men are at a higher station than women. With this in mind, drag for men becomes another tile in the mosaic of males bonding over female subjugation.Here's an article from 2011 (so long ago....) discussing the same thing. It's interesting that back when blackface was still being performed, it was defended with the same arguments used to defend drag: that it was a loving tribute, that it was an homage, that it was all in fun, no harm intended.The article is on point.I was amused that the website has a footer banner saying it is "supported by the pritzker foundation." Although I suppose it is in TiMs best interests to discourage drag.in blackface African-Americans were shown singing, or dancing, or being foolish, or longing for the old plantation, in drag women are shown nagging, or domineering, or primping, or longing for male protection. Each form even has two insulting types. Blackface offers Zip Coon (an urban dandy out of his depth) and Sambo (a shuffling rural fool), the first making fun of black people for being free and the second for being slaves. Drag presents the Glamor Girl and the Pantomime Dame, the first making fun of women for our sexuality and the second for our lack of it.Even men who intend their performance as a tribute to women are claiming, accidentally-on-purpose, the continued right to show women how were expected to act. The original exponents of blackface intended their work as an homage to the unique folk culture of African-Americans, but that intention couldnt protect the practice from the reasonable objection that one cant honor people by stealing from them, and that imitation is the sincerest form of mockery.Fuck yeah!Boy, I sure wish some of the people in these comments would read that. Because apparently blackface was always offensive, whereas drag is just the artistic emotional expression of men who are tasked with the heavy burden of masculinity and can't cope with all their manly responsibilities and trousers.Because blackface is offensive to black men, whereas drag is offensive to zero men. So we should just shut up because ZOMG WOMEN ARE SO SENSITIVE, CAN'T THEY TAKE A JOKE?!?!Yeah I always have that issue with drag. Dudes in dresses and makeup? All the power's the them! But dudes pretend-playing exaggerated caricatures of femininity? Not sure what their goals are, but drag acts don't seem at all critical or thoughtful. More like a game. Yet sex roles aren't remotely "a game" to most of us.No. Misogyny is just so accepted and ingrained no one gives af  The oppressed group (women) dressing as the oppressors (men) is absolutely different than the opposite. edit to add: this is why Rachel Dolezal is offensive but a black person passing as white is acceptable and rational, even if its sad/abhorrent that it is easier to be white than black.Here's a difference. I've never been to any drag shows of any kind, never seen anyone in drag IRL. Never seen a drag king in my life, anywhere, have no idea what they do. But I've seen drag queens since forever. RuPaul's Drag Race is popular mainstream entertainment, with millions and millions of viewers. Why is there no equivalent for drag king's, if they are the same? Where's their show, where is a movie starring them? It seems like people just must not find them as entertaining, in general. So what is inherently funnier about a man dressing as a gross caricature of a woman?And... Sexual arousal? Really? Seems like if that was the point of drag, they'd have to move RuPaul over to HBO.  Lesbian erasure, what?? No, I'm only pointing out that one is mainstream and easily encountered by anyone and the other is not.  No need to have a fit, Jesus.Right, because there isn't anything sexually arousing on regular cableNot really, no. Titillating, sure. Sexually arousing implies people are sitting around jerking off to it. Maybe someone is, but I really doubt that's how the majority are watching it.RuPaul is mainstream because of fag hags.Wow, TIL half the straight dudes at my work are "fag hags".Edit for formattingOMG, get a grip and stop putting words in my mouth.Lol or at least use terms correctly. "Lesbian erasure" doesn't mean what you think it means.There's no stereotype all men are grouped under to mock. Privilege of being the oppressor classI find drag queens reading story time to kids at libraries really weird.  What grown man wants to dress up as a hypersexualized woman to read to strangers' kids?  I KNOW. Ive been complaining about this for years and people always look at me like Im crazy lol but its blatantly offensive. Men get to put on makes and wigs and have fun pretending to be women, but then they get to take it off and leave the club and walk home without fearing for their safety. Its like they think my whole life and reality is a fun sexy costume and I dont understand why more women arent pissed about it.I've been all over (using a pseudonym) mainstream news sites making the point that yes, blackface by white people is/was offensive, but it's certainly not a criminal act, like that the Lt. Gov of Virginia was accused of.But you'd think, the way the MSM frame it, that wearing blackface is as violent as actually RAPING WOMEN.No, the sexist equivalent to blackface is dressing in drag and mocking women, or, making degrading comments about women in a yearbook 35 years ago.The equivalent to raping a woman would be assaulting a black person because of their race.My vote for the worst racism in the 1980s on college campuses was how black women could be raped with near impunity by men of all races because they weren't believed or else they knew that reporting a black man would bring the weight of unjust law enforcement onto another black person (and the rage of her own community onto her head.) But NOOO--we have to focus on a bunch of stupid frat photos instead of talking about s*it that would actually threaten people.It can be, but usually isnt. Some drag is good for underscoring the ridiculousness of gendered behavior and showing that gender truly is just a costume.A lot of drag, especially with the younger performers, is just guys trying to look as much like porn stars or sex dolls as possible. Its reinforcing stereotypes instead of undermining them.I like genderfuck drag that doesnt take itself seriously and admits its just a costume and actually has a bit of thought and a sense of gay history behind it.Instagram porn drag is blah.I really like the instagram drag like @isshehungry that is not really occupied with human dimorphism and gender roles but is more on the whimsical, weird and non-human side of "I am a dangerous insect!" - without going into annoying male default territory.I will have to check that out. :)I was thinking more of the men who just pose for porn style pinups and dont actually have any sort of performance or critique. Maybe calling them Instagram drag is unfair.Totally agree. If there's no performance, it's not drag. It's a cross dresser.Yeah, sorry, I got what you mean, my comment was a bit poorly connected to what you said, I wanted to point out that instagram also has interesting stuff besides the porn. I really agreed with your point that drag can be freeing because when it succeeds it shows the made-ness of gender and that -by men doing it- anybody can dress in all manners or behave in certain ways (that by conservatives get inscribed into the biology of women) - there's a distance in the parody that allows for recognition and reflection and that allows you to change things.No it's not https://www.feministcurrent.com/2014/04/25/why-has-drag-escaped-critique-from-feminists-and-the-lgbtq-community/To me it seems equivalent to cultural appropriation or the way in which white people have mocked black people, Asian people, Indigenous people, and pretty much every other race/ethnicity that isnt theirs, under the guise of performance or satire. Why is it cute or funny or entertaining for men to mock women via drag? Why is it not considered to be a form of cultural appropriation, but with regard to gender? Why have progressives and mainstream feminists avoided critique of these performances, in large part?Men aren't the ones who should be mocking gender especially the feminine, they are having fun mocking women not helping us to destroy patriarchy.Also it has its roots  in elizabethan theatre when women weren't allowed to act and were replaced by men creating the caricatures that they maintain alive today, it's part of women subjugation and oppression it does not contribute to our liberation despite the gaslight of gay men with the help of handmaidensThank you. Im really taken aback by a lot of the responses here.People are loathe to critically examine things they like. It's like when we discuss makeup here, or when we confront men about porn. If they like it, they typically will outright refuse to critique it.Women that refuse to critique drag are no different.I wish I could understand why I like drag so much, but I'm fine with people critiquing it and calling it misogynistic because it is.I mostly just watch Rupaul's Drag Race, which was an escape for me in a really difficult time in my life.I also have a difficult time with my relationship to femininity, I sometimes enjoy make up, and I used it as a mask for a while. Perhaps I identify with the 'characters' they create, because of my wish to be the perfect woman, one unaffected by patriarchy who can say whatever they want without fear of looking unladylike while looking fuckable and beautiful the way we're meant to.And being a lesbian, trying to fit in with mainstream gay culture is easier because lesbian culture doesn't seem to exist as much anymore it has been absorbed by 'queer' culture who have taken our unapologetic political approach but have applied it to trans people instead.That's perhaps a weirder analysis, but I think those are the reasons why I like it.You always have something thoughtful and measured to add to discussions PT, thank you so much. More nuance than in my own comments.I find drag annoying but I don't take it as a serious threat to women's rights and spaces.Yeah i feel that its evolved into its own form of a feminine theater that really has almost nothing to do with women. Its a space for gay men. I would be curious to hear from drag artists if they think its misogynistic at all.How do you feel about Blackface?Well black face isn't actually a serious threat to civil rights. It's disgustingly racist and should be condemned but there are way worse things like the right wing suppression and gutting of the voting rights act. Mass incarceration and poverty are all bigger problems to the black community than black face. I assume the poster meant similarlyReally? They seem reasonably comparable.But why? I dont think drag has to be bad by definition, but in its current state its just peak gay male acceptable misogyny. From reading your other comment, is your point that the struggles of black people (men) are worse than the struggles that non-black women face? (Obviously wed have to ignore black women to make that argument.) Im not trying to put words in your mouth, Im honestly asking because I dont understand why you think theyre incomparable.I wasnt trying to leave out black women, Im saying that I thought you were? Because youre saying that black men going through racism is incomparably worse than sexism, which puts black women on equal footing with black men, which I think its ridiculous and unfair.Yep Im white too? I might be misunderstanding the too but if youre implying that Im white just because Im disagreeing with you, youre wrong and I dont like the lazy white feminism! accusation.What am I reflecting on? Youve given me nothing to think about. You keep throwing out a bunch of accusations without backing any of them up. Youre insulting me only because I asked you to explain yourself and corrected your assumptions. Im not even offended because Im just so baffled by you, I really cant make sense of half of what youre going on about lmao.And I just told you Im not white and you, a white woman, call me a trumpist fem-tard.  And not that you knew, but youll be happy to know that you get bonus points for using tard against autistic person lmaoThis shit ain't worth it.I didn't want to go there but I swear it's only white radfems that make that type of comparison. I have yet to see a black woman say that drag is the same as blackface.Same here. To be honest it makes me a little uncomfortable, or at the very least I don't really think it's a comparison that white people should be initiating.I agree. I wonder if any of the white radfems who make that type of comparison have spoken to any black women in depth about it or asked for their opinion.How so?That's an interesting one. A lot of older women in my life hate drag for exactly this reason, whereas I love it. But I'm not going to do that libfem thing where everything I love is feminist, because no it's not. It started with gay men dressing in 'women's clothing' as protection which became a sort of art form in itself.Lesbians did the same thing, but feminists did the hard work of making pants acceptable for women to wear in public, and men don't want to do the same work for dresses and skirts and make up.Drag queens can definitely be misogynistic, and some of the jokes they use (looking like a woman is called being 'fishy', the frequent use of the word cunt, and talking about how gross vaginas are) definitely come into that category.I suppose I love it because it's a big theatrical spectacle and as a lesbian I like being in spaces where I probably won't get hit on by guys. It's complicatedIt started with gay men dressing in 'women's clothing' as protection which became a sort of art form in itself.Um, what?I suppose I love it because it's a big theatrical spectacle and as a lesbian I like being in spaces where I probably won't get hit on by guys.Oh well as long as its a fun spectacle for you and you feel safe I guess its okay.  /sWell, I guess I should do more research, but I assumed that part of it was protective.I never said it was okay. If you read my comment, I said I liked it despite knowing it's misogynistic.Nope. Thats what it is.I've always been uncomfortable with drag tbhAside from the sexist stereotypes involved, at least dudes in drag know theyre still dudes playing dress up and not real women.That's why the TIMs hate itIt is as offensive as black face for the same reasons. Women are allowed to be targets so were supposed to laugh along.That is exactly what it is.I have been making this point on and off - the old-fashioned, balloons in tops and garish makeup are definitely eerily similar to black face in not good ways.Not quite as "bad" given the different genesis and the history of blackface, but pretty darn close.I used to be pro-drag until I watched a season of RuPauls Drag Race.  There were a few characters I loved, who did not seem misogynist at all.  (Jinkx Monsoon lol). But most of the men, when in character, seemed to be the worst stereotype of a bimbo.  They called each other bitch, talked about being "fishy" or feminine, and gossiped and acted like fools.  Most of them didn't even make jokes or have a sense of humor, which I thought was the point of drag.  No, they called themselves "pageant girls", and the point seemed to be to do womanhood better than actual women.  If I dressed up like the "pageant girls", no one would find it clever or entertaining.  I do think many drag artists are doing it in good faith, but in general, I find it very misogynistic.That's not what being a pageant girl means: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Drag_pageantryI also really liked Jinkx! It's really telling that Jinkx was considered an outsider by the other guys. They bullied the shit outta him just because he didn't want to be nasty and gossipy, and because his style was pretty unusual/unique because it had a lot of old fashioned elements.Jinkx seemed very kind and sensitive, and it was terrible watching them tear him apart. I'm so, so glad he won. He really deserved it.His Little Edie was killer. Fun Fact: Jinkx identifies as non-binary and has a trans partner!Are we allowed to watch Tootsie, La Cage aux Folles/The Birdcage, Some Like It Hot and/or the video of "I Want To Break Free" by Queen?The Year of Living Dangerously?I have always felt this way from a young age. Drag is men thinking they can be better women than women, and also making fun of us. I have a gay male friend who finds drage a freeing experience, but I don't get it.I've always struggled with certain kinds of drag that clearly seemed to be mocking women.But I'm not really sure how to respond to it because it's so inextricably linked with gay men's performance around their own past oppressions. So it's not for me to unilaterally decry it.I don't think gay men should get a pass to mock women just because they were victimised by straight men.Gay men (and women) are victimized and oppressed by all heterosexuals, not just straight men.I don't see anything wrong with it. Blackface has a historical and racist background, drag was once a progressive form of art and to some extend it still is IMO. Not comparable." Modern drag shows do the exact same thing with gender. They exaggerate the physical features associated with women, and embrace and reproduce harmful stereotype associated with womanhood; namely that women are dumb fuckable objects that exist for our entertainment. "Again I don't see it like that. Dragqueens are men dressed-up in "feminine clothing" covered in makeup and don't let anyone in doubt about they being men nevertheless. Yes, the shows are often over the top with a lot of feminine cliche in it but in general they crash genderstereotypes and for me this is a good thing.They don't ask for access to the women's toilet or locker-room just because they are dressed-up like women. Transgenders on the other hand...drag was once a progressive form of art and to some extend it still is IMO.According to gay men, and those who agree with them. But whether it is or ever was progressive is the very question being discussed here, it is not a given. It isn't up to gay men whether performing as female caricatures is "progressive", it is up to women. Just because it was subversive relative to straight patriarchal culture doesn't mean it was automatically progressive regarding women.Dragqueens are men dressed-up in "feminine clothing" covered in makeup and don't let anyone in doubt about they being men neverthelessThis is completely analogous to blackface. Was anyone in blackface ever genuinely claiming to be black? No, their being white people 'dressed up as black' was the whole point, same as drag.They don't ask for access to the women's toilet or locker-room just because they are dressed-up like women. Transgenders on the other hand...Blackface performers certainly weren't in favor in integrated spaces. Yes it's bad that trans activists are demanding female space access, but drag performers not doing it doesn't have any bearing on the progressiveness of what they're doing in general, any more than you could say it was a point in favor of blackface wearers.Nah sorry. Blackface was and is a weapon of discrimination and racial hate. This has nothing to do with drag. The gay men used drag to break out of social conventions, as a form of art and to celebrate their own "feminine side". Lots of gay men admire the (often elderly) diva type of women and celebrate them in their shows. They are not dragqueens out of misogyny, the opposite in many cases. Probably some performers are misogynistic but not the majority.Blackface on the other hand was pure hate and white supremacy and I really don't understand why this is brought up here.The same argument (admiration) is used by the Dutch to defend modern day depictions of Zwarte Piet.  I really agree with the person you are responding to... something can be progressive for one group while actively hurting another group (see self-ID).Blackface and Zwarte Piet result out of different "traditions" but both are based on white supremacy.Drag has historically very different roots and is not based on/a result of misogyny.I am not a fan of this term but mixing drag and blackface up as equally bad is really something I would consider "white feminism". Way out of proportion.I don't understand how a group of men dressing and acting as caricatures/stereotypes of women could in any way not be due to misogyny.  No matter what the roots or original intentions are, the result is the exact same.I think it's quite telling that you dismiss women's complaints so easily. Yet again we're told it's a joke and to not take it seriously.Because the oppression of white women is so much less important than any oppression that includes men too.Drag comes from a misogynistic culture, but you are certain it's completely unrelated to it.Yes, I see it as a form of art and things like the Rocky Horror Picture Show come into my mind. Maybe there are dragqueens who make a mockery out of women I am not denying this but in general drag is in my eyes about breaking conservative gender cliches and entertainment. So I have no problem with it. And it isn't historically rooted in misogyny like blackface in racism for example so I simply don't see the similarities.I am very sensitive towards the oppression of women, be it white women or WOC doesn't matter. But drag is in my opinion a very eccentric niche and not part of it.Softcoreporn on Instagram, every second music video and many many other things, deeply rooted and accepted in our culture, are based on misogyny and women's objectification and oppression but drag? I can only speak for myself but I think no.It's historically rooted in misogyny. It came about as a result of women not being allowed in theater.Blackface started out as an homage to black culture. Maybe read a history book before you make these wild, inaccurate claims.Blackface did not start as a homage to black culture. So maybe you should follow your own advice. And women not being allowed in the theatre has no straight connection to drag.Maybe some people here should get their hatred for gay men in check instead of exploiting blackface.Yes, I see it as a form of artSo did a lot of the minstrel performers, traditionally see their shows as a form of "art"things like the Rocky Horror Picture Show come into my mind.You don't see that as misogynist?And it isn't historically rooted in misogynyHow could it be rooted in anything else?I think drag makes fun of gender. Some drag performers are most sexist than others, since theyre men, but the act itself is not inherently negative. Thats like saying acting it oppressive - the whole idea is to perform like someone youre not. How well you do at that and what the crowd approves of is, of course, part of the larger social power dynamics. And the performers - like the vaudeville actors in blackface - are often exaggerated package of stereotypes. But in a sense I say the same about women in women-face - we are all performing gender whether we like or not and sometimes people add very offensive elements to it.the idea is that drag queens are harmful caricatures of women. It's not inherently wrong for men to wear skirts. But crude caricatures of how women dress and act are not any less offensive than any other stereotype-ridden caricature that we've socially agreed on as being harmful and offensive.Oooooh I've never thought of it that way. Very interesting!  I think it depends on the act and what is being expressed, just like with stand-up comedy and other performances. I've seen drag that is a subversive and playful exploration of different ideas and personas (mostly grandiose ones) that can reveal things through parody and drag that is kicking downwards and mocking. Most of the time the performers are clear on playing a role, for me it goes into weird/cringe territory when trans ideas come into it, and it's suddenly about essence and being instead of imitation and play. (Interesting aside: I recall that Ru Paul was accused of being transphobic when he wouldn't let TiM compete when actually it was rather that he was pro trans and sexist because he accepted that TiMs are women and wanted to exclude women from drag.) I think an important difference to minstrel shows is (though I'm not from the USA and not that familiar with them) that with them you had wealthier, white people laughing at caricatures of poor black people to preserve their power over them. Most drag queens imitate "divas" and - as the name says - "queens", so a very specific group of women that are rich and powerful.  No, not at all. If were going to have the idea that men should be able to wear dresses and still be men, then drag is great. I dont see it as offensive at all, It should be aligned with the philosophy of this subreddit. I think you are misinterpreting if you think they are making fun of women, really they are just having fun breaking out of the gender boxes for a night.I would accept this if they didn't adopt an exaggerated "female" persona as soon as the makeup and dress comes on. There is no tearing down of gender boxes, on the contrary.It'd be a completely different subject if they simply dressed how they pleased but kept their name, their mannerisms, instead.Never known anyone as bitchy as a man in drag. Which of course is the ultimate in Woman Personality <eyeroll>except they only wear dresses when they want to parody women. they don't wear them to work or anythingi agree, honestly most performers don't seem to "act a caricature of a woman" to me, they are just themselves with a wig and make up on, telling jokes or lipsyncing or singing, and they don't hide it. i've always seen it as an expression of gender noncomformity and nothing else. they call themselves men and don't expect to be treated as women or claim to know what being a woman feels like, and the culture around it can definitely be misogynistic, but that's not specific to drag itself, it's just like how it is everywhere. in itself, it's neutral, and a lot of performers can simply be appreciated from an artistic point of view.A lot of gay male behaviours are misogynisticexactly, so it's not a drag specific problem, as a practice itself it's neutral, but drag queens' behavior as individuals can definitely be misogynistic in a lot of ways lolI would point out that a lot of them dont just act like caricature of women, but caricatures of black and Latina women.Men in drag get a lot of passes that women dont. If a drag queen snatched a wig literally, its amusing and fierce, when a black woman does it, its ghetto.There was a time when it was harmless, but considering that women emulate and want to be like drag queens its a bit of a social contagion now. Misogyny aside, its hypersexualized and vapidly materialistic. While its fine if you like watching it as entertainment and perhaps it does have its place in promoting GNC, its not without its myriad of problems.You can't possibly be serious.It's so clearly misogyny. Yes, males and women performing and being gender non-conforming I can get behind. But these males are putting on gigantic fake breasts and become catty, annoying stereotypes of women. Drag culture is seeping with a hatred of women and it is definitely very similar to black face especially when you see how similar defenses for blackface and drag are the same. "Oh it's just for fun! We are celebrating black people/women!"Honestly, I like the costumes and fashion of drag in the same way I like looking at high end fashion. Both are problematic for different reasons.However I like the wigs and the makeup.I like songs and people expressing themselves.I don't like all the personas but I like the creative expressions. If there were more and different personas that would be good.I mean I also like Venus de Milo as a drag queen, and she's a woman.I like lady Gaga's costumes.I like dress up.So there is seld expression. The drag shows I have been to, a lot of the performers talk about struggles of being gay and kicked out. None of this "fishy" business.If someone wants to do costume karaoke or lip synching, I'm cool with it.So I think it is forced femininity face, not women face. I want to laugh along.I am just waiting for drag kings to start fake wars and while accusing the drag queens of violence.Aw I thought this sub would be okay with drag cause its basically over the top laughing at gender stereotypes for both drag kings and queens, which is fun. Its also usually performed at night in the club scene. Thought drag would be much more palatable for this sub as opposed to someone who genuinely believes they are the gender and try all day to be passable. Ones a game everyones in on and the other is a game no one is in on kinda thing. Maybe Im just ranting.The sub isnt a monolith. I was firmly pro-drag when I joined but some of the arguments here have allowed me to look at it more critically and admit that there is an undercurrent of misogyny involved. Its a good thing to read opinions you dont agree with for this reason :)Undercurrent is an understatement in the drag shows I've witnessed.This sub has done a lot to open my mind and it closes my mind in some ways so its a tough line to walk but its always worth it:)I just really enjoy watching a local drag show to see both men and women dress up in ridiculous outfits and put on entertaining shows.  And since I watch drag kings and queens play the gender fuck game, I dont see the underlying misogyny. If I spent my time on Instagram looking at drag queen makeup, maybe I would have a different, maybe more critical view of it.Yeah, this is one of the topics I disagree with when it comes to radfeminism even if I understand the criticism and freely acknowledge gay men can be every bit misogynistic as straight men.Oh yessss I completely agree that both gay and straight men can be misogynistic. Thanks for your input, appreciate knowing Im not the only one thinking this way :)And blackface is over the top laughing at racial stereotypes. I think you are underestimating the amount of woman hating involved in drag-- but correctly estimating the amount of black hating involved in blackface. It's an issue of consciousness.Oh and the unfortunate mix of racism within the drag community is also an issueI have a problem with men pretending to be women so they can have an evening of misogynistic shits and giggles and then all it takes is one good face wash/change of clothes and the next morning its off to reap all the male privilege they believe theyre entitled to!I completely agree about the male privilege. In my experience, when I go to a local drag bar its usually gay people of colour in drag taking dollar bills from rich white straight girls on a bachelorette party, so its all relative.Drag shouldn't be immune from criticism, no. Have you considered how you feel about drag kings? I know this seems like a silly topic for a phd thesis but I know of at least one person who has written a thesis on the cultural/musical significance drag queen lip syncing lol. So I'm sure there are some academic papers on the topic that might help answer your questions.I do see what you mean. In Australia the football teams dress up as women for their end of season party, and it is exactly what you describe. I suspect however there is more to drag within the gay culture. What that is exactly, I'm not sure, but I think the academic papers may shed some light on what is has to do with gayness, if you know what I mean.edit: Also I've never seen that Ru Paul show, only drag shows at gay clubs. So that is the limited level of familiarity I'm coming from.I'm not sure what you are talking about, that there is more to drag in gay culture. I'm just wondering because while I only have known one guy seriously into drag and one is a terrible sample size, this guy was hetero and stereo typically male at every other time of the day and I found him MORE sexist than most guys. He also talked to me like he was so woke and knows everything about women thanks to being into drag but again, he was really sexist, even when talking about how he claims to know so much about women. And he was very ignorant of the problems gay men and women face while pretending he gave a crap.Straight men putting on dresses in a madlad way is different from drag. Straight men using gay ideation as a bonding exercise is another interesting conversation. There was an interesting askreddit thread about gay behavior as bonding in the armed forces a while back. Its maybe a mix of showing youre super straight and masculine because you can snog your mate without it casting any doubts on your hetero manly credentials? Or maybe men are just touch and affection starved and theres more judgement placed on men with bi tendencies by their fellow men? Drag has a lot of history in gay culture. Even in Victorian Times the gay parties broken up by the police featured men crossdressing. When homosexuality was considered an illness you can see why the not a real man narrative entered the code and was actually adopted and woven into gay culture.Then you have ball culture which was an aspirational and subversive commentary of American high society.I think its overly simplistic to say its just an offensive parody of womanhood, although 90% of it is these days. Theres a long history of men and women using crossdressing to express homosexuality.Personally I have no issues with drag. I see it as intended to ridicule the expected norm by overemphasising those things. Its not a caricature of womanhood, or manhood, its a caricature of societal expectations of those things. The same things drag queens emphasise and play out are the exact things we complain of being expected of women, so how can we argue that its offensive to us when the things they do have literally nothing to do with us as a whole.By using female slurs like "bitch"? How about "Fish"?Yes, so clever to call female genitals stinky fish "fish" is actually in reference to the common english phrase "fishy" as in the person looks the part to such an extent as to warrant doubt. I have had this origin confirmed by no less than 10 eldergay drag queens. Every time I bring it up I'm downvoted (doesn't change the facts, though), so I kinda feel like this "new," conveniently offense "fish = smell" origin story is sticking more than the real one, but I'll keep at it!Ive seen the casual bitch stuff, again exaggerating the whole persona thing (and most people use bitch pretty casually now, more intended as a low level joking insult in groups Ive seen, or using it for impact) but not the other thing, not in any of the shows Ive seen.Just because a sexist slur is commonplace, doesn't mean it's okay.I wasnt saying its ok, though the vast majority of people now wouldnt consider it a sexist slur because language is picked up from parents and peers and the intention behind a word is important, and meanings evolve. When someone calls a person a bitch theyre not saying that theyre a female dog, and theyre not saying theyre a woman with high sexual desire. Often, in context, in drag its not being used as an insult at all. The main point, anyway, is its not an intrinsic part of drag and I was talking about the intentions behind that act. The use of these sorts of words by some performers wasnt relevant to what I was saying, because theyre often not even using the words because theyre in drag, but more because the gay community use it a great deal.What about mocking female privates? Like "fish", which is a disgusting, revolting term for our genitals, that is used by all males starting at around agre 12 (we've all heard the vile "jokes" starting in middle school...) it's not just "bitch" either... it's "whore, slut", etc, so IMO using sexist slurs aren't expressive, it's Misogynistic. Why go there at all?I really don't buy that bitch has evolved... it's still used to target women who stick up for themselves. It's still used by men to mock other men, when they want to use an insult that compares them to what they consider,  a lesser, weaker human being -- women.I'd be more impressed if they were acting like typical men wearing feminine clothing... that would be revolutionary. Instead they are using Misogynistic stereotypes for laughs. Mocking the very weight (femininity) used to continue our oppression.I don't think being gay is an excuse either.As I just said Ive not witnessed the fish thing (never heard it used as a term for the vulva/vagina, only heard it referenced as a potential smell by girls themselves as a joke - though its not untrue in the case where someone has BV), and since we were talking about drag I havent seen it there. So Im not going to take issue with drag based on a few members of that community being assholes.And I wasnt saying being gay was an excuse, my point was that in the cases where Ive heard bitch used it hasnt been as an insult, more an endearing term. Youre getting into a whole other area talking about stupid kids at school.Yeah men wearing feminine clothing is fine, but I dont have an issue with drag on both sides attacking the stereotypes that exist. Drag generally isnt done for laughs, it has always been more of a performance when Ive witnessed it. Usually any humour revolves around the intense discomfort involved with tucking.Hear hear.Oh no.. I used to have so much fun at drag shows... Look at you radfems taking my ignorance away left and right. Damn kill-joy women-lovers! <3yes, it sucks to look at the world differently. I totally get where you're coming from. Some of my formerly favorite popular culture is not enjoyable in the same way.Feminist kill joy.  I mean it's true though isn't it? Feminism kind of does kill our joy.  But that's only because our joy is of misogynistic and patriarchal things.  We just need to replace those with better things, then we won't need to worry about loss of joy any more :)Cute T-shirthttps://www.cafepress.com/sorryfeminismruinssexistjokesOne should be careful to not slip into bigotry thoughI do get what point you are trying to make, but comparing drag to blackface is ridiculous and shit like this is why we are laughed at and not taken seriously. How can we have a serious conversation about women's rights if we are comparing ourselves to black americans? COME ON!I don't get this argument at all. Are black women not also women who can be parodied in drag as well as blackface? Why should they be treated as two separate things?Furthermore, misogyny is a timeless issue that transcends race completely; every culture on earth has had to deal with it in one way or another.Two vastly different things with different connotations.The black woman experience is not comparable to that of the white woman.And, sure, while every woman has to deal with misogyny in one way or another, the treatment of black women is historically much worse than that of white women.Do not attempt to minimize the black experience, particularly the black woman experience just because misogyny is everywhere.As feminists intersectionality matters. Being willingly oblivious to the way race ties to specific misogynistic treatment in our culture is something that needs remediating.You're not really arguing the point about why drag isn't misogynistic or comparable to blackface; you're just saying that it isn't purely because you think blackface worse. I'm also not comparing the experience of white women to black women. You're making a counterargument to a point that I haven't made.This is the same argument I used to have with people who didn't think the gay rights movement (particularly the fight for legal marriage) was legitimate because African Americans were still being discriminated against.  mf thank you!Yuuuup! Comparing terrible experiences to the black experience is always a far reach and an almost always, if not entirely, white thing to do.Exactly!  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.  These sort of articles always presume women are acting irrationally when we don't unapologetically demand a promotion/rise the same way a man would. They put it on our lack of confidence when in reality women are acting quite rationally because we realise we wouldn't be treated in the same way and that we're often penalized for exhibiting such "unladylike" behaviour. Our "lack of confidence" is a consequence of how we're treated in the workplace not a fucking cause of it.Every girl learns, early in life, that when her brother asks for something and gets it, it doesn't mean she will be treated in the same way. It doesn't work for girls the same way it works for boys. The rules are different when it comes to us.We both know this, and know that men will insist this isn't true. That everything is fair. And that's the lie we're left to sit with.Yes. I was recently laid off and Im convinced its because I always ask for a raise - Ive never had a bad review (only great reviews) and they couldnt fire me like they really wanted to do my position was eliminated.Utterly infuriating article. Women become perfectionists because we are presumed to be incompetent and our errors are punished more severely as a result. From the comments:Im a female mechanical engineer. When I graduated in the early 2000s, only 8% of graduating MEs nationwide were female. At the time I believe it was the worst gender ratio of the engineering disciplines.Heres what Ive noticed. As a woman, my mistakes are simply not tolerated. They are shoved in my face, cant live them down. Mens mistakes, mistakes that are far worse, are either forgotten or spoken of quietly. I cannot afford to make a technical error. In the line above, Im pretty darn sure it was the worst ratio, but Im hedging because someone will just loooooove to call me out on that, for some obscure degree that graduates all of 4 men a year. I even have to prep to go do vender shows, as the men at the booths assume Im non-technical. If I dont walk in asking a hard question from the start, Im blown off. Next man comes in, the vendor gets technical.I have to prep. I have to be more prepared. Men can skate through life on confidence, with learning experiences. Women are punished for them.Here, were even being blamed for caring, for trying to compensate.A guy has to be really stupid before men start treating him like they do a woman who made one mistake one time.THIS.Ive also found that most men seem unable to tell the difference between objective mistakes and subjective questions of style.  You can do a piece of work perfectly but if you use curly arrows instead of straight ones and man can tell you youve got it wrong.  Then another man can later review the work and tell you that the (now straight) arrows are a mistake too.Better to ask why women think they need to be perfect, because girls learn early succeeding with mediocre performance is a male privilege.This  This piece made me furious!What kind of take is this? Girls work harder and turn in better work and thats why they fail in the real world.The reality is that our society is sexist as shit and no matter what women do they will be blamed for their own oppression. If boys were doing better in school, then that would be taken as proof of male intelligence and superiority. Somehow when women outperform men, its still is twisted to justify our lower position is society.Women make better doctors, lawyers, educators, etc. than men. Women perform better in all stages of life and deserve to be rewarded for it. The problem isnt lack of female confidence, the problem is male bigotry.Male behavior is held as the ideal even when they are measurably inferior.  In many years of teaching I have seen that little girls are conditioned earlier and harder to be quiet, polite and dutiful. It's sexism. It does benefit them somewhat at school - in grades and wrt suspensions. They have less major behaviour difficulties by far by age 8. On the other hand though, girls are much more likely to underestimate their own abilities and natural aptitude as opposed to boys (as this article implies). This is due to sexist socialization. That doesn't mean it shouldn't be challenged. Positive biases towards boys still exist in schools even as girls sit in front of us, neat, hard-working and docile. Boys get identified as "gifted" more and as "gifted underachiever" MUCH more.In my area, it is no stretch to say that girls get along easier in school. They have been socialized into behaviours that are beneficial in a school environment. These same behaviours are not rewarded in the workplace. Also sexist biases are intensified outside of the school system.I think the article misses the feminist argument to be made somewhat. But there is absolutely a conversation to be had on this topic and changes teschers and parents can make to respond to the imo very real issues the article suggests.I hate that people are mass panicking about boys doing so badly in school despite getting more individual attention than girls. And their solution isnt to teach boys to listen to their teachers (women of all people!), its to completely reform the school system that girls are excelling in. If girls were doing poorly I guarantee the blame would be on their tiny shoulders.Ugh enough with this fucking confidence bullshit already.  Women succeed in school because school is judged blind.  They dont succeed at work because their work is associated with them, a female.  The word is biased against females.  In Delusions of Gender I believe theres a line about how people over estimate the IQs of men by 3 points and under estimate the IQs of women by the same.  So a women needs to be 6 IQ points smarter than a man to be judged just as intelligent.I'm sorry but working in schools, I do not think this is the case. Treatment of children is not gender-blind. Girls are conditioned within and outside of school to be more polite, quiet, neat and conforming than boys. That benefits in a school system which values those traits. It does not benefit them quen they leave school.Edit - the IQ thing is almost certainly true. I would hazard that the same bias exists among many teachers and school admin though.Yea, I thought that comment was totally delusional. We do better in school because were socialized to do well in that setting. Im sure were doing just as well at work, but work is based totally on someones subjective opinion.... oh maybe thats what OP was trying to say lolYeah the evidence shows that women do better at a whole range of jobs, surgury comes to mind first. It's 100% relevant to point out the sexism that exists in the workplace. But it's important to not think school is "blind" or getting something right, it's really doing exactly what this article suggests - encouraging underconfidence and obedience, which definitely does hold girls back when they enter the workplace.Thats exactly what I was trying to say.  The systems of judgement at school are much fairer, whereas in the work place its much more subjective and therefore open to bias.  The world is biased against women, as soon as bias is a factor, women stop doing well. Of course there is bias throughout the way school is taught, but I think if I girl scores well in her exams, teachers cant keep her out of advanced programs!The marking is blind though, at least it is in my country.  Your papers gets submitted under a number, rather than your name.  The questions are marked separately too.  One marker does question 1, another question 2.  It helps to reduce bias in the marking.  Its a system that minimises bias.Of course what you are saying about girls being treated differently at school is true as well.  I wasnt trying to say that the confidence gap isnt there, but the way this article is written seems very victim blamey to me.  I think girls are consistently and repeatedly taught that they are worth less, that they have to be perfect and that causes anxieties and other problems.  I think girls lack of confidence and subsequent struggles in the workplace are caused by the same thing: patriarchy.That's surely after at least elementary school in which marking is based on observation and informal assessment just about as often as it is on formal exams.I agree with you that the writer obviously missed the feminist implications (what a surprise). But he's not saying children need to change on their own, he's saying a culture of expectations and encouragement of this behaviour in girls needs to be changed. Which is true and teachers and parents are in a position to do it.YES. This article made me so angry. I'm a grad student in physics and it is frustrating beyond belief to work with ill-prepared, overconfident male students. They derail classes, waste time in office hours, and monopolize the energy of professors that could go to female students who are prepared and respectful, and yet women are told that they aren't as successful in the field because they don't act like men. The IQ thing is so real-I see it every day. Why are women always being told to modify their behavior instead of men? No matter what we do we just can't win, it's never enough.Lets not forget that when women do act confident theyre seen as bitchy and aggressive.  Wasnt there a study that said women ask for pay rises just as much as men but employees look favourably on men doing it and negatively on women doing it.The article is bullshit, but I do disagree with your first line of text. I'm in STEM and I've seen plenty of fellow female classmates fail at finding a good internship because they were too nervous to ask for certain top positions in the field, or ended up doing repetitive lab work because all the guys + me and some other girl I don't know asked for the harder work, and got it, and they just sat aside and didn't do anything. Like there's already a lot working against us as women, so I think we should teach more women to be confident and ask for raises and demand better projects etc.Most gnc women I know do fine in STEM but more feminine women tend to act more submissive and dependent for whatever reason and end up falling behind. Men are taught their value from a young age, and these women are not.IQ also isn't a good measure of intelligence.I expressed my confidence comment poorly.  Theres another comment on this thread that says it better: women lack confidence because of how they are treated.  They are not treated badly because they lack confidence.  They are treated badly because they are female.  If a women is confident, often they are punished for that.IQ is a poor measure of intelligence, but I think Ive seen the same thing with other tests.  People underestimate girls performance at school, and overestimate boys performance.  In Delusions of Gender I believe they ask school children what they got in a maths test that they took a year before.  The girls subtracted marks from their own score, the boys add marks.Article for those who can't get past the paywall:From elementary school through college, girls are more disciplinedabout their schoolwork than boys; they study harder and get better grades. Girls consistently outperform boys academically. And yet, men nonetheless hold a staggering 95 percent of the top positions in the largest public companies.What if those same habits that propel girls to the top of their class  their hyper-conscientiousness about schoolwork  also hold them back in the work force?When investigating what deters professional advancement for women, the journalists Katty Kay and Claire Shipman found that a shortage of competence is less likely to be an obstacle than a shortage of confidence. When it comes to work-related confidence, they found men are far ahead. Underqualified and underprepared men dont think twice about leaning in, they wrote. Overqualified and overprepared, too many women still hold back. Women feel confident only when they are perfect.As a psychologist who works with teenagers, I hear this concern often from the parents of many of my patients. They routinely remark that their sons do just enough to keep the adults off their backs, while their daughters relentlessly grind, determined to leave no room for error. The girls dont stop until theyve polished each assignment to a high shine and rewritten their notes with color-coded precision.We need to ask: What if school is a confidence factory for our sons, but only a competence factory for our daughters?This possibility hit me when I was caring for an eighth grader in my practice. She got terrific grades but was feeling overwhelmed by school. Her brother, a ninth grader, had similarly excellent grades, but when I asked if he worked as hard as she did, she scoffed. If she worked on an assignment for an hour and got an A, she felt safe only if she spent a full hour on other assignments like it. Her brother, in contrast, flew through his work. When he brought home an A, she said, he felt like a stud. If his grades slipped a bit, he would take his effort up just a notch. But she never felt safe enough to ever put in less than maximum effort.That experience  of succeeding in school while exerting minimal or moderate effort  is a potentially crucial one. It may help our sons develop confidence, as they see how much they can accomplish simply by counting on their wits. For them, school serves as a test track, where they build their belief in their abilities and grow increasingly at ease relying on them. Our daughters, on the other hand, may miss the chance to gain confidence in their abilities if they always count on intellectual elbow grease alone.So how do we get hyper-conscientious girls (and boys, as there certainly are some with the same style) to build both confidence and competence at school?First, parents and teachers can stop praising inefficient overwork, even if it results in good grades. Gendered approaches to learning set in early, so its never too soon to start working against them. Recently, as I read Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban to my 8-year-old daughter, I stopped at a passage in which Hermione  the fictional poster child for academic fastidiousness  turned in an essay that was two rolls of parchment more than Professor Binns asked for. Hermione, I pointed out, doesnt make great use of her time. Shes a capable student and could probably do just as well without working so hard. Right, my daughter said. Of course she could!We can also encourage girls toward a different approach to school  one thats more focused on economy of effort, rather than how many hours they put in. Whenever one of the academically impressive and persistently anxious girls in my practice tells me about staying up until 2 in the morning studying, I see an opening. Thats the moment to push them to become tactical, to figure out how to continue learning and getting the same grades while doing a little bit less. I urge my patients  and my own teenage daughter  to begin study sessions by taking sample tests, to see how much they know before figuring out how much more they need to do to attain mastery over a concept or task. Many girls build up an incredible capacity for work, but they need these moments to discover and take pride in how much they already understand.Teachers, too, can challenge girls over-the-top tendencies. When a girl with a high-A average turns in extra credit work, her instructor might ask if she is truly taken with the subject or if she is looking to store up insurance points, as some girls call them. If its the former, more power to her. If its the latter, the teacher might encourage the student to trust that what she knows and the work she is already doing will almost certainly deliver the grade she wants. Educators can also point out to this student that she may not need insurance; she probably has a much better grasp of the material than she gives herself credit for.Finally, we can affirm for girls that it is normal and healthy to feel some anxiety about school. Too often, girls are anxious even about being anxious, so they turn to excessive studying for comfort. We can remind them that being a little bit nervous about schoolwork just means that they care about it, which of course they should.Even if neither you nor your daughter cares about becoming a chief executive, you may worry that she will eventually be crushed by the weight of her own academic habits. While a degree of stress promotes growth, working at top speed in every class at all times is unhealthy and unsustainable for even the most dedicated high school students. A colleague of mine likes to remind teenagers that in classes where any score above 90 counts as an A, the difference between a 91 and a 99 is a life.To be sure, the confidence gap is hardly the only thing keeping women out of top jobs. Women also face gender bias, sexual harassment and powerful structural barriers in the workplace. But confidence at school is one unequal advantage that we can address right now. Instead of standing by as our daughters make 50 flashcards when they were assigned 20, we can step in and ask them why. Many professional men brim with confidence because they have spent years getting to know their abilities. Women should arrive in the work world having done the same.Fuck this article. Tell girls to work less hard and they will what... be more successful? My assBullshi*t. They act like there's somehow this fair playing field in K-12 and UG/grad school where females irrationally overachieve and overcompensate when they don't need to. NO. Those females sense, early on, that they have to work twice as hard as males to be taken seriously.The teachers, parents, administrators, educational "researchers," MSM, and corporate America need to take responsibility for this culture--it doesn't need to be pushed off onto 10-20-year-old females.If I could have gotten ahold of the data of male instructors in my kids' amazing public charter, I have no doubt I could have demonstrated that he graded girls down. I know he did. But it would have taken a lawsuit and statewide scandal to have proven it. So I just got them through. But it was anecdotally screamingly obvious. A boy raises his hand and seems curious once a week and he gets a big participation grade--when a girl does it it's expected. Nothing new. If she writes something edgy, she's overcorrected and pushed down--if he does, he's a misunderstood and underappreiated genius in the rough. This begins WELL before corporate America.This is victim-blaming--part of the neoliberal agenda to blame individuals for structural workplace issues rather than ask, God forbid, corporations and academic institutions to take responsibility for their choices.Bullshit, as somebody who has done a ton of different jobs for two decades and has applied to tons of jobs in the process it isn't MY lack of confidence. Even when I apply to jobs that aren't predominately employing women I have noticed a huge lack of interviews from MEN over my working life. I've only ever been employed by two men ever, one of them to use me for a fake pro-woman agenda in a sausage party! Men don't really want to hire women even for a subordinate role.Women feel confident only when they are perfect.This quote really stood out to me because I've wrecked my self esteem and mental health with perfectionism. Looking through the comments, even though I have developed unhealthy behavior because of perfectionism, it seems like it's necessary for women to have success in some fields.Any chance someone can cut and paste the article into the comments?  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.NYT gets it wrong again.  It's SEX equality.Gender is a meaningless term now.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.If I kill myself its your fault is emotional manipulation 101. Its often what tethers victims to their abusers and creates co-dependent relationships.And what a world it would be if every woman (if men have souls them too /s) learned this from a young age.What a delusional man. Lesbians don't want to suck your dick. Threatening to kill yourself over it, is not the same as being threatened.more evidence of this whole phenomenon being more about mental illness than anything else, good lordYou shouldn't even listen to the TRA's mindless rants about lesbians. They are incels with a failed cotton ceiling plan.  How terrible, never have women dealt with emotionally abusive men that use suicide as blackmail to get what they want sexually.  Completely unheard of.Whatever shall we do. /sHow anyone takes these abusers seriously is beyond me, disgusting.We shall report them for threatening suicide!I've learned that the prospect of an involuntary 72 hour hold sorts out the attention grabbers.Yes, indeed.What's funny is that this post really hurt someone's feefees and they sent me a message calling me TERF and other misogynistic names.  They said they hoped I died in a fire.  LOL.  They save all of their abuse for women and homosexuals, but God forbid they do something about male violence against trans people.  They are ridiculous.Right. It's on the daily vagenda of mannocide. Although I did explain to my Evangelical cabal that as a Jew I also had international financial markets to manipulate, and the media to control, so, hey, there's only so many hours in the day.Its hard work, being active in so many secret societies. Can "The daily vagenda of mannocide" be my new flair? Please. I'm a fan.Yes! Have you read this?Now I did. What a great way to start the day, thank you X)Nice flair! I did notice that the writer spells manocide with one n....my mistake...Have a silver, sister.Being a Jewish radfem is so TAXING!! Heh. Seriously though how many conspiracies can I be involved in?INORITE? Especially around the holidays, cleaning the house, polishing the silver, getting the blood to make the matzahs, poisoning the wells. It's meshugganah!That's the type of delusion that gets one diagnosed as mentally ill.Sure, JanThe host seemed completely unmoved by the idea... he didnt even bother to feign concern, or ask the TIM to elaborate, he just looked bored. That was quite telling. So many people are willing to just humour these men and their wild claims, but dont really believe them.The host was happy to throw womens sports under the bus (together they made it sound like a thisneverhappens thing), but he did clam up when the TiM went on about organized groups of lesbians trying to convince men like him to commit suicide. Organized. Groups. Lol. Apparently leave us alone = please commit suicide.I say Bravo! Way to show your true colors! Way to peak a few more people!Notice that most people commenting either arent having it or are seriously questioning TRA ideas.Why do they want to have sex with women who are not attracted to them? There are quite a lot of women who are bisexual or straight who are happy to have sex with trans women. Don't they want loving relationships with people who see them as women? Why do they want women who don't fancy them and don't see them as women to have sex with them?Also sex is not actually a RIGHT. I mean where's my special treatment for being a middle aged woman who isn't pretty any more and whose formerly hot body has gone to seed? No men want to have sex with me any more. Why are they not being chastised and asked to question their body preferences and hotness fetishism and to consider whether or not they are TRULY heterosexual given their refusal to consider sleeping with ANYONE AT ALL who wants them to?Other than a male entitlement to women's bodies, I think being with a lesbian could also offer them the ultimate verification of their identity.   "Everyone else considers me a woman in my community now you MUST have sex with me.  I am a woman!"I'm sure there are women out there who identify as lesbian who might fall in love with a transwoman. But they're not going to find that woman on Tinder. And like all good love stories it would probably start out as being friends who actually like each other and stuff. Expecting random women to alter their genital preferences in lovers just on the off chance is irrational.So much of what they say is irrational and ridiculous. They apparently don't believe in sexual orientation. They seem to think everyone is secretly queer/pansexual.POWER.Refusing  to suck your girl dick is not the same as bullying you into killing yourselfWoman refuses to spread legs for man.Man accuses woman of hating him and threatens to top himself.News at 11.These people get more ridiculous and theatrical everyday.What I find interesting is how many transbians have absolutely shit awful sex lives. Like many people, they are convinced that most people are having more and better sex than them, and they're bitter. But as an outsider looking at their lives, it's not easy to find someone into radical body mods, and partnered people have a lot more sex than unpartnered people. They just think it's some kind of oppression when it happens to them.I was also trying to make my rapist kill himself by denying him access to my vagina and emotional labor. What a cis privileged (a word I see he is now very fond of online) bitch I am.Fuck every male bodied dick haver LARPing as a woman.DARVOOOOOOOOOOOOOO  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.To be fair, I've heard an awful lot of dog owners not neutering their dogs because they don't want to take away the animal's "manhood." (Never heard it the opposite way, though -- you can spay a female dog without it affecting her "womanhood.")(Never heard it the opposite way, though -- you can spay a female dog without it affecting her "womanhood.")Oh, plenty of crazies out there advocating for female dogs' right to "experience motherhood", no worries.Oh god those people who let their dogs die from preventable illnesses because they wanted their dog to experience motherhood one day...More like they desperately want puppies but are exactly the kind of people that shouldn't raise them. Because they'll let it happen accidentally, without any thought towards planning or health.I mean, we shouldnt be breeding dogs, not while we have so many shelters full of homeless pets. Its not an issue in other countries like it is in America.Are those people men? Because I'm pretty sure men personalise that issue way too much.My cat is a neutered tom and I get very annoyed when people call him an "it". He's a male cat, he acts quite differently to female cats, he just doesn't spray everywhere and has remained a bit more kitteny.I hate it when people call animals "it". They are a "he" or a "she"...not an it. I have a neutered male cat and I always use male pronouns for him...because his sex is male. I don't think male and female cats act any differently (aside from obvious reproductive roles) though. So I don't get what you mean about a neutered male cat acting differently to female cats.Yeah I know what you mean. Well I have found my male cats in general to be ... dare I say more possessive and clingy? Female cats seem more independent. Though I have certainly had very affectionate female cats too, just not AS affectionate and attached. Almost a bit dog-like.Ah I get it. Yeah, my cat does seem more "dog-like", because he does things like run to the door to greet me when I come home. Also, he is very vocal whenever he wants attention. He was a stray we rescued, and he basically chose me to adopt him because he would follow me everywhere! Literally, he would run toward me full sprint whenever he saw me. He also rolled on his back and behaved affectionately from the first week I knew him. I had never seen a stray cat that was that affectionate before.  Several other people I know who have male cats have mentioned that they are very needy and less independent/ aloof. But I have seen some female cats at the shelter I volunteer at who need attention as well. So I don't know if female cats are more independent or it's just each individual cat. I would add that cats all have their quirks too. Despite how affectionate and sweet-tempered my cat is, he won't jump in my lap and he doesn't like being held.Our male cats tend to be very active, playful, wrestle with each other quite a lot, sometimes try to wrestle with the females (with mixed results). The female cats are a bit more independent, and they'll play with us but not so much with each other or the boy cats. They're also top notch hunters whereas the males couldn't cat a spider if it walked into their mouths.But to be fair, some of this could be because the boys are shelter cats, hand-raised, while the girls were stray/feral cats. And maybe that's more the cause of their behavioral differences than the sex.I have a neutered male cat and I always use male pronouns for him...because his sex is male.Did you just assume your cat's gender?!? How positively TERFy of you.Men are ridiculous. I've even seen "testicle implants" for neutered male dogs -- although to be sure, at least they're neutering the thing. But do we really think dogs give a shit? I think not.And yes, male and female cats act quite differently. We have two males and two females. They are vastly different in behavior and interactions with each other and people.I've even seen "testicle implants" for neutered male dogs -- although to be sure, at least they're neutering the thing. But do we really think dogs give a shit? I think not.I seem to recall an old Kardashians episode in which Bruce begrudgingly takes his dog in to be neutered. Fearful his dog will miss his manhood, they discuss testicle implants with the vet. It's hilarious in hindsight.No, I knew a woman who told me not to cut off my dogs balls because he needed his manhood.   I really hate how dogs are associated with masculinity and cats with femininity. Us humans are so freaking weird.Interestingly though in the history of eunuchs, at certain times and places men would indeed castrate themselves so that they could become like women and enter female only priesthoods - such as certain, specific regions only, temples to Hekate and Cybele.  Modern Pagans like to pretend these eunuchs are an example of ancient transwomen.  Which I guess they are, cutting off bits to invade female spaces, nothing new here.Anyway, the idea that castration and becoming a eunuch makes one become female, or close enough to being female, is not a new idea.  Not surprising though, in many cultures we are naught but broken men and that is why we will never be good enough, never be human enough.  So it stands to reason that an actually broken man must then be a woman.  So it stands to reason that an actually broken man must then be a woman.Thank you Greek philosophers for that little nugget's persistence in the Western world. How wonderful that women are just misshapen men. /sI remember watching a documentary about the Arabic slave trade and the topic of Eunuchs came upso basically the Arabs had the concept of 3 Gender's Male,Female and Eunuchnow if you were castrated when you were an adult you would still be considered male,a man without testicles but still male cause to be proper eunuch you had to be castrated as a child before pubertyeven before Islam came to the Arabian peninsula the black eunuch was considered a holy thing a being neither male nor female and when Islam came and became rooted into dally life and gender segregation was made law the Eunuch was considered a being that could be a bridge between the two gendersthey would guard the harem clean and bathe women however also had an important role in as teachers for the children of the elite in societyThey literally love to cherry-pick and talk about hermaphroditic species like that has any relationship to human biology.The day they can grow themselves a new penis or vagina without medical intervention, I'll consider myself a convert to the cause. Until then, Enough already.Continuing on the castration theme, eunuchs were often castrated by their own parents. In the Byzantine empire, eunuchs could achieve fairly high status in court, so it wasn't unheard of for parents with a spare son to castrate him and send him to Constantinople. And there was the castrati craze in Italy two centuries ago where parents would castrate their sons, hoping they'd have careers as operatic singers.It goes to show that the trans child craze is not a new thing, and that, yes, parents will mutilate and sterilize their own children for a chance at fame and fortune. Some (I hope most) parents of "trans" children are going along with what they think will prevent their children from committing suicide, but plenty are simply pieces of shit.  Oh! That's right! The castrati are an interesting case in fairly recent history.It's hard to believe that people would mutilate their sons on the off chance that they might become successful opera singers, but then again the rationale for FGM is even more nebulous.Intriguing, great post.Eunuch is taboo because people mistakenly think castration means you cut the dick off too, and it freaks men out. So instead of learning the definition of a word, they make the word taboo.Certain cultures did remove the penis as well.Yes, in China they did.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.I know that there is a lot of frothing outrage about this from what I've read on mumsnet, but to be honest, I think that he's spouting nonsense to promote his business.The liklihood of this becoming a reality is slim to none. I just can't see how it could possibly get it past an ethics committee.I think that he's spouting nonsense to promote his business.Exactly.  The whole thing is BS from start to finish and he must surely know that.  The article is full of quotes he knows are ridiculous.  Here's just one from a sea of them:He said births would most likely be delivered by cesarean section in order to safeguard the child."Most likely"?! That is the ONLY way they could be delivered as TIMs don't have an actual vagina!!!  He certainly knows the pelvis and "plumbing" statements he made are also BS.  He should be struck off for promoting obvious medical misinformation.He makes himself look truly incompetent by those comments and promoting his clinic by being stupid will only backfire I hope.Reminds me of when I was like 5 and I saw that Arnold Schwarzenegger movie Junior.  The movie where the scientist impregnates himself. I spent the whole movie trying to figure out how he was going to give birth without a vaginaThat explains it! I couldnt understand how a surgeon could be as delusional as that. I know they have  a reputation for being arrogant psychopaths but STILL you kind of expect a surgeon to understand human anatomy.Cynical exploitation is the much less alarming explanation, in this context.Anyone planning on donor testes for TiFs who want the experience of impregnating a woman?  No?  Anyone? Dr?Nope.  Because what the TiM wants is more important and gets prioritized over the TiF.  Same story, different cover.I'd donate mine, idk what kind of point this is really supposed to be.TIMs dont want them from committed TIFs, doubtless the years of T would have affected the uterus badly.No, what the vultures in your movement want is for your female allies to perform the ultimate act of subjugation and maim themselves for you while also (in your eyes) making themselves the less feminine ones.  So that at last you can crow, look at me, I pass sooo well I can give birth!!!Oh but its okay, theres a TIM making empty anonymous promises to cut his balls off on Reddit!Uhh, it seems like this is all just your best guess? I know a lot of trans folks who would gladly accept a transplant from another trans person.I wouldn't ever want to receive an organ form an unwilling donor, and my balls are going one way or another, why on earth do you think I'd prefer they go into a medical waste bin if somebody else wants them?Anoyone in the medical field working on a procedure to make it happen?  Its all well and good that you would donate yours, but does nothing if the technology isn't there to actually use them for anything.We live in exciting times. It's probably already doable with our current level of medical technology. I'm going into a medical-aligned field, but sadly not surgery, otherwise I'd explore it myself.Please make sure to pay attention in medical ethics class then.  Theres quite a lot we "can" do, doesnt mean we should.For some reference look up embyronic gene editing.I don't see how organ donation is ethically questionable.Easy, heres a few questionshow do you determine who is at the top of the list?  There is no medical need for the procedure, so recipients wont be prioritized based on the failure of their existing organs like other transplants.deceased donors or living?  Each option has its own legal issues.  If the donor is deceased: would the donors relatives be able to claim any rights to offspring resulting from the donation?  Grandparents rights, sibling visitation, etc.  If living: do you limit it to one testicle in case the donor regrets giving both?  What if the living donor decides they want parental rights later on?should the recipient be required to tell the woman they are impregnating that it is another persons genetic material that will be creating a child with her egg?  If yes, how do you enforce that?  What are the repurcussions if the TiF doesnt inform the partner?Time spent on a waiting listBoth. The questions on reproductive rights are interesting, but I don't think they present insurmountable ethical quandries. The scenarios you present are all things that could be legislated for, and so, I'd say not actual ethical barriers to the procedure.Probably not? We have no current legal expectation that information about the genetic information you might pass on be disclosed, so I don't see that this would really present an issue.Your second points, while interesting, aren't actually ethical questions about whether a procedure could be carried out. They're interesting legal/ethical questions about potential future reproductive law. Medical ethics are concerned with the procedure and the recovery process, primarily. We don't often consider questions like 'what will the recipient of this organ do in the future'.For the third point: there is a more than reasonable expectation that the person you have intercourse with is the one the genetic material is coming from.  Now it would be up to the woman to decide how much she wants to know about that person before, but on its most basic level you have an idea based on the person in front of you. if you sleep with a black man you would expect to have a child with 50% of his dna.  Would be rather problematic if the kid is Asian, because the black man she thought she was sleeping with turned out to be a black TiM who had a testicular transplant from an Asian donor.This also leads to a different issue.  Transplants arent handled like sperm donations.  You cant look at a database and pick the testes of a man with the physical characteristics and background you prefer (like you can with sperm banks, where sperm is a product to be bought and sold).  I don't even know where to begin on how to handle that.We don't often consider questions like 'what will the recipient of this organ do in the future'.Absolutely you do.  Isnt that a part of one of the 4 pillars of medical ethics, under 'justice'?  What a patient will do with a transplant is always taken into consideration.  Organs are a limited resource that must be allocated with great care.  If two patients both need a heart transplant, one an active intravenous drug user who has shown an inability to maintain their schedule of medication and follow up care, the other a patient who has made the lifestyle changes required to be in the best physical health they can be with their condition, shows up to every appointment, etc. Who are they going to give the heart to?  Even if the drug user is in more desperate need of it they wont give it to him.  With the number of people who choose to detransition is it responsible to give such a limited resource to someone who may decide they just don't want it anymore?The reasonable expectation thing is a perfectly valid opinion, but it's not an ethics question, or a right, or anything really in that area.I agree on your drug user point, but looking at the good health of a potential recipient is not the same as looking at their general behavior. We don't prioritise 'good people', just 'healthy people'. Discussion about reproductive rights really has no bearing on the ethics of the organ donation, even if the organ in question is a reproductive one.The article states they have to have functioning ovaries to qualify, last I checked...roosters don't lay eggs.Unsurprisingly this guy isn't even a gyno, he's a plastic surgeon. The last time he probably saw a uterus was when he was still in med school.He's a fame hungry madman, reminds me of the Italian doctor who claimed to be able to "cultivate" a working trachea from a combination of a plastic prosthesis and stem cells. That dude brought some people to their early graves and this one is going to do the same if he's ever allowed to go forward with his insane ideas.He reminds me of that surgeon who wanted to do a head transplant, and who was fortunately stopped before he had a chance to murder his patient.The two could rent out a basement flat together, and do their experiments on homeless and prostituted people like some sort of horror movie...Male surgeon believes he deserves new business and a reputation for being cutting edge, maybe even a prize  Dr Inglefield, who appeared in ITV's Transformation Street, told the Mirror: 'This pioneering birth is extremely important for any trans female who would like to carry her own child.Its nice that he wants to help out TIFs whove had their fertility destroyed by SRS.Zing!And what, pray tell, did these stunning and brave men do to earn, to deserve, a uterus transplant?Why, they were brave enough to be born with a penis, don't you know.I'd like to have Queen Elizabeth's money transferred into my bank account. I deserve it.This beast doctor cannot even call biological women what they are = WOMEN. A DOCTOR using "cis-" anything is disgusting!And should uterus transplants ever become commonplace in my lifetime I am not going to be an organ donor. Maybe I'll walk into a freakin' volcano when I sense it is my time to die so I can be sure nobody harvests my uterus after I'm dead.A DOCTOR using "cis-" anything is disgusting!TFW you never took o-chem.TFW you believe the way this doctor used cis- has anything to do with organic chemistry even though you're dead wrong.And I deserve 7 inches more height but I'm not going to get that am I.HAHAHHAHAHAAAAAA, never gonna happen.I hope youre right!Male British surgeon wants  to  be world-famous.Where do they expect to get it? Dead women?This sounds like Ed Gein.Poor women.  We are already selling our bodies for surrogacy for money, so why not just rip the uterus right out for even more money?  Fun times.Christopher Inglefield is probably looking for more customers, er, patients. This is so many decades from even being ready to contemplate, unless a pathological non-functioning uterus and lifelong immunosuppression is the goal here.Why don't they just cure their addiction and get a life so no one has to fuck on camera at all? When discussing """""""""sex work"""""""""" focus on those who create demand, not supplyLgbt movement are your ordinary people with 0 feminist consciousness nowadays. It means their interests are male interestsYeah, LGBT movements have 0 feminist counsciousness yet on my country they are literally the ONLY feminist reference young people will be exposed to and many women (lesbian, straight and bi) identify with "queer feminism". This is why you can't have an intelligent conversation about prostitution with them, which drives me crazy.They won't even admit sex work is harmful, some of them want it to be respected  to the point it's taught to children as a legitimate professional goal. The denial is off the charts.Lgbt movement are your ordinary people with 0 feminist consciousness nowadaysLibfems support prostitution too though.yep, they're "sex positive". because having unwanted sexual experiences really makes you love sex. (logic?)Supporting sex work seems to be a mainstream take. I just saw an article about Meghan Markle bringing food to sex workers and writing messages on Bananas.How about work to end the need for sex work instead of writing on fruit? FFSthat should have been everyone's peak libfem momentI would've been in favor of this if the lunchboxes had also contained paperwork with a list of resources (free STD testing, safe abortion clinics, etc) and organizations to contact if you're trying to exit sex work safely.  But nah, they just wrote some affirmations on bananas instead lol.The actually did include paperwork! One25 is a really excellent charity committed to helping women out of prostitution.I've just looked into this, and the charity she was supporting was One25, which is an excellent local organisation in Bristol, I've volunteered with them before and they support women to leave prostitution, they don't endorse sex work at all. They are honestly a brilliant organisation and I'm glad they've got this exposure."writing messages on bananas"?  Is that some kind of sick joke?What I found interesting was she wrote stuff like you are beautiful and you are strong which is just all the usual empowerment catchphrases. And in this context they just seem so empty and vacuous. It doesnt help a prostituted women one bit to tell her shes beautiful and strongMy best guess is that they believe the lies the company and "porn stars" sell. It's one big happy family, "reputable" companies make sure to test for STDs, the "performers" just have so much fun in this casual, relaxed, friendly atmosphere where they get paid to have mind blowing sex! Porn is a product, of course they're going to keep selling the fantasy even after the cameras stop rolling.The real truth is men and women on drugs in order to just get through a single shoot, high rates of suicide, extremely violent and physically painful/damaging acts that weren't sold as such but once started they can't stop (so rape), underaged boys and girls coerced or trafficked, permanent damage especially for anyone who is subjected to brutal anal, STDs being spread and kept quiet about and the lack of being able to have normal romantic or sexual relationships. This is true for women, gay men, straight men and trans people. There's a lot of "lesbian" porn between straight women, gay men having "scenes" with women and straight men in "gay" scenes. Transwomen are most likely to be murdered by male "clients" during "sex work".It's incredibly harmful and dangerous and not empowering. It's misogynistic, often homophobic and racist and treats transwomen as fetishes. It's a fantasy for men at the cost of vulnerable people.Precisely, don't most trans women who are murdered "work" in prostitution? And then they're all legalization dafuq? I also listened to sabrinna vaslice, a ex-prostituted women, talk about how legal brothels in new zealand don't allow trans people. because even there it's considered like a fetish that turns other men off. could that be the next frontier of transactivists? equal access to brothels!It's the capitalism thing.  They say, since most of these trans people are in sex work, you're kicking them out of a job.  It never even occurs to them to go "What can we do to make it so that these people can support themselves without resorting to this extremely dangerous work?  What can we do to give them the resources to support themselves without risking their lives?  What can we do to make it so that, when some kid's parents decide to disown him, he doesn't have to start prostituting himself just to get by?"To liberals, money is power, and as long as these trans kids (because yes, most are teens or early 20s) slinging sex on the street are getting paid, they must be empowered, right?  These are the same people who would've probably defended locking children to factory machines during the industrial revolution LOL "Oh, so you want them to have no jOB?!?!?!?!?"It's actually really upsetting; almost every TIM who is murdered in America (probably true in other western countries too, though I can't comment on those) is a) a racial minority, b) poor, and c) prostituted. You'd think libfems and TRAs would want a Nordic model-like system in the states because of that, but instead they have to go on about how sex work is just work, when the amount of prostitutes murdered in this country yearly speaks otherwise.Queer people are disproportionately sex trafficked. So to stupid libfems that means the industry must be protected. They do the same racist thing when they constantly bring up "women of color" and the sex trade.are they?? why though?? young males who are trafficked are not "queer", they might not even be gay just be forced to have gay sex with buyers. I know about Brazillian trans women being trafficked to Portugal (with their knowledge technically, because they know they are coming to be in prostitution and have a debt, but they are murdered in Brazil like crazy in very violent ways). Thats about it though. Can you show me some numbers or reports? I'd like to learn moreA lot of children and teens in the sex trade were runaways. And in the US a huge percentage of children who are runaways or who were kicked out of their home are gay, lesbian, bisexual, and trans.I think I can speak for every lesbian out there when I say  wed rather not be a porn category.There is this idea that all sex is good sex. Saying otherwise would sound homophobic, so being anti porn/prostitution = being anti homosexual. This is basically dumbing down sex issues to the lowest level.As far as I can tell a lot of it is that they buy into the propaganda- I know I did for a long time (but Im a het man so take that into account if you want) They either dont know about the many stories/interviews/etc about ex-pornstars (including the stories about ones found dead) or they think the ones who hate it are a minority. They see cam girls on tumblr or whatever and think theyre producing it on their own, so it must be okay! I think celebrities like Cardi B, who when she first became famous was a stripper and did make it sound very glamorous (IMO) also muddle the message. We do have to remember its us against a whole industry that has a lot of power and thus control over what side of the story people hear, and of course thats the one where the abuse doesnt happen and all female sex workers are happy.Oh yes, sex positivity (work) is deeply pro-capitalism.One example of propaganda: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XtnWq7sD6uI. She makes it seem like the best job in the entire world - if only we hypocritical people would stop judging.All prostitution dynamics are inherently exploitive, regardless of the sex or gender identity of the participants.  Enthusiastic consent is replaced with a money value -money which the person selling sex needs to survive.  Rather than ask why people (vulnerable, destitute, often struggling with drug addictions, mental illness, and/or a history of childhood sexual abuse) choose to enter the industry, if they are not trafficked outright, the real question we must ask is why should anyone have a right to purchase sexual access to another persons body?  If two people wish to have consensual sex, then of course they should be allowed to do that! But prostitution is the opposite of that: its sex between one person who wants to have sex and one person who does NOT want to have sex. Money is used to make the sex happen anyways.Queer identity politics fall under the same neoliberal umbrella which supports  the notion of sex work as individual choice trumping all other analyses of policy/power/ethics/etc.   Because they see the determinant unit of societal relations as the individual (as opposed to groups of people with shared characteristics, aka class), they actively refuse to acknowledge the reality that women and other marginalized minorities are harmed by an industry which supports the rights of men to purchase sexual access to others bodies.  This also allows them to pretend that the amplified voices of the privileged few who claim to be happy hookers represent what everyone in the industry could/should aspire to be, even though the reality is that prostitution is inherently exploitive.Whats doubly horrifying about this neoliberal line of thinking is that it goes against the interests of the most vulnerable members of their own community!  Prostituted trans people of color have one of the lowest life expectancies in their community (early thirties) because of the high rates of murder by abusive and homophobic johns.  Instead of realizing that the best way to help end this is to end the selling of human bodies to sexually entitled men, the queer community demonstrates its selfish adherence to neoliberalism by arguing that the right to sell ones body should trump the right of vulnerable people to AVOID selling their body to survive.  age old question, are you oppressed if you don't think or know you're oppressed. All females are oppressed, a lot of us think the root of that oppression is biology, so there's no escape. Would keep at it who has the most to risk with sexual relations, males or females? It pretty much always comes down to females even with sterilization because youth also plays into female value, something a lot of young TIMs are going to find out themselves fairly soon, imagine there will then be a lot of transitioning."Queer" identity is dominated by gay males and gay males, like all other males are obsessed with easy access to sex.  Prostitution, gay or straight, means easy access to sex for males, they don't care that it is based on exploitation and abuse all that matters to them is getting sexual release at a relatively cheap price.I think we need to break it down finer than just "queer". What do we mean by "queer"? Because from where I sit, anyone at all, including straight people and just toying sociopaths have defined themselves as "queer".That might shed some light on the motivations.Because a lot of trans and femme gay.men are or have been sex workers?  I find that most exited sex workers I find on reddit end up being very ANTI full legalization of prostitution, especially those who have actually worked in markets where it is fully legalized.  I'm all for supporting sex workers, keeping them safe and giving them the tools they need to stay that way, but I'll never be in favor of supporting the sex INDUSTRY.  Thats why Im pro Nordic model - legalize selling sex,  criminalize buying it.Yes. I'm fully pro sex WORKER. They need protections and rights. But suggesting it's a totes great job option that all women should be thrilled to enter is... not what I thought supporting sex workers was meant to be all about.Because as surprisingly large proportion of them have active sex addictions or other paraphilias.Because as surprisingly large proportion of them have active sex addictions or other paraphilias.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.  I do really appreciate projects of this kind (shout-out also to the Beautiful Cervix Project) because I remember all too well spending my time as a pre-teen--more than a decade before I'd ever have any sexual interest--looking at porn to figure out what my vagina was supposed to look like. I wish there had been more resources like this online at the time. What I saw in porn made me think that there was something wrong with me for many years.The photographer is also a little radfemmy:Then there was a description in a health leaflet of the vagina as a front hole  language she felt was inaccurate and harmful.On the other hand, including a TiM seems unnecessary, but I do appreciate that it came with this NB:Lets be up front about this: I dont have a vagina. I would describe mine as a neo-vagina. Im not a real woman. Id have loved to have been one, but that didnt happen for me and I have to make do. I cant claim womanhood. I have a different body to women, I have different biology, different needs, I grew up differently. I dont think it should be something to feel embarrassed or shamed about. Im a transwoman, and thats fine by me.I didnt have a girlhood, I wasnt socialised as a girl. I have some similar experiences to other women. I deal with everyday, casual sexism now. The world can be a challenging place for a woman, but Im certainly far more comfortable in it now, as a transwoman, and can contribute more than I could as a man.If only all TiMs could be as secure in being transgendered males.Facts can be downright refreshing. It's really this simple.Then there was a description in a health leaflet of the vagina as a front hole  language she felt was inaccurate and harmful.This doesnt even make sense. It sounds like it was thought up by some guy who thinks women pee out of our vaginas.It shows that they only view womens bodies in terms of penetrability by a penisYes, front hole and back hole are about places to penetrate.  Its extremely demeaningAnd it's not even the front hole, it's the middle one. The front hole is the urethra.Ah but its the front hole that can be fucked, don't you know that's all that matters? Who cares about a hole that can't be penetrated? I thought the front hole thing was something TIFs used to avoid having to think of it as a vulva/vagina due to dysphoria. They'd rather it was a "hole" for gay fucking than feminine, floral-looking, lady genitalia. I understand that (well I don't understand but I accept it - I don't have dysphoria).I would honestly go back to being an ally (not stop being a radfem) if TRA's spoke this way.Yup.Me too.  And it seems to me like they used to so I don't know what happened.Internet porn happened, along with the backlash against second-wave feminism and gay acceptance. (Queer Theory is the theory, trans activism and liberal feminism is the practice).YepShe included a TIF in the penis book, so I guess it's only fair to 8nclude a TIM in this one, I do like that she chose one who is not a reality denier.While I guess it's a step in the right direction that a man understands that his purchased elective surgical whatever isn't actually the same as female vulvas and vaginas, why is it even included?There's a site where there are pictures of real breasts on real women -- are there now going to be pictures of purchased implants there which are attached to males to confuse people, too?I don't like the inclusion of a man in this either.  It's a step in the wrong direction - then they'll be demanding, not all fake vaginas look the same, you need to be inclusive and have more men!!!FFS, the journalist asks her if it's 'right' to call her project about vulvas 'womanhood' since "it implies that sex equals gender." What does this even mean? How is it conflating sex and gender to say that women have vulvas?Let's take a look at the Guardian's report of her last project "manhood' where 100 men have their penis photographed. Well, the Guardian has absolutely no problem saying '100 men bare all' in the headline- isn't this implying that sex equals gender? So let's see if the journalist asks her a similarly woke question -after all, it's just as transphobic to imply that men have penises, right? Haha of course they don't! It's perfectly fine for her to call the dick pic project 'manhood' but she must be scolded for calling the vulva project 'womanhood'. The inconsistency is astounding and very revealing.That made me so angry. And the smugness of it too! Ugh.  In the past month I've been saddened to realize a new harm of pervasive pornography that's apparently really prevalent.I've been an anti-pornography activist since the late 80s and have been horrified to see it morph, quite along the lines MacKinnon/Dworkin predicted.  But, I also grew up at a time in the 70s and 80s where yes, we were internalizing ridiculous beauty standards (those of us who were straight and addicted to male approval), but we were not micro-analyzing our vulvae for hairlessness, size, color, or anything other than an obsession with odor/cleanliness.This is clearly a new phenomenon that is an escalation of the increased self-scrutiny with the advent of modern mass photography in general. Most naked women in the 1890s figured straight men would be pretty happy to be with a naked woman. There were racist and ageist standards to be sure, but generally they weren't busy comparing themselves to standards of thigh size, ankle size, hair, weight, waist circumference, breast size, nipple color, and so on and so on. That rapidly changed over the next century with the advent of mass advertising.I remember when a close friend's husband freaked her out in the 1990s because he asked her to shave "down there." She was a former beauty queen, still conventionally beautiful, and pursued like mad and the thought of changing her natural body parts for him was outrageous to her, and to all of her friends. We thought he was perverted and was into children or something (and it turned out he was "addicted" to phone sex and went to SAA). They ended up divorced.We believed in being tidy for a bikini. And of course, childbirth does all sorts of things to you down there that matter in terms of one's own personal comfort.But the idea of analyzing my vulva to see if it fits some photographic image? I don't even know what that image would be. Most men born before 1970 don't seem to be obsessed with that either, and the only men I knew who were, were severe pornography addicts.Healthy straight men are quite happy to enjoy the vulva of the woman they're dating/in love with/married and, IMO, have never wasted ANY time analyzing it (for fear they'll lose the opportunity).I cannot believe the amount of comments I've read here and elsewhere by young women who've grown up thinking something is wrong with their vulvae.I honestly worry that, as porn continues its current horrific transgression-chasing, medicalized invasive porn with cameras attached to specula or endoscopies will somehow start photo galleries of pornified cervixes, vocal cord flaps, colons, livers, and God knows what. Where does this self-evaluation end?If your vulva feels comfortable and good to you, it's a beautiful vulva, and any dude who'd reject you because you're not waxed and surgically changed somehow is doing you a favor by getting the hell out of your life before you waste another precious moment on him.This is just so, so sad.Yup, most men of that generation are quite happy with a hairy, musky, labia-dangling puss. There were never demands to shave or wax or complaints about not looking like an airbrushed image.I feel sorry for young people of both sexes today to be quite honest.Yep. Ditto. I don't have sons, but it breaks my heart that their sexualities have been so damaged by early exposure to pornography. That doesn't excuse their behavior as adults, but I realize that normal testosterone-ridden pubescent male experience is highly plastic and vulnerable, and if they're exposed to a massive "fast-orgasm" industry like transgressive, violent pornography at an impressionable age, it's like giving cigarettes (or heroin) to high-need children. Of COURSE they're going to get conditioned to it.We know the harms to women, although (per above) I'm surprised at so much labia self-criticism. I guess I'm too self-impressed, but I've never had any issues with male rejection and I still don't. Maybe those of us over 40 are more "French"--we just assume straight men will be happy with the "real thing" and have the confidence to question the sanity of any guy who isn't. There is a grounding with that, I guess.Honestly--why are labia any more critiqued than throats, now that there are open "throat shots?" Are teenaged girls going to criticize the color and size of their pharanxes? The interior of their cheeks?How many body parts are going to be carved and served up as commodities subject to policing and surgical improvement? It's sickening.You deserve gold for this comment, and I weren't so broke I'd give it to you myself.Thanks. And OT, but I grew up on Calabash! An excuse for endless tartar sauce and hushpuppies. :-)Ha ha ha, it comes from my nickname (which I will disclose used to be "Carmelita Calabacita"). It later was shortened to "Calabacita" (little pumpkin, in Spanish). This was a nickname from a boyfriend, and I could never tell whether my family, when they adopted it, were teasing me about being sensitive, about being sweet, or making fun of me (since they often made me out to be the opposite).Since growing up, I have decided that I am proud to be both sweet-natured and sensitive AND temperamental, outspoken, and opinionated. Therefore, I decided on "Unabashed Calabash."In my neck of the woods, we eat "calabacitas," which is a dish of yellow squash with melted cheese, corn, red peppers, and spices, and is delicious. I have eaten squash and pumpkins in many dishes, but never with tartar sauce or hush puppies (I'll have to make this soon)! What variety of calabash (squash, gourd or pumpkin) are you referring to when you say "calabash," if I might ask? I'm really curious!Ha! We're from such different backgrounds yet the term obviously has some common lineage."Calabash" is a way of preparing seafood that originated in Calabash, NC and extended throughout the Coastal South. It usually entails breading and frying shrimp, fish, and oysters, and serving it with hushpuppies, cornbread, cole slaw, and lots of cocktail and tartar sauce (and sweet iced tea).It bumps against the whole "Eastern Barbecue" phenomenon with the slaw and hushpuppies, but I'd say the biggest difference is deep fried baby shrimp instead of 'Cue.There were Calabash buffets where people could easily consume 10,000 calories at one sitting.....a very eastern NC, northern SC phenomena.But I'm guessing the name of the town must have related to the Spanish term (or perhaps yellow squash, which grows like weeds in the fertile soil there). I should look it up!While I agree with you completely, were also in a world where girls and younger women are exposed to images of surgically-altered, ideal vulvas. Just like when I first saw a cervix way back when, the normal, healthy morphology of the vulva is unknown to many young women. I never thought to worry about the appearance of my vulva, but the young ones DO.Same thing goes for the rest of our bodies. We need to be ok with normal bodies that dont look like porn bodies.Oh, I must not have been emphatic enough in the beginning--I see this absolutely as a consequence of exposure to Internet-based pornography.My point is that most women of my generation weren't exposed to any pornography other than Playboy, and then only when it was stashed in a Dad's or boyfriend's bathroom, and we certainly weren't exposed to the horrid gonzo pornography available today.This is really a post 2000 and maybe post-2010 phenomenon. Young girls in particular weren't exposed to images like this until pornography was on iPhones accessible on school buses and playgrounds. It's tragic.Yes were on the same page. I can remember finding my dads Playboy magazine, and...nothing was shocking. I had friends whose parents walked around the house naked, I shared a bathtub with my brother (hey it was the late 60s and early 70s) so a magazine showing naked women just didnt seem like a big deal to my pre-teen mind. I do, now, know it was still abuse of women.I hear about, but havent seen nor do I ever want to, the stuff that is porn now and yes, now I am shocked. Call me an old fuddy-duddy, fine. Kids, violence, and so on...this shit sure did escalate. And thats gonna take a toll on young minds.That person is awesome. Thank you for being real and standing up for women.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Text:Elizabeth BurdenFebruary 6 2019, 12:01am, The TimesFemale-only spaces must be given greater protectionImage Caption: Katie Dolatowski, a trans woman, admitted sexually assaulting a 12-year-old girl at Kirkcaldy sheriff court (ALAMY)Campaigners have called for greater protection of female-only spaces after a trans woman avoided prison for sexually assaulting a ten-year-old girl in a supermarket toilet.Katie Dolatowski, 18, forced the girl into a toilet last March , ordered her to remove her trousers and told her there was a man outside who would kill her mother. The girl managed to escape.Dolatowski admitted sexual assault at Kirkcaldy sheriff court last week and was given a community sentence and tagging order, meaning she is not allowed contact with children. However, she was released from Polmont Young Offenders Institution into supported accommodation.Dolatowski had also tried to film a 12-year-old in another supermarket toilet in Dunfermline last February by holding her phone over the cubicle partition.A spokeswoman for Women and Girls in Scotland, a feminist campaign group, said the case highlighted the importance of single-sex spaces."Over 90 per cent of sexual crimes are committed by males, she said. It is extremely concerning that in this climate many female-only spaces can be accessed by males if they simply state that they are transgender."This horrific sexual assault of a child is a reminder that sexual predators will take advantage of any access they can get and we should be doing all we can to minimise the risk of such assaults.The ten-year-olds mother told The Courier Dolatowski went [to the toilets] specifically to attack a child. I dont have any confidence that he will not do something equally as bad or worse.It comes after 18-year-old Christopher Daniel was granted an absolute discharge last month after he was found guilty of sexual assaulting a six-year-old girl, meaning he received no punishment and will not be registered as a sex offender.A sheriff ruled that he had acted out of inappropriate curiosity and that a conviction would harm his career prospects.Inappropriate curiosity, what the fuck is that understatement? A conviction would harm his career prospects? Maybe he shouldn't be assaulting and perving on CHILDREN. I keep seeing this come up, the pedophile dentist student molested a 6 year old girl & got off with 0 consequences and the sheriff involved gave the same excuse- a sentence would "damage his future". Even wrote the pedo a letter of recommendation to the judge. Why does the future of these perverts factor into sentencing their crimes AT ALL? Can someone explain this to me? Is Dolatowski rich or has some connection to the local sheriff like the dentist pedo did? I'm flabbergasted and outraged. I understand prioritizing rehabilitation over revenge but this crosses the line into injusticeWhat if he wants a career as a teacher, pediatrician, school bus driver, or day care worker? It seems like those career prospects should be off limits.Sexual assault is "inappropriate curiosity"... what the fuck.When I was six, a classmate that I didn't like kissed me. I was grossed out and had issues with it for a while. I tried talking to a therapist about it. She said he was "experimenting." I never brought it up again, because her comment made me feel like I was a thing for him to use.A crazy man with long hair - kids cant be tricked with this bullshit.What the fuck is wrong with the British justice system when these child rapists get no prison time?Parents, start leaning on the police to charge these assholes and prosecutors to never dismiss the charges.  "Sex offender" status should follow them everywhere.We will never have "safe female-only spaces" until that is done.Its insane.  Sierra Levine announced this week life prison sentences for child rapists.  Now saying and doing are two different things, but at least they are saying.Here's an earlier report with more detail.A Fife teenager who filmed a 12-year-old girl on the toilet at a supermarket before sexually assaulting another youngster has been placed on the sex offenders register.The 17-year-old, who cannot be identified for legal reasons, appeared at Kirkcaldy Sheriff Court and admitted voyeurism and sexual assault charges.The teenager followed a young girl into the toilets at the Halbeath Asda store in Dunfermline on February 8 this year and filmed her on a mobile phone.Depute fiscal Sarah Lumsden told the court the accused had been to the toilets with a carer and was walking towards the exit when the young child walked past.Miss Lumsden said: The accused (said their) mobile phone was still in the toilets and returned to them, alone.The young girl was in a cubicle and was sitting with her leggings and pants down when she saw a hand holding a mobile phone over the partition wall.The girl shouted and the person rushed out of the adjacent cubicle.The young girl then left the toilets and was described as looking shocked. The matter was reported to the police who retrieved in-store CCTV footage from the time of the incident.Investigators were able to identify the teenager, whose accommodation in Kirkcaldy was searched.A 12-second video clip of the girl on the toilet, followed by footage of the teenager running away, were recovered when an iPad and a mobile phone were seized.A second incident took place at the Morrisons store in Kirkcaldy on March 4.The court was told a 10-year-old girl had been inside the toilets while her father waited outside.Miss Lumsden said: The complainers dad then heard his daughter screaming and came running out of the bathroom, looking as if she was running away from someone.She explained that a crazy man with long hair was in the bathroom and had grabbed her face and pushed her into a cubicle, before demanding she take her trousers off.She said the person had said they would stab her mum. She was upset and inconsolable.Police officers attended and found the cubicle locked inside the female toilets.A male voice was heard coming from inside, saying: Ive been silly. I bumped into her. Ive been silly.The teenager was taken to Kirkcaldy police station and charged.Defence solicitor Andrew Grieve said his client had been in the social care system from the age of three and had been actively engaging with mental health services.Sheriff James Williamson placed the teenager on the sex offenders register and deferred sentencing for background reports.https://www.thecourier.co.uk/fp/news/local/fife/702003/fife-teen-on-sex-offenders-register-after-supermarket-child-attacks/So he attacks two little girls in public. Two. In public. Caught both times. But no punishment whatsoever.I like how they don't even try to gender this sick twisted person.It's very clever, I noticed it too.So far this disgusting, corrupt society gives ZERO protection to spaces for women and girls, actually it's less than zero because it actively encourages men to cosplay as women just so they can enter Women/girl only spaces and attack them and then when those same male perverts are put in jail or convicted they are ushered into womens prisons.The thing is. There is nothing stopping them doing it now, whether they are trans, pretend to be trans, or are just blokes looking like blokes. They can do it. They don't have to be trans to do it.HOWEVER at the moment in most places, if someone looks wrong in the bathrooms you can at least call them out on it. The danger of self-ID is that the predator can then turn around and sue you for transphobia, deflecting attention from any actions they were planning on taking.The definitely should, but will they?Add it to the list.https://outofmypantiesnow.wordpress.com/2013/10/28/when-is-90-not-substantially-all/http://nounequalrights.com/information/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/The-Threat-to-Women-and-Girls-Illustrated-1.pdfhttps://theysaythisneverhappens.wordpress.com/http://thenewbacklash.blogspot.com/p/9-documented-harms-to-women-and-girls.html  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.I've seen people deadass say it's because black people are oppressed and have been so historically, so white people have no right to say they understand that or identify with it.No, they don't see the ironyRight...I keep forgetting about our female privilege...fortunately, every time a TiM gets cat-called, an angel earns xer wings. /s (as if /s is needed here!)If you REALLY want to get the party started, tell them this:Transracialism makes more sense than transgenderism. Race and ethnicity actually are a spectrum, culture is absolutely a spectrum, and it's not even new. People have been dying hair, applying makeup, getting nose jobs, and such, to look like other ethnicities for millennia. If two ethnic groups are close to each other long enough, they start mixing, if not right away. Then you produce racially mixed children. In early colonial days there were white indentured servants who ran away and assimilated into local Native American tribes. Tartars in Poland do not view themselves as Asian. Uyghurs do not view themselves as Chinese. It is also entirely possible to be of an ethnic group and not know about it, either because of adoption, family secrecy, or something else. I have a friend who is Arab but he's so American apple pie that he just views himself as a white guy and doesn't have any connection to his culture at all. And he looks like Your Basic White Guy.Transracialism is also more doable and safer than transgenderism. Korean plastic surgery usually turns out pretty well, and they don't look like scary mutants the way many TIMs do. Colored contacts are removable. Hair dyes and wigs are fairly well made nowadays and affordable. Skin color currently isn't safe to alter, but that's coming down the pipes of the beauty industry, I'm sure. Makeup can still alter it a bit, though.And all this bullshit is already in place! Just step into any Sephora. Any salon. Any plastic surgeon's office. We just don't call it transracialism. We don't demand insurance or public health services cover it. And we recognize the problems with it. Transgender people don't.If you survive being tarred and feathered for this, I think it will dawn on some people that if transracialism is a crock, then so is transgenderism. No one will initially admit it, but in my humble opinion, everything I just wrote is amazeballz-drop-the-mike true.I love your take on transracialism.The trouble is also the term though, because transracial originally meant "adopted into different race", eg. Korean kids adopted by white Americans and raised as white Americans but subject to racism due to their Asian appearance, and a sense of being neither one thing nor the other.Well, I meant more in the universal term all over the planet throughout history, and it still applies.  People having trouble with identity, that is.I really dont know, youd have to ask them. Whenever Ive tried asking or seen anyone ask, the response is just that its a deeply insulting question and you should be ashamed for even considering asking it.The attitude seems to just be that trans people feel their gender deep in their heart, and we cant question them, except that point of view leaves no room for respecting the feelings of actual women on what it means to be a woman, so... * shrug *Heck, transracialism is less of a stretch than transgenderism.  As a white man, Im biologically closer to a black man than a white woman.The arguments I've seen are all so nonsensical I can't even recall them. One difference is that on the side of the affected people anti-racism activists are more politicized and organized than women and calling out the bullshit - and they have more men's voices that will get taken seriously among them. Another factor, I think, is that for a lot of the liberal left groups racism is something they can pretend to care about because it seems removed enough from their lives (the people live in other countries or at least other parts of the town and their kids will go to different schools), whereas with the discrimination of women that isn't so easy since women are everywhere. So they use the subject of racism to receive performative rage brownie points that help them advance in their liberal circles without actually risking anything.Very interesting, thank you!Because while both PoC and women are historically subjugated classes, women make up 50% of the population and our subjugation is seen as normal.PoC are both men and women, so of course the concept of being transracial will be shut down immediately, as it is both offensive and harmful to that group.Trangenderism isn't really harmful to men at large, so there really won't be that much of a pushback.And what about transyouth? If I went and spent $50k on plastic surgery, hair dye, etc... to look ten years younger, what would they say at the DMV when I showed up and demanded to have ten years shaved off my official age?When AARP started sending me promotional materials, I could claim that they were trying to drive me to suicide by mis-aging me. I could launch a twitter campaign against them.If the bank won't give me $240,000 right now I will sue them for not recognzing me as a transmillionaireIs that a real thing? I had no idea...I made it up, but it seemed to me an appropriate analogy. I mean, like they say, "You're only as old as you feel," right?So, if I feel like I'm 25 and want to date other 25 year-olds, what business do they have rejecting me? How dare they claim I'm not really 25?That's WONDERFUL! "Suicide by mis-aging." Love it!Love this!Try r/nostupidquestionsThanks for the advice, I asked my question there, hopefully I'll get some real answers I did a search of that sub for the term transracial. Its been discussed a few times.The responses are..... interesting. One common argument appears to be that there is such a huge biological difference between male and female, while a lot of races are similar, that it increases the likelihood the of being born in the wrong body.Which clearly makes no actual sense.By that logic trans-speciesism is the most legit oppression of allThat's an interesting conclusion. Seems to me that the much larger difference between the sexes than race shows that transgender is even more absurd than transracial. "Increases the likelihood of being born in the wrong body"...wut, that's loaded and out of nowhere. You have to then assume that our souls are separate from bodies and are male or female already, in the ether preexisting at all, with a set of preferences for the life you will live, and that there is a process for getting a body, that can go wrong. And so with transracialism, you just get closer to the mark? They are still validating transracialism that way.  In my eyes transracial would even make more sense than transgender. I don't believe in "human races" anyway.The physical biological difference between men and women is clearer defined than between "races".However, in the end "transracial"  only seems to be about people wanting to change their skincolour because they suffer from mental illness. Not too different from the transgender community...On the other hand, white women are getting large lips and butts created that seldom if ever occur naturally on white people... but do seem to be quite typical of black women. And being applauded for that "sexy look" where non-white women are not.I've been trying to understand why feeling like the opposite sex and feeling like another ethnicity is not comparable according to TRAs, or even non-TRAs, but I cannot find an answer anywhere.My gut-level response is that it's because black people have zero tolerance for it. They will not allow that door to be opened.Yes its a united front. Unlike women, we have male-pleasing handmaidens among us.With Judith Butler leading the way.Its a pretty thin theory when you have only one theorist. Im gonna downgrade that to hypothesis status right now.A feminist philosopher wrote a great article about this for Signs--it was accepted through peer review--and then the circular firing squad of pseudo feminists and queer/po-mo/academic irrelevants led a yuuuuuuuuge outrage mob to get the article retroactively rejected, which is unheard of in academia (with a handful of historic exceptions).It was insane. I don't know what happened to the poor woman. It was a very reasonable, well-argued argument, and in any case, the remedy if you're outraged by someone examining this question is to write letters to the editor or submit your own rebuttal.But this was a 21st century witch-hunt, with women as active as men in trying to prove their purity and "burn the witch."Anyway, thanks for the post.They did this because they have no argument that makes sense, I am sure.They cant even claim its hate speech, because then it could be claimed that a trans racial person also experiences hate speech. In fact, I cant think of an argument that wouldnt turn into whats good for the goose.. so they resort to screaming.When I was somewhat deep in trans activism, I countered people who brought this up with brainsex arguments. You can have a male or female brain, but not a black or white or asian brain. I found out fairly quickly that this apparently doesn't fly with TRAs anymore because I started getting shit for being a "medicalist", since brainsex implies that being trans is more than just a feeling and doesn't really explain non-binary and agender people.After researching and learning how flimsy the whole concept of brainsex is, I went into something of an ideological crisis because I just could not find or come up with a coherent argument for why being transgender is valid but being transracial is nonsense.I still see them using the brain sex bullshit all the time though. It infuriates me because men have used the ladybrain crap to keep women out of almost every field. And now these "progressives" are using the same bullshit to "support" their flimsy transgender ideology.I should have worded my post better, I didn't mean to imply all TRAs avoid brainsex. The college activist group I was a part of just happened to be staunchly against it. You're definitely right that the majority still use it which is why I was taken aback somewhat when called out for using it.It kinda exists in a lot of african and caribbean countries, where being light skinned is "better" because of racism and internalized racism and white aesthetic canons. Sure it's not really a full "racial transition", but it's clearly more dangereous, people bleach their skin and can have cancer because of it.It can't be compare because it's not the same, the reasons of "transitionning" are not the same and it's based on differents countries and societies.you're conflating colorism with the concept of transracialism thoughThis also happens in the US. I recently overheard some of my black female students discussing a guy one of them liked, and the other two were concerned because hes so dark - ugh!I don't think there is an answer. Back when I still a trans ally/handmaiden, I sure tried hard to come up with one, which ended with me realizing that 'transracial' makes more sense than 'transgender,' although neither makes sense.Oppression Olympics.Oppressics.Bleep-bloop, I'm a bot. This portmanteau  was created from the phrase 'Oppression Olympics.'. To learn more about me, check out this FAQ.Good botBecause the goal of the current political zeitgeist is very specific: to eradicate racial collectivism and de-masculanize males, starting with caucasians.So transgenderism works because it facilitates a global culture of "gay disco party." The more people are messing up their gender and engaging in righteous hedonism, the less they are asking why we're killing people in the middle east and engaging in regime changes every 5 years (along with all the other nightmares of our political systems).Transracialism does not work because if transracial were afforded oppressed class status, you could in theory have capable males of a racial group that has been deemed evil (you know which group I mean), who were exempt from the ongoing demonization that generates so much political influence and power (and gimmicky marketing).More importantly however, transracialism facilitates definition between races, which in itself is a problem as the goal of these oligarchs is to eradicate all racial identity entirely, which is why racemixing is so heavily pushed everywhere.You guys are all too obsessed with "women are victims" dialogues. Men aren't your enemy. The enemy is multinational corporations, global finance, media conglomerates, elite ideologues in academia, and all the bought and paid for politicians in government. They are largely headed by dynastic families and seek to eradicate all diversity, all gender conformity, and essentially facilitate a world of mixed race identity-less consumer hedonists, too wrapped up in the global gay disco to notice their own enslavement.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.I think its considered hateful to remind trans people of their biological sex because they want to silence any dissent. Dissent ruins their fantasies about themselves.  I'm not on the autism spectrum and you said it all more eloquently than i think i ever have, so hopefully that can give you confidence in the future if you ever need it.You are presenting a factual argument, they are presenting an emotion/opinion based argument.  Anything can be viewed as hateful, because its determined by the person receiving it.  Legally its different, a hate crime is not simply based on the opinion of the victim, but socially that's the way it works.So if your factual position goes against their emotion based opinion the conversation never really gets off the ground.  You're asking the price of an apple, they're responding with a description of how an orange tastes.  Sure, you're both talking about fruit, but one has nothing to do with the other.it hurts their feefees and kills their bonersI think it's considered rude because you are disrupting their form of religion. E.g. if you went up to a religious person and told them their beliefs were dumb, this is rude.(However, it is also rude for religious people to push their beliefs on other people, which is what is happening at the moment, and also troubling that tra movement is trying to write their religion into laws that affect others E.g. if a religious person harrasses me about converting to their religion, then i feel that if I snap and tell them that their beliefs are dumb and their god is a fiction, they should expect that and my rudeness comes from their rudeness)In addition, agp males don't want you to point out they are male as it intrudes on their sexual fantasy.You're allowed to believe in a god. You're allowed to believe unicorns live in your shoes for all I care. But the day you start telling me how to wear my shoes so I don't upset the unicorns, I have a problem with you. The day you start involving the unicorns in making decisions for this country, I have a BIG problem with youOne of my all time favorite quotes.  And perfectly encompasses my feelings about the trans movement, just replace "believe in a god" with "believe you are whatever sex you want".Some lame TRA argument I heard recently was a complaint that theyd get bored just eating steak every day, so why cant they have chicken? (As if their actual position is that reasonable). My response: You can have chicken. You can fish and tofu, even. What you cant do is show me a piece of tofu and demand I call it steak. Nor demand the government to change all the food labels.And the government won't allow you to say tofu is steak (if you're the one selling it).  That's why we have dumb words like "tofurkey" now.If they could provide that same protection to the words "man" and "woman" that'd be great.Yes exactly. Love this. It's only when you encroach on my beliefs that I begin to remotely care.I love that!TRA ideology is like plate spinning, you have to keep spinning the plates or the whole thing falls in a heap and shatters.It seems like you believe gender assignment is derived from biology. Thats the premise of your whole post, but its untrue. Gender assignment is about genitals, not biology, and thats why its a practice that came about before our understanding of chromosomes. Our current understanding of chromosomes doesnt actually coincide at all scientifically with our cultural practice.Because the loudest voices among these people have identity disorders, personality disorders. Exposing the fiction and the mask they're wearing is the most intolerable thing to them. And most stable, emotionally normal people are taken in by it because they just gosh-darned can't believe that some people have malevolent and narcissistic morals.Because the male-run trans agenda wants it that way.Transgenderism really is a mental condition.I think it is unnecessary.  In most cases yeah, I don't need to talk about medical stuff with people. I don't understand why some people react extremely negatively to statements like this though. It's not hateful to ask somebody to make their own word for their own group that has their own issues.  gender as assigned at birthPeople have a sex assignment at birth, not a gender assignment.What you are experiencing is most likely people who are use to others being purposefully hurtful and disrespectful when they say things like that, and just assume that is your intention as well.I suppose that is the case. I'm sad that some people are so unkind to trans people that there is such a negative response. I don't think it's right to hurt trans people's feelings just because people are really heated about gender politics. Respectful communication is very important to me.I'm sad that some people are so unkind to trans people that there is such a negative response.A lot of them have caused such negative responses to exist in the first place. As a lesbian and a woman I just barely have my own spaces online where I am not attacked by transpeople, despite never having done anything TO them to warrant such hostility and attempt at erasure. I recognize your handle so I know you have been on this sub for quite a bit now, every day there are multiple posts here, some of them news articles, showing how poorly transpeople as a whole think of women, and many of them are enraged at the fact that lesbians, who by nature are not into penis, will not take theirs. I don't know how you manage to ignore all of those things and then think it is sad that transpeople cannot take their own medicine from people they repeatedly have attacked with verbal abuse and sometimes physical abuse.Yeah, I'm with you here. It's very hurtful for trans people to refuse to acknowledge sexual orientation; it's insulting and hurtful for TiMs to call themselves lesbians and steal all the language associated with that, and it's deeply wrong for them to pursue lesbians romantically -- but no one seems to give a hoot about that. Why is the concern for hurt only in one direction, I wonder?Also, for purposes of this discussion, I think there's a difference between saying, generically, transmen are female, for example, and saying to someone's face, 'you're not a man'. I thought the OP's question was geared more toward general discussion, and I think it's absolutely necessary to be able to speak truth in that way.    Have you read my post in r/agender about Autism and gender? I think a good number of trans people are legitimately under the sincere belief that biological sex is changeable.Edit: apparently it is arrogant now to suggest a sub to someone?Get over yourself I don't follow you around to other subs, my time is more important to me than that.I'm dubious about that.  I think at some level every TIM and TIF knows that they are at best a mediocre mimicry of the opposite sex.  The trans subs are full of threads angstying about this.Yeah me too, I only started disliking the trans community after seeing how delusional, aggressive, and entitled the majority of them were. The hate they receive from lesbians is a result of their own actions.I'm curious: why do you suppose that most people who believe it is important to acknowledge material facts (especially when not to do so may put others in jeopardy; for example the increasing number of girls and women being assaulted by trans-identified men in women's private spaces) are being purposefully hurtful and disrespectful?  I don't think that they are being purposefully hurtful. I think there's some miscommunication going on because things are a bit heated.  People have a sex assignment at birth, not a gender assignment.Actually I would say people have their sex observed at birth, or increasingly commonly, observed at some earlier stage via genetic testing or ultrasounds.Assignment has the connotation of some sort of judgment process going on when for at least 99.98% of infants their sex is obvious from a visual inspection.I'd rather neitherBut the captions are lolI used to be one of those "reclaim bitch" women.  Until I read a quote from someone, somewhere, it went something like,Bitch: The last word many women will hear before some man kills them.So yeah, I would rather neither as well.The one saying it has a history of being used against "us" is so funny though.  Us?  Really mate? Really?The liberal "reclaim" crap doesn't really make any sense. How can they "reclaim" something that was made up by their oppressor? It was men and a patriarchal misogynistic society that came up with derogatory words like "bitch" for women. I feel the same way about derogatory racist and homophobic words as well. Who came up with the n-word? Racist slaveowners. Who came with homophobic slurs? Homophobic men. So there is no reclaiming anything. Your oppressor came up with those words to demean and degrade you...and they really don't give a damn if you think it's "empowering" somehow. It does not change the connotations behind those words, what they mean and why they were used to begin with.That is exactly why I'm not a fan of the idea of reclaiming hurtful words. I've been concerned that it doesn't ever diminish how awful they are, just that it gives abusers one more thing against their victims. I could see them using the excuse that they can verbally abuse all day long if they want since supposedly the words have less power since they have been reclaimed.I would never call a TiM a bitch because theyd find it validating.Hear hear  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Text:By MADELEINE KEARNSFebruary 7, 2019 6:30 AMThis Week at the U.N.: Feminist Concern about Transgenderism Is MisplacedScotlands highest-ranking politician sides with radical LGBTI activists who advocate gender transitioning for children.Christopher Hitchens used to say that that which is asserted without evidence can be dismissed without evidence. I wonder what he would have made of modern gender identity theory  that quasi-mystical and unfalsifiable belief one has about oneself, which can supposedly override ones biological sex.In any case, thanks to gender identity policies in the U.S., girls who identify as boys are having double mastectomies as young as 13 while parents are being reported to child services for addressing their children by their correct, sex-based, pronouns.Because of gender identity policies in the U.K., males who identify as females are getting access to womens-only spaces  like Karen White, a transgender male who sexually assaulted female inmates in a womens prison  while law-abiding citizens are being reprimanded by the police for tweeting their doubts about transgenderism.And because of gender identity laws and policies, doctors, parents and women across the political spectrum are speaking out to say that enough is enough is enough. Is anyone listening?My home country, Scotland, is proudly progressive when it comes to gender identity. As the serving first minister of Scotland, Nicola Sturgeon is my countrys highest-ranking politician.Yesterday, she was speaking about human rights at the United Nations. I attended this conference and raised some of these concerns with her. I said:My name is Madeleine Kearns. Im also from Scotland, as you will probably hear. My question relates to womens rights specifically.As a journalist, Ive spoken to many feminists  and particularly lesbians  from the U.K. and the U.S. who are very concerned about the implications of legally enshrined gender identity for women and childrens sex-based rights and protections.So, Id like to ask the first minister if she understands woman to mean adult human female or a person who identifies as a woman  and how Scotland plans on addressing some of the obvious concerns that come from this question.Sturgeon replied:Well, this is a very live debate in Scotland right now, as it is across the U.K. and in many other countries. Scotland has plans to bring forward legislation to simplify the process around gender recognition. It doesnt change the fundamentals. It simply makes that process easier. And, I hope, intends to put more dignity into that process for people who are going through the process of changing their gender.The debate would be a lot more live, Im sure, if the Scottish government hadnt decided that criticizing transgender ideology is a hate incident.But at any rate, here she is referring to the proposed changes to the Gender Recognition Act that would allow a person to change his or her legal gender simply by filling out a form, and that could make it possible for minors to change their legal gender, too. She continued:This debate has become, in many countries, very polarized, and I think its incumbent on all of us to try and depolarize it. The reason why I think its important to simplify the procedure around gender recognition is that many transgender people go through extreme difficulties in a whole range of different ways and I think we should be doing everything we can to address that and to recognize their rights and to allow them to express those rights as fully as possible.This, of course, does not address the premise of my question, which related to the definition of woman and concerns related to their sex-based rights and protections for children. She continued:In my view, some of the concerns that are expressed on the part of women and feminists, while we have to listen and understand that, I think many of those are misplaced.She didnt specify which concerns were misplaced or why they are. Instead, she continued:As an ardent, passionate feminist, and have been all of my life, I dont see the greater recognition of transgender rights as a threat to me as a woman or to my feminism. But I think there is a need to bring different parts of this debate together and to try to find the way forward that will respect the rights of transgender people and recognizes and hopefully addresses some of the concerns that are expressed.I wonder if Sturgeon would have anything to say to the ardent, passionate feminists and womens-rights activists whom I recently interviewed for National Review Onlineand who, only last week, were busy fostering transatlantic and bipartisan resistance to legally enshrined gender identity.Or the group of ordinary women from all over Scotland who have come together to fight for womens and childrens rights,For Women Scotland.Later in the conference, a man called Peter Smith introduced himself as the grandfather of Scottish children and asked specifically about parental rights.He said that in some jurisdictions, children have been removed from their parents custody if the parents refused to affirm their self-declared gender identity. (Indeed, only two days ago, I interviewed such a parent living in Spain.)Smith pointed to research conducted in the Netherlands and elsewhere suggesting that over 80 percent of children with gender dysphoria (a marked feeling of incongruence with ones sex) will grow out of it by the end of adolescence if they have not socially transitioned or received hormone treatment.Though this, of course, is to say nothing about the unprecedented surge of rapid-onset gender dysphoria among teenage girls and likely social contagion. And Smith did not go into the grisly details of medical harms inflicted on children who undergo life-altering sex-change treatments and surgeries. Both of these points only strengthen the argument for caution.Sturgeon replied to Smith:Let me say that nobody wants to see children be taken away from their parents and nobody wants to see parental rights not being given appropriate respect, but Im also grateful that the rights of children and young people, and weve been talking here this morning, and Ive been talking about the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, and I think its really important that we also give recognition, and Im not sure that I would quite as glibly talk about young people growing out of things.Why glibly? She didnt say. Instead, she continued:I have had the privilege of speaking to so many young people, including transgender young people, young gay and lesbian young people, and the difficulties and the challenges that they face in being themselves  and they have a right to be themselves  can be considerable, and I think our duty is to help and support them, not make the challenges they face even more difficult.One of the things that Im very proud of, as first minister, was as a country that has a very good record on LGBTI rights and that has become the first country in the world to embed LGBTI education into the school curriculum. And I think that is really important, and its grounded on that respect for the rights of children and young people.The I in the LGBTI acronym represents intersex conditions, known in medical literature as disorders of sex development, which are unrelated to the respective categories of sexual orientation (LGB) and gender identity (T).And what might this mandatory LGBTI education look like? As it happens, I can tell you. Before I became a journalist, I trained as a teacher in Scotland, where I received instruction from an organization called LGBT Youth Scotland, which receives significant amounts of public money from Sturgeons government every year.Our expert trainer (a teacher turned full-time activist) told us that the transgender umbrella ranges from a child who does in their own mind think Wow, this bodys wrong and doesnt fit me to a boy who thinks Im fine with my body, but actually I dont buy this masculine clothing thing.Which is rathera lot of children to be uncritically socially transitioned by their teachers (who, smart and savvy though they may be, are hardly qualified to do on-the-spot psychological evaluations).Indeed, this is a crucial point that is often neglected. Social transition  which is what this trainer was telling us to undertake for any child who claimed to be transgender  is a form of psychological treatment for gender dysphoria.Not just that. It is a form of psychological treatment that typically leads to irreversible medical and surgical outcomes. Britains main gender-identity clinic has seen an increase of over 4,000 percent in the number of girls seeking medical treatment for gender confusion in the past eight years.How many of those girls will be sterilized for life? How many will have their breasts cut off? How many will, like one 19-year-old lesbian I met, feel bitter regret? And what about the parents?Our LGBT Youth Scotland trainer also told us that we should avoid outing transgender children to their parents and, if the child so wished, exclude parents from the process entirely. This approach has the full backing of the Scottish government. And an increasing number of U.S. states  such as New Jersey  have similar guidelines.Excluding parents from serious welfare decisions is particularly concerning given LGBT Youth Scotlands poor safeguarding history. In 2007, their chief executive was arrested  and later convicted  for being the ringleader in Scotlands largest pedophile network and for conspiring to get access to children. Weirdly, though, no one thinks to mention that.Nor do activists lament the treatment that womens-rights campaigner Kellie-Jay Keen-Minshull received for daring to criticize Susie Green, the chief executive of Mermaids U.K. (an English charity that, like LGBT Youth Scotland, aggressively promotes transition treatments for gender-confused youth).After Keen-Minshull criticized Green, on Twitter, for taking her 16-year-old son to Thailand for a now-illegal sex-change operation, Green complained of hate speech. In response, the police launched an investigation into Keen-Minshull.So, there we have it. A quick trip to the U.N. from NROs office to find out that the first minister of Scotland thinks that concerns over gender identity laws and policies are misplaced.Either Sturgeon is ignorant of what is happening as a result of these laws and policies or she doesnt care. In either case, it is high time that she and other world leaders quit their virtue-signaling and dealt with the facts.This would be the same woman that refused to intervene in the case where a student abused a six year old and went unpunished.  Shes not a feminist, shes not even a decent human being.How are there not massive protests happening?I have no idea.  Too many people thinking it wont happen to them, too many people not having any regard for children?  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.I mean. This is still about gender roles (men do this, women do that) not actually about changing whether the rest of the group see and understand you as a 'female person', which you are and you cannot change. It's convenient to conflate the two because most people are going to agree with breaking down strict gender roles and not asked any further, more difficult biology related questions.Also, I would cringe at being asked to use e, ei, em pronouns. What's gendered about the letters t, h and y?  I'd probably respond just as well to being asked to use e, i, e, i, o pronouns.This article felt very voyeuristic and I get the impression she was desperately searching out opportunities to tell people her magical new pronouns. I dont know about you, but pretty much all partner dances, especially folk ones, involve a male and female role.Im honestly wondering if this story wasnt completely made up, or if it wasnt another instance of a trans person explicitly seeking opportunities to a) make people uncomfortable and/or b) be the centre of attention.I get the impression she was desperately searching out opportunities to tell people her magical new pronouns.My thoughts exactly.I have literally never seen those particular pronouns before. Are they new? Does only Maia use them?Note also how NOBODY CARED OR MADE A BIG DEAL OF IT. Because people generally do not.I read them in my head with a French accent because they cant pronounce English h very well, can we ding her for cultural appropriation, too?Missed an opportunity to use do, si, doe pronouns.The e, ei, em pronouns made me laugh hysterically. It actually made me believe this was satire. Why would anyone choose e, ei and em when many English speakers drop the h in the world he?Even better if you assume an accent like Cockney.Oi, oi, and oi'm.Or a, e, i, o, u -- what's gender neutral about vowels? Actually, looking at the word 'neutral,' maybe GN folks should go with 'eu' in all cases.Ha I spent a fortune on English language classes (I'm not a native speaker) and I'm not gonna ignore the grammar rules I spent so much time to learn. As far as I know the language books teach only 3 pronouns, she/he/it, so the best I can do is using "it".Um, i believe the correct term is folx. Be more mindful enby.I go to contra dancing sometimes.  It's pairs dancing but all in a big group and by the end of the night you're supposed to dance with everyone in the room.  The callers say "gents" and "ladies" as the terminology for how to say who does what.  It's pretty normal to not have an exact even numbers of gents and ladies who show up, so it's pretty normal for people to go ahead and switch dance parts, as needed.  More experienced dancers, especially, will learn how to dance the other part, over time.  This isn't anything weird or new.Also, you're not generally talking very much at these dances - there is music, and you have to think about the dance moves and do them.  I do not know the politics of most of the people I've danced with, because there's a lot more dancing than conversation and it wouldn't come up in conversation anyway.Yes. Especially when you're dancing with older people, there are always more women than men. In couples' dances, it's very common for some more experienced women to learn the mens' part too.Thirty years ago, I was dancing with older ladies wearing name tags that said, "BOY."BREAKING: Self imposed special snowflake syndrome causes angst for attention seeker. More at 11.I went to a folk dance, and one of my non-binary acquaintances was there as well. There was a dance where women had to run into the centre of the circle, followed by the men. I kept an eye on her to see what she would do, and she just didn't run into the circle at all.It's funny that this person thought it was a big deal to join the men. In my experience no one cares.I sincerely thought this was satire.  But, alas, it isn't.  The author: Maia Kobabe is a nonbinary, queer author and illustrator with an MFA in Comics from California College of the Arts. Eir first full length book, GENDER QUEER: A MEMOIR is forthcoming from Lion Forge in May 2019. Eir work focuses on themes of identity, sexuality, anti-fascism, fairy tales, and homesickness.An MFA in comics.From the art college in Oakland.Ei are a Hard Times special edition waiting to happen. And ei are either very rich or very in debt.TIL you can get a Masters in Comics.This is one of those times I'm super sad I don't know all of you in real life. Because I want to spend time laughing about this. And there's no possible way to explain it to anyone I know and have them understand.There was a comic convention in town yesterday.  I doubt any of those exhibitors or attendees had a degree of any kind in comics.  It was just a hobby for most.EirOn the first few reads, I kept thinking this was someone's name. Confusing as hell.Yeah, I was like, why does this Norse goddess keep showing up?This made me actually laugh out loud. Thank you.Is this why graduates aren't getting jobs these days?  They're having to invent jobs for degrees which are of no use in the real world?Gender crisis! at the old peoples homeGender neutral contra dancing has been around for decades in New England. Wicked good fun.Lmao what a crisis! These people are fucking exhausting.This is all kinds of adorable because if Maia had spent much time in dance classes e would know there are never enough men and women dance male parts all the time and it is No. Big. Deal.Enbies are hilarious. This is not quite as funny as the one about the wedding dress but that self-introduction is gold.I find them funny too, I hate to admit...they are a reaction against gender identity ideology as well as part of the desire to be "special," and the goth/punk/emo of their generation (only they've replaced angst and dark energy with this actually kind of touching naivete...)However, this comic was really cute (and being in possession of an MFA in creative writing, I'm not going to bash someone with an MFA in comics, although admittedly it sounds hilarious), she did not make a big deal about the age of the dancers, which is very rare (lack of ageism and enjoyment of activities with older people), and that article about the wedding dress was just insufferable and absolutely the worst, whitest, wealthiest type of pretend-oppression imaginable. It was too abhorrent to be funny, honestly, the "identity crisis" of a rich white woman who gasp horror of horrors!--doesn't want to wear frills!That might actually be the stupidest thing I've seen today. Goodnight, internet.This was actually very cute. I loved the drawings of all the elderly dancers and the young tomboyish non-binary dancer.I think her pronouns are supposed to be about trying to find common ground between he and she (e), her and him (em), and his/her/their (for some odd reason): eir ("ir," from "his" and "her," would have been more in keeping for the possessive adjective, but I suppose it just sounds like "her;" then again, "e" just sound like "he," and "em" just sounds like "them," so if she's trying to either have consistent rules about combinations or to avoid confusing people she's not doing a good job of either).Of course the older adults were nice to her, it's a folk dancing group! Have you ever met a folk dancing group? They are the nicest folks in the world!To them, no doubt, this is just the stuff of youth. She could have gone in as a she/her woman and still said she'd like to dance the men's part one day and the woman's part another; she could have broken down boundaries without necessarily announcing anything. I think this is what non-binary people don't understand: gender nonconforming people have been around forever, and it's a lot braver to be your sex and be gender nonconforming than to declare yourself something somehow separate and distinct from others of your sex."Non-binary" is definitely a response to the predominant trans narrative of the young adult generation right now. They accept gender identity ideology, don't see where they fit in, and then decide they must be "non-binary." There were two "non-binary" young women at my former workplace; while one wore man's boots and had short hair, the other had long hair, wore makeup and skirts, and I generally could not see why she considered herself gender non-conforming except that she must have decided she didn't fit the stereotypes about the feminine gender she saw her peers purveying. It's as if a whole generation of people don't understand that everyone is non-binary.I understand it in very young people, but find it unbearable, cringey and kind of inexcusable in people my age.When I was a girl, women would often dance with other women when a male partner wasn't available.  Many were used to the absence of men during WWII.   They didn't think anything about it, they just wanted to dance.  Dancing alone would have seemed weird.This is just stupid.When I was a girlMany were used to the absence of men during WWIIwait.you were alive during WW2 ?Yes, I was born in 1941 so I have an interest in WWII history.  But the practice lived on even after the war.  I was a teen in the 50s and it wasn't unusual to see it happening even then.  Not everything was about sex, it was about learning to dance.Its so odd seeing someone thats over 70 years old being on reddit of all placesI think it's fantastic and really not unusual.It is and I love knowing someone has so as hostabunch is part of our little community but sometimes I get afraid that the elderly could be taken advantage of onlineShe's 70. Doesn't make her stupid. People of all ages get taken advantage of online and IRL. Hopefully she'll tell one of us if she gets an email from a Nigerian prince or tries to spend money on ONE WEIRD TRICK.My dads the same age as hostabunch and could run rings round me for sure.  There have been conmen around since forever, I dont think elderly people are more likely to be taken advantage of online than travellers tarmacking their drive or YOUVE WON junk in the post.This is amazing!! I'm so happy, because HPV can be deadly for women and 90% of Mexican women have been infected with HPV. I'll be drinking to my Mexican sisters' health tonight!Also: Eva Ramn Gallegos is a name I will spread till I die. What a hero!This is amazing news!  For whatever reason, I'm not seeing much talk about it, so I'm happy it got posted here.  The HPV vaccine is a great invention but since the window where it is safe to receive it is so small, this could really change a lot of women's lives down the road (not to mention save some women's lives as well).True! I am always so so terrified of STD's. Female sexual health is a feminist issue!Promising results for sure although slightly misrepresented in the media.  The 100% refers to all the patients in a study of 29 women, which is considered a rather small sample size for a clinical trial.  In a bigger study by the same research team it was less than 100%, although still impressive.This is /r/goodnewsforwomen !!Has this even been covered by any U.S. media?  It seems like it should be plastered all over the place.This is great... I am so happy for all the women this will help, and the women who scienced the cure. :)This is really exciting to see as someone who unfortunately missed her last HPV vaccine (due to being scared away by my crazy aunt)  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Because men are willfully obtuse about reading nonverbal cues, empathizing with women, and thinking abstractly. They want a set of engraved rules about when something is appropriate and when it is not so that they can figure out how to circumvent it and still have their behavior considered acceptable, even when it verges on the dubious.Lmao the only men who will attend that are performing wokeness and probably going to try to pick up chicks. Unless the government starts forcing rapists to go as part of their criminal sentence - which isnt a bad idea  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.I am opposed to any drag performer who acts more like a "exotic dancer" than a burlesque or camp performer. Drag was about being taboo/radical, not vulgar or erotic.I've seen drag kings that obviously had acting chops. The local one basically does a Magic Mike impression and it sucks. Both in style and execution, but for the lesbians who might enjoy it, it's overt machismo and so, doubly sucky.  Ah, that's too bad. I agree with you, I actually don't even like burlesque much (camp can be fun, but like I said, gets boring). I like original performance and don't think that it needs to be hyper-sexualized at all, and in fact find it sexier when it's not, ironically.I love drag king comedy, too. Some drag queen comedy is great as well, but it's hard to find it without that stereotypical "sassy" woman role.Is it normal for drag kings to act like exotic dancers? The ones I have been watching on Youtube are amazing performance artists and dancers (as well as makeup and wardrobe artists, clearly). I haven't seen any drag kings in person yet, sadly. I don't think they even have a presence in my city.No, not normal, but the drag queens do it too. Maybe it's just this troupe, but it's weird and like, a lot of straight women and married couples go. Fuckin heteros... ;)OT: Do you happen to have a link to that essay? I'd love to read it.  Hey! It's an a compilation of essays for a class I teach, actually. I forget the name of the author, but I will try to find it and see if I can find a link to it online for you!Thank you so much! I want to read it myself, but I also think one of my daughters would appreciate it.I quite enjoy drag kings. I haven't seen many (most drag shows have been dominated by drag queens) but the ones I have seen have been pretty great. Most of them have put together really cool performances. One drag king troup I saw did a whole performance of 'Grease Lightning' from Grease, only with a tricycle. It was great.I have zero interest in the scene (even though I am a GNC woman and am attracted to women, including butch women). Im sure its fun, though.Heres what does interest me: Women can do whatever the fuck they want. As a class, we dont harass, abuse, terrorize, rape, kill, mutilate, overpower, over-compete, or subjugate men. Many of us want to escape from them.From here, its an easy compare and contrast essay assignment to discuss drag queens and trans women vs. drag kings.Or, as I heard in class back when we had Womens Studies and not Queer (what about the mens?) Theory: You cant oppress the oppressor.Sorry, maybe I woke up on the cranky side of the bed today.The last drag king performance I saw was a cringy, tired striptease. She was dressed as a priest and tore off the robe to reveal swinging tassels and then did a little anal beads / rosary bit. I don't know why but I just felt sad for her.I don't like drag in general (I know, I should turn in my lesbian card). I've seen it done cleverly like maybe once.And I don't think it translates well onto a woman dressing as a man because the whole joke with drag queens is that it's inherently hilarious to be a woman. I've never had a drag king show me how it's inherently hilarious to be a man. I like the idea of making men look ridiculous by dressing up as one, I've just never seen anyone pull it off.  I HATE the idea of it being a strip performance...drag queens are not! Drag should have nothing to do with burlesque! Ugh.I dont like it if its eroticized, but I do like it if it pokes fun at machismo. Ive thought about doing it and even have a character idea!  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Im interested. Im still not quite sure what a discord is, even though I have the app.Im close to retirement, this makes separatism more achievable once out of the work environment. My wife and I dream about building a small, affordable womens retirement community.That sounds nice, all the luck for you  We really should have one. Or a discord. Something where we can discuss it.Edit: I'd be down for making a discord server if anyone wants to help me run it.I will helpI would like such a place..Me tooI think there was but it was inactive or something  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Oh fuck, that's awesome!Uterine cancer, cervical cancer, warts, so incredible what she's doing!Wow, this is really exciting! This is really going to save lives!Awesome ! Let's keep on fighting this disease by also vaccinating girls... AND boys.Thats amazing. If only there were more women in medical research historically and today; a lot more diseases that mostly affect women would have been dealt with. Thank you, Doctor!I'm super excited about this.I was diagnosed with HPV in my early teens (thanks rapist scum),  they did a kryo,  ALL of my paps since then have came back good.When the vaccine finally came out, I was too old. Now,  women my age can take it (37) but my insurance won't cover it This gives me hope, our bodies are amazing AND scary; I can't wait to see how this plays out in the states (tho the FDA is shit as is our health care).Thanks to HPV I grew a cyst the size of a grapefruit that took my right ovary with it. I was born just a couple of years before the HPV vaccination became mandatory in the US. I never want another woman to suffer like I have.Amazing! Bravo!!! This is a really exciting breakthrough. Wow.Wonderful!Wow!!!!!!  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.This violation of your clearly stated preferences is part of their kink. I would advise you speak on the phone or FaceTime before you meet them. That might help.I second the FaceTime (or any video chat you have) suggestion. This is just a good way to verify the identity of anyone you have been talking to on a dating app.Isn't FaceTime phone number-based? Maybe a different vid/call app that doesn't require you to give out your number? A person willing enough to troll you off the bat will most likely have time/energy to troll/harass you even after turning them down.Ooh good point. I think you can also use FT with google voice. Im pretty sure GV will generate a phone number for you to use but Ive never used it before so idk if you have to pay or not.Skype, discord, zoom  or slack are good for thisGetting over my aversion to phone conversations/facetime etc. would be a worth it in this case. That's a good idea.I feel worried for your safety in general after reading your post.  I'm glad you meet in public places, but yes, please talk on the phone first.This is why I struggle to believe all people who transition are fragile vulnerable people who we should handle delicately.  Someone genuinely dysphoric and unhappy about being male bodied surely wouldn't deliberately put themself in a situation where they are going to be rejected because of it.I've thought about googling them afterward, or following links on their profile to other social media to see if they make sad posts about some evil cis bitch rejecting them again. When I see TIMs talking about getting rejected after a date or several dates for being trans I just think... OK but you could have avoided that in the first place. And if you suggest that it's like "BUT WHAT IF I GET MURDERED?" yeah, what if? Wow, look at that, you can somewhat relate to how women feel about interactions with strange men... strange men like you. :/Yeah, potentially getting murdered on a date is part of womanhood, what the fuck are they complaining about?You wanted it, you got it.I bet that's just how Evie Amati's victim felt. He had the bad luck to encounter a TIM that was rejected and was nearly axe murdered. And LITERALLY nearly axe murdered.One of the scariest videos I've ever seen period.All of them, the two people in the store, the homeless man, and another person who spotted Amati walking towards them with the ax, are lucky to be alive.The same way anyone could? You meet up with strangers, you take that risk.I'm not OPThat is bullshit to get rape-culture pity sex. You don't owe him shit, not even a coffee. He lied to you. There are plenty of libfem handmaidens claiming they would never turn down a tim, let them find one of these girls, or date another TIM if he is so convinced Tims are just like women.or date another TIM if he is so convinced Tims are just like women.Right??!!! There's so much to unpack in this behavior, and I'm not a professional so it's daunting.There is an element of self-harm -- voluntarily subjecting oneself to the pain of certain rejection.There's also an element of martyrdom -- knowingly putting oneself into the role of the "victimized oppressed" when they could just as easily not.And an element of contagion -- they've very likely seen other people post wildly dramatic stories of heroically confronting "terfs" and they want a wildly dramatic story that makes them look like a sympathetic hero too.And a strong element of coercion -- this creepy attitude of "Your sexual preferences are incorrect and, even though you don't agree and specifically asked me not to, I'm here to correct them for you."They may genuinely be dysphoric and unhappy about being male-bodied -- but what they get out of pulling this shit (feeling like a martyr/super oppressed victim who deserves everyone's pity and admiration, feeling like they're part of a larger group or movement, feeling like an activist, feeling a sense of control over an "uncontrollable" other) vastly outweighs the sting of rejection.The rejection may be the painful but essential trigger for all that other fun stuff they like. Maybe for them, being rejected (especially by someone who refuses to acknowledge their magical transmogrified womanhood) justifies the utter shittiness of ignoring her preferences and violating her boundaries -- they invite that rejection so that they can then violate lesbian boundaries without qualms.There is also the social lies aspect.  A lot of TIMs like to lie their arses off about how they blew a cab driver without the driver knowing they were trans, or how thousands of women throw themselves at the TIM all the time.  When you couple such frequent lies with the lies told about the appearance of TIMs - the ugliest TIM will have women pretending he is the most beautiful woman ever - and they all think they pass perfectly because of these lies.  It is actually possible that some of these men really do truly believe they can either pass easily and so trick the person they are trying to date, or that they are so stunningly beautiful they will convert a lesbian into loving dick.There is a fair bit of delusion inside the mind that truly believes it can change sex just by saying "I am a woman," so the idea that they have deluded themselves in dating too isn't far fetched to me.Yep.  Well-said.  Childfree women get this all the time on dating sites:  creeps inboxing them & telling them how wonderful THEIR kids are or trying to convince them they're wrong & will change their minds.  Having preferences while being female in the dating world is not taken kindly by men.  Thank God I'm lesbian (except for this whole transbian thing which is making even being homosexual difficult).Of course they know what will happen. They know that they will make a lesbian feel uncomfortable at best and threatened at worst. They know and they still do it, because that is what they want.No man with an ounce of respect for you or themselves would do that. You owe them nothingJust keep leaving. You don't owe them anything. They're just wasting your time.That's my plan so far, hopefully it works out in the future.You're taking precautions, I see no issue. Good luck :)Thanks. :)Keep leaving. They should not be wasting your time. Block them from contacting you again, this is a man with a lesbian fetish, and he is expecting you to provide him with a live porn experience. He doesn't care what you want.this is a man with a lesbian fetishThis is a man who wants to have sex with a womanTheyre men, men dont care if theyre twice your age, if youve never met them, if you have a boyfriend, if youre a lesbian, if theyre hideously ugly, they still think every woman theyre interested in should give them a chance. And by chance I mean you should have sex with them.Just the tip though right?Maybe this is just the people I know - but there is a recurring theme in my LGBT circles where a trans person describes dating someone who was initially resistant but then was won over by their charisma, intelligence and sex appeal. I hear this again and again. It seems to be a two-fold way of asserting one's sexual magnetism while also saying "cis people don't know what's good for them." So I can see these guys convincing themselves that you'll change your mind.If there was ever a gigantic glaring sign that this is men's rights activism, that's it. Only men boast and brag about sexual coercion and assault."cis people don't know what's good for them."How do you know youre really a lesbian if youve never tried cock?She just needs a good rogering to change her mindYou just havent met the right man yet... except this is TOTALLY different because this time the man is wearing lipstick, which has magically changed the whole dynamic and makes him a delicate little victim.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Big hearts and ignorance.  At least for those I know.  You're right, they're not stupid, but their own desire for everyone to feel good about themselves, for everyone to feel welcome, for everyone to feel like the best version of themself blinds them to the reality of it all.They hear the question "how would you want to be treated if you felt like you were born in the wrong body?" And they think "I would want people to accept me as I felt I was."  They've forgotten about whatever part of their life where they didn't like something about themself or their body.  They forget that they came to terms with it, either accepting those parts of themselves they didnt like or learning to in fact love those parts.  None but the most extreme narcissists loved their bodies exactly as it was their entire life.  We all adjusted to our bodies as they changed over time, or made the cosmetic changes we felt we could.  We did not insist the rest of the world acknowledge us as what we wanted to be (whether its tall, brunette, skinny, different skin tone, etc), we had to acknowledge ourselves as we are.We are also being fed psychological and physiological non-sense that seems fact based enough for people to swallow.  First it was "gender dysphoria is a mental disorder, and the proper treatment is sex reassignment surgery."  Now its not a mental disorder, its a physiologic one.  The male/female brain.  And the only way to fix this medical condition is to accept the person for whatever they say they are.So good, smart, normally reasonable people drink the kool-aid, because who wants to feel like their actions are causing psychological harm to someone else?  Its easier to say "yes, james, transwomen are women.  You are a woman" and go on with their day because they dont notice the legislative and social changes that will affect all our lives.Ill add that most people here have been the biggest cheerleaders at some point. Its usually a wake-up call when some new bit of doctrine starts to directly affect your world view or self-interest. Youre a lesbian and told youre a bigot. You play womens basketball and find yourself facing a man on the court. Your womens scholarship goes to a man. Your rapist says hes a woman now. Weve all got a lot of stories about what changed our minds, but as women we unfortunately very good at prioritizing being kind over being analytical.When I thought it was about how you present yourself I was fine with it.  I'm still ambivalent about that part.  I truly don't care if someone presents as the opposite gender, legally changes their name, etc.  And even though I think hormones and genital mutilation surgery is a horrible idea, its not my business what an adult and their doctor decide to do.It becomes my business when my rights are infringed upon.  When my spaces are taken away.  When the freedoms of women are restricted because policy to include transwomen automatically means loss of protections for biological women.  Plus its the responsibility of society as a whole to try and protect kids.  Putting grade school kids on puberty blockers is not protecting them, its harming them.  If their parents are too stupid to see that then the rest of us have to speak out for them.Some are just stupid, kind but stupid.Lol, well theres always some of those.We are definitely being primed to believe this. Its very clear that financial interests are involved somewhere along the line of pushing this propaganda - whether its pharma (lifelong hormones!) or a transgender person/their loved one who has a lot of money, it exists. Why else would preteens be encouraged to mutilate their bodies and sterilize themselves? Its insane.Even if you buy the garbage that barely any person who transitions regrets it (they are just silenced by the transactivists like radical feminists) this isnt regretting a nose job or even a career choice. You cant always go back to how you were before hormones let alone SRS. Womens voices dont always return to their normal pitch, men definitely cant get the same dick back, not to mention while social approval exists I cant imagine living life as a trans person is all that great except for the male predators who are getting exactly what they want (access to vulnerable women) who are much greater in number than anyone will let on (THEY ALWAYS ARE! who among us hasnt been physically or sexually assaulted by a man? Violent predators are everywhere!)I had an eating disorder when I was younger. I got tacit social approval for being more conventionally attractive but nobody would have called my mental illness valid for real. Imagine if a slow attempted suicide was encouraged by society? My heart weeps for young girls today. Pregnancy certainly isnt desirable for every woman but its more than that - you are taking your body and making it greatly less functional in some ways. It is self-harm.This.  Virtue programming.  Putting the question the other way round is also important: what makes some people able to resist or overcome their programming and take the giant risk of being gender critical?In my case, having a body of well-supported info in favor of GC and Radfem.Being able to come here and have info logically laid out helped a lot. I could take things I've experienced in my own life, or otherwise know to be true about sexism, and see those points made in gc arguments.As others said, it's out of a desire to be nice and being told that acknowledging biological sex is bigotry. TRAs are riding the coattails of other civil rights movements. They're out there saying, for example, that transphobia is just like racism; not wanting a transwoman in your bathroom is just like white women not wanting black women in their bathrooms. Racism is widely accepted as horrifying, and nobody wants to be accused of that. Insinuating that it's comparable to transphobia and that transphobes will be on the wrong side of history just like racists were is enough to shut down dissent real quick.Also, I think some people just always need to be mad and "woke" about something. With the gay marriage issue largely resolved, trans issues filled the vacuum.With the gay marriage issue largely resolved, trans issues filled the vacuum.Yes, people simplistically believe "trans is the new gay, and by golly I'm going to be accepting AF"!Once upon a time I didn't think much about it at all and so when it started becoming more prominent, I just figured what many figure, "It's not hurting anyone, so who cares?"  I never believed, and most people do not believe, not actually not truly.  They don't believe.  But, shrug, it's not hurting anyone, right? So no big deal.  Also, doctors are for it, so.... And the surgery changes things.  And....For the most part it's all because they haven't actually stopped to think about it, not really, not deeply.  Once you dig though you start to see, oh it IS hurting people, a lot of people and holy shit it is actually hurting me without me even realising it, and hell what if one of my daughters becomes/is a tomboy or a lesbian, what is going to happen to them?Also people are terrified, terrified of wrongthink and being burned at the stake for being a witch TERF.I once even wrote a blog post supporting trans people in opposite bathrooms, my logic was sound and I still believe it is, not that it matters.  I didn't believe that trans women are women, but I pretended to for brownie points, to preempt any possible questions of whether I was trans supportive or not, and also to show off my awesome logicking.  It was part fear and part showing off.  It's insane.I am the same way. A few years ago, I would have parroted "transwomen are women!"... TO DEFEND THEM against hatred and bigotry. I never actually believed they were women. But they are humans, deserving of respect and I still feel that way. I thought they were human beings who suffered terrible dysmorphia, and it made their lives a little easier to just blindly acknowledge them as women and be as kind and supportive as possible.However, I didn't realise all the ramifications that would come out of that. Which is the stuff we discuss in GC all the time. I remember when Bruce-fucking-Jenner was named Woman of the Year as soon as he came out, I was instantly livid... Oh great, now they've found a way to even make A MAN the Woman of the Year. A man who has spent his life winning everything. Fucking BS. Get the fuck outta here.They've taken the foothold they got with the kindness  people have them initially and really spun it into something no one would believe possible even 5 years ago all this shit would be ludicrous.Most people are not aware of all the creeping legislation, and at least my straight friends with daughters, when I explain to them what's happening in American schools, they see the logic and the urgency to keep the crazy at bay here (I'm in Australia). I don't know if it's too late or not.We are not immune in Aus, no.  NT quietly changed the laws to allow sex self ID or close to, Tas is trying to push the self ID law through.  Evie Amati, the axe murderer we all know about was in a womens prison, still is maybe? I haven't seen.  So far the men who go to womens prisons are castrated via sex emulation surgery, but if each state allows self ID, that limit won't last long.  And then there is the upcoming political party, The Womens Party........... founded and headed by a TIM.  Safe Schools, great for helping out with normalisation of homosexuality, but it doesn't stop there does it, makes me super glad I homeschool.  And then there is the poor journalist who keeps getting taken to court because she called a man a man - and the courts keep allowing him to do it instead of charging him for wasting their time with such idiocy.  The Uni in Sydney rolling out the all gender toilets because people complained that the unisex toilets weren't inclusive enough.I think the list just goes on and on like that.  New Zealand are fighting really hard right now too and some of those brave women are really getting hated on, it's awful.Thanks for pointing all that out. It really creeping legislation, because I wasnt aware of all that. That Enmore 7/11 where "Evie" Amati attacked people is literally around the corner from where I grew up and I still spend a lot of time in Enmore/Newtown so it was really shocking for me.It's time to get more involved.Yeah not much of it reaches the more mainstream news and websites, if any of them, so it's hard to know about them unless you actively search through specific databases, and you have to know which ones to search.  I only know because I am in Aussie radfem groups on Facebook and everyone shares what they find.  It's amazing how much was just not on my radar before I joined groups like that and even subs like this.I hope you don't mind, I'm going to inbox you, I'd like to join those Aussie Rad Gem groups too.No problem :)Ultimately, nearly every human being wants to be liked. We crave affirmation. I believe that the media is heavily involved in the rapid progression of the trans movement. For what reason? I'm still unsure although I have my suspicions that perhaps other radfems wouldn't agree with. Because the media has been pushing the trans movement so heavily, people don't want to be left out of the current narrative and risk being on the 'wrong side' of history. It's understandable, I tried for years to try to accept that trans women were the same as bio women because I thought that was how I was supposed to think.Although we like to believe we're all independent thinkers, we are so heavily influenced by our environment and the media we choose to consume.I'm interested in hearing your suspicions about the reason behind medias obsession with trans peopleA lot of powerful people,especially in tech, are funding and pushing transgender ideology.  The media gets their agenda from them.Sounds reasonable so far.  Buying networks, newspapers and digital print sites is usually part of the new billionaire starter pack.So why do the tech and other powerful people want to push this agenda?Because they want to. It either financially benefits them or personally benefits them. Possibly both.There's a lot of TIMs in it and they're socially awkward to boot, the field attracts TIMs though because it's easy to be invisible while working and making good money. Add in the whole "transhumanism" bullshit and it's fueled by technocrats. And of course it's a male dominated field so they're going to bring that general gamer vibe, porn, anime, sexism, misogyny,  right into transactivism with them.  And it is ugly.I do believe trans women are more than just men.  But trans women are not women.  Leftism has a problem with the race to accept anything that is non-mainstream.I dont believe they are more or less just men at all because all being a man means is that you have the chromosomes to give you a dick instead of a vagina. Gender is an arbitrary social construct placing man above woman on a hierarchy.I absolutely agree.  It's all in the DNA--even though some people will insist on living their fantasies and fetishes which depend upon sex stereotypes.  Even so, doing that should not rise to a legal existence which affects society itself which is forced to bend itself to those fantasies and fetishes, and which contradicts biology.I think they are "extra" men.  It takes an extramale level of ego and narcissism to think you can claim an identity of a subjugated class, and then demand that subjugated class not only accept, but actively validate, your fantasies.  A lot of privilege goes on, they have little risk. Many have no interest in sports themselves, or won't ever be in a shelter or prison.  Females aren't fighting for the right not to have to share gender norms like attire, they're fighting for spaces free of male dominance and to define what it means to be a female, especially when it comes oppression because of biology. If they're only in relatively safe spaces, have full access to reproductive rights, they won't care about what it's like for poorer females. Add in a lot of liberal people are GNC themselves, so it's not a leap for them to go with whatever their tribe is going for, it's not so much drinking Kool Aid as they have more to lose not going along than they do going along. If they are intelligent a lot of it comes down to weighing risks.  They want to be nice and they dont realize the ways in which it hurts women yet. They figure theres no reason not to go along with it if it helps people and its not hurting anyone. I used to feel this way until I realized that it actually hurts women to go along with this.The brutal rape of a young girl by her uncle has become a rallying point in Sierra Leone for a campaign that has pushed President Julius Maada Bio to declare the prevalence of sexual violence a national emergency. The five-year-old girl, whose identity has been kept secret for her own safety, has been paralysed from the waist down since a 28-year-old male relative raped her a year ago, crushing her spine. "She may never walk again, and I want vengeance for what has happened," her grandmother told the Reuters news agency, sitting next to the girl in her wheelchair in a Freetown medical clinic.The fact that there are people in this world who believe cis privilege is a thing makes me sick. This planet is hell for girls and women, specifically because they are girls and women.I'd crosspost this to r/cisprivilegeisalieOh god, that's so fucking heartbreaking. Poor, poor girl. Bastard needs to suffer.Dont believe in the death penalty except for humans like that one.Who sees a 5yo and thinks either "I want to put my penis in her" or "I want to prove that I can exert power over her by putting my penis in her" ?! It's so sick.For animals like that its euthanasia.No words, glad he is stepping up, and I got dizzy reading about the girl.The poor, poor girl. I have no words really. Apart from that he deserves the death penalty.The president has got it right.  Rape of a minor should attract the most severe punishment.  I wish other governments would recognise this (am still haunted by a case in Northern Ireland where a man raped a new born.  I hope he is lynched).Considering the reaction from most African leaders in regards to rape and abuse of women, this is a big step up for them.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.Completely agree.  Their latest theory for a biological basis for transgenderism is the brain is exposed to too many opposite sex hormones in utero which makes them have an opposite sex brain.  Yet this supposed hormonal imbalance somehow doesn't affect the body at all and these people physically develop normally.  This makes no sense.I agree with you about males having male brains but I thought we all start with both reproductive tracts (wolfien and mullerian) is that disproven now, does anyone know?Not both reproductive tracts, because the reproductive tract is the entire developed system (either male or female) necessary for reproduction.  So in a female it's the ovaries, uterus, cervix and vagina.What we all start with are very simple ducts called the Wolffian and  Mullerian ducts.  Under the influence of proteins produced by genes on the sex chromosomes these will develop into either the male or female reproductive tracts.Ok thanks for the clarification!Yes. Male brains are in male bodies. Ditto female.Most of the differences between the brain residing in a male body and the one in a female body is due to body size, and if there were distinct male brains you'd see a difference in function yet all human children develop motor control skills like walking and cognitive function predictably absent developmental issues. Otherwise, you're subscribing to the old Victorian ideas of women being destined for domestic life and men for public life, due to ideas about the capability. But nothing about your sex says anything as to what a person might be capable of doing or what their personality is like absent the obvious biological difference of having a uterus or not and how that might change your life.On top of that there is the influence of the environment and the body, which differs by sex. It isn't possible that a person is influenced by the reproductive category they aren't born with, knowing you are the sex that can bear a child fundamentally changes your life and a person born male could never understand that experience. It certainly doesn't make women go through their mothers and sisters undie draw to get off, but this is a common narrative to "prove" they are a woman.The hormone idea doesn't wash because the foetus itself produces the hormones which drive sex differentiation, where's these other hormones coming from and why don't they affect the whole body like they do the opposite sex?TRAs doesn't believe that. They believe that male and female brains are different at some innate level and males can be born with a female brain that makes them like makeup and dresses. Coincidently this is the same thing MRAs like Jorden Peterson believe and is an outdated concept that men came up with in the 19th century to deny women jobs and education.Feminists on the other hand believe that a brain is a brain and the structure of your brain is shaped by your experiences and socialisation. Look up the studies done by Israeli scientist Daphna Joel (she also has some lectures on youtube) and read Delusions of Gender by Cordelia Fine.  TRAs claim that their movement is progressive and anti-gender roles, yet their entire argument for trans ideology is based on being born with a "female brain" or "male brain", but with the "wrong body". I see some of them coming on here and spewing that bullshit, and literally every time single time anyone posits what is so blatantly obvious...that trans ideology is just reinforcing sexist gender roles...the answers trans supporters always give end up being either the brain sex bullshit or some ridiculous gender stereotypes.It is really baffling how they reconcile being "progressive" with the patriarchal oppressive shit they use to "support" their stance. Women have fought for so long to not be limited and oppressed because misogynists believe we have little ladybrains that make us only capable of thinking and being a certain way...yet that shit is still rampant. And now it's not only from the horrid right-wing MRA redpiller types, but from people claiming to be leftist and progressive.As for OP's question...yes. Even if their own dumb bullshit was true...the very same testosterone level that gave that male fetus a penis would give him a male brain.  And here we reach what is so laughable about all of this. Their entire ideology just falls apart completely at the slightest of examination.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.When men can be equated with women, and especially those self-identifying and retaining their penises, then why can't other men (I assume the furry employee was male) be equated with tomcats?Undoubtedly, he had "felt" feline for a very long time, and knew what it is to be a cat.A major tech company: I wonder if all that time in cyberspace causes some programmers to lose touch with material reality?Edited for accuracy.Yeah, since it's an anecdotal story coming down the chain from several conversations it's hard to say if its really true.  that said, if it is it wouldn't be all that surprising.  And while this is kind of a slippery slope argument-- as soon as you start legitimizing people's internal realities ("i'm a man but feel like I'm a woman! I demand rights!") what's to stop more and more absurd claims asking for validation?I think the 'non-binary' label did that for trans. It's one thing to alter the definitions of 'women' or 'men' but it really is another step to create an entirely new category that is undefined, yet still requires pronoun acknowledgement etc.Yeah, since it's an anecdotal story coming down the chain from several conversations it's hard to say if its really true.I'm very skeptical.  Maybe they did file a lawsuit, but if so, I'm sure nobody was every worried it ever had a chance.  Probably immediately dismissed.I don't accept Damore's conservative beliefs concerning women, but those statements about furries and otherkin at Google were made in his (Damore's) actual lawsuit. And, if social media internet platforms and mainstream media censure feminists for saying that trans women are men, perhaps they're censuring news about other trans identities that might hurt the transactivist agenda?Edited for clarity.Nobody said a lawsuit, Sam said it was an HR complaint.It sounds a little apocryphal to me since I think a lolsuit like that would have attracted media attention by now. I could buy a furry trying to armtwist HR, but filing suit opens up the complaint to public scrutiny.I'm not going to lie though, if it is true, I want someone to report on it yesterday for the lulz.I just listened to it; Harris didn't say it was a lawsuit. According to the story, the furry just went to HR about the issue.Sorry. Thanks for correcting me. Good that you took the time to do that. But, if it is true, it's pretty far out there that an employee could identify as a cat, and then go to HR to complain that he wasn't provided a litter box in the toilet.I've known plenty of people in tech and believe me, I've seen worse.It wouldn't shock me if this story was true though. Furry is a fetish too and it seems kinksters these days have serious boundary issues and demand to include everyone in it.I wonder if all that time in cyberspace causes some programmers to lose touch with material reality?I have long believed this - too much time in the virtual world severs them from the material world.  And one reason so many trans in tech.There's a lot more at play, but it should definitely be studied and profiled. The correlation is clearly there. From reading how this type of trans develops (tech savvy, not sporty/outgoing growing up, internet as the main source of social interaction, deep interest in anime, heavy porn use, autistic comorbidity) it's a surprise there isn't an alternative diagnosis because it has everything to do with detached isolation and nothing to do with how women are.The media we take in and create for ourselves is powerful; it imprints in the brain, and can even get 'stuck' there, regardless of how fantastic the content."Watch your thoughts, they become your words; watch your words, they become your actions; watch your actions, they become your habits; watch your habits, they become your character; watch your character, it becomes your destiny.I have observed that several of our trans bretheren on Reddit generally have little problem with dishonesty in themselves or others, and are quick to assume dishonesty in others as well. If lying to oneself becomes normalized, it does not seem all that unreasonable then to start assuming that all others do/can/will lie to themselves also.Lol I feel like that story was definitely not true. But still, saying you feel like something you are not is so dumb and meaningless.I would absolutely love if Sam had Megan Murphy on his show. I havent listened to him in a long time, but I remember him being someone who is open to rational debate and he will change his views if you provide a good argument.From what I remember, he does believe in male and female brains and also is not someone that supports radical feminism (hes read Dworkin and just disagrees with her); however, I think he would agree with Megan on some things and be open to a rational discussion with her about the current issues women are facing with trans ideology.That would be a great discussion!Yes, I would love to see a discussion between Sam Harris and Meghan Murphy.I'm a person of faith, and he's a prominent atheist, but I've always found him to be the most reasonable of atheist activists. Also, I really appreciate his commitment to civil discourse...as he says, it may be due to his hours upon hours of meditation.Hopefully her name being brought up twice this week will bring more people researching the matter.In the beginning of the pod rogan says Dorsey will be returning specifically to address censorship on twitter, and rogan is compiling instances of twitter bans to discuss with him.  He is somewhat aware of Meghan Murphy, him and Sam mention it around 5:45, but if he hears from radfems about Meghan and others who have been deplatformed he can ask more pointed questions next time.Reach out.  Arm him with info.I have, right from the time her ban happened. It's just frustrating to see him so readily have Jamie pull up literally anything else yet not look deeply into this aside from asking extremely basic questions to Harris and Pool.Hopefully he will ask some in depth questions next time Dorsey is on.  I sent my emailI wish people would put themselves in our shoes. Im not transphobic. Ill call you by whatever the fuck you want me to. I dont hate trans women. I just dont want to fuck them. Im a lot more lenient than most on this sub. I just believe people should be allowed to do whatever the fuck and although I dont understand it, is it my business to the extent of what they want to do to themselves? Not really.This whole new age philosophy that a trans womens artificial vag/dick is inherently a female body part is harmful to gay women.Im homosexual. I didnt chose to be a homo. I just am. Which means I like the same sex. Which is dependent upon your assignment at birth. Which is whats in your pants. I dont want an artificial vagina. I dont want one made from a penis. I want a vagina.Its homophobia. Years ago we were fighting for the right to be openly gay because thats just how we are. Now we are being told to change how we are.You can be a trans woman, but since you probably lived a large portion of your life as male, you are still victim to male conditioning. All of this lesbians have to like all women bullshit, stems from men policing who and what women are attracted to.I dont hate trans women. I just dont want to fuck them. Im a lot more lenient than most on this sub.A big misunderstanding is conflating trans individuals with trans ideology. If "sympathizing with trans individuals" means "accepting trans ideology", it only follows that not accepting trans ideology is hating trans identified people.We all started being understanding of trans identified people, but realized along the way that trans activist's idea of compromise is a totalitarian takeover of female spaces and the distortion of material reality. When you start to see what it actually entails through laws and discourse, it's hard to be so lenient.Im a lot more lenient than most on this sub.You are very new here. Most of us start out "not wanting to be haters but something doesn't add up." After reading the sub for a while, you see different situations and read various reactions to them. We have wicked smart posters here who are generous explaining the radical feminist analysis.Most of us start out "not wanting to be haters but something doesn't add up." After reading the sub for a while, you see different situations and read various reactions to them.Yep that would be me.Ive been pretty familiar with gender critical theory for an actual longer while. I just didnt want to get banned from subs where I made friends.One day I wake up check reddit, and I got banned from a sub I used a lot for an insufficient reason. So instead of never posting in fear of bans and just lurking, I have nothing to lose.I personally wont change my belief that you technically can be whatever the fuck you want. It may be a poor decision on their part, but I have no right to tell them they cant. Ill use whatever pronouns, because I do believe being transgender is valid, just not transsexual.Now Im not saying theres not smart people on this sub. But if someone wants to be trans and they arent hurting anybody, is it any of my business? No. Same logic applies to my sexuality. You can hate it all you want, but Im not bothering.Modern TRA doesnt not give a fuck about these boundaries however, and is what I have a problem with.it isn't really about individual people and their choices at this point. if it was it wouldn't be an issue. the fact is that there is a powerful lobby group with lots of money trying to expand the definition of woman to include men and this actively hurts women and girls. not to mention all the experiments we're running on kids in the name of transgenderism.I agree with that. But I personally dont think its harmful if they stay out of our spaces.I wish people would put themselves in our shoes.Me too! I've imagined myself as a TIF.  I can understand why they do it, what makes it attractive.  What I won't get is any empathy back from the TRA side, that's for sure.This whole new age philosophy that a trans womens artificial vag/dick is inherently a female body part is harmful to gay women.Yes, and to all women as well.  My vagina is completely different from a surgically made wound in someone's body and it's insulting that they are even called vaginas.Im homosexual. I didnt chose to be a homo. I just am. Which means I like the same sex.Yeah, and the difference between gay people and trans people: they don't want to bother anyone, they just want to have relationships with other homos and be left alone.  TRAs want to reshape reality and change other people.  From what i can tell, for gay people it's about freedom, for trans, it's about control.Yeah, and the difference between gay people and trans people: they don't want to bother anyone, they just want to have relationships with other homos and be left alone.  TRAs want to reshape reality and changeotherpeople.  From what i can tell, for gay people it's about freedom, for trans, it's about control.Spot on!Put a label on it, and people will actually think it's real and not the least bit fake.Sam needs to have Meghan on his podcast. I'm otherwise happy he knows of her and is willing to criticize the dominant narrative on gender ideology.They talked about free speech as it related to trans issues for a few minutes in between defending the Google Memo guy and the Tosh rape "joke". These are all really, really different situations.These guys think of themselves as principled, reasonable defenders of free speech, but actually they're just angry about any time someone gets in trouble for something they said. There's no regard for the situation or the harm that was our could be caused by what was said.Yeah the brief mention was great and will probably have good effects for visibility, but the rest of the talk was pretty cringe. Apparently women need to lighten up on rape jokes, Me too is overboard, and face it there are differences between men and women (fine) like women might just not want to be in tech (ugh).Like... The argument still stands he has a right to free speech but I think we should be putting twelve caveats on support of this pod.Linkwhich begs the question...why is this shit being posted on a radical feminist subShort but Interesting.Murphy also got brought up on the follow up episode today with Tim Pool where they discussed the crazy ass banning going on and the left eating itself. Sometimes productive, sometimes not.I've always thought Sam Harris to be a smart guy!  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.When I was 16, I was struggling with my sexuality and I thought that I was gay.  My friend hooked me up with a friend of hers that was also available.  Well, we got together and we started fooling around, always her touching me.  Come to find out, a MONTH of dating, she tells me that shes actually a TIM.  I felt violated but I didnt know what else to think so I said that I was okay with it even though I felt like I was lied to.  It turned out to be the most manipulative and abusive relationship ever.I don't know. It sounds like he wasn't an active participant in what was going on, which isn't enthusiastic consent. The fact that he 'woke up' means he was HAMMERED, and if someone is that drunk they are going to be like a fish out of water. It's obvious that it wasn't consent. I'm a fan of enthusiastic consent... If one party is sleeping, wasted, frozen, it is not enthusiastic consent.I also believe that we need to have a spectrum of legal terms that surround rape. For example, ee don't just have "murder", there is first degree, second degree, third degree and manslaughter for accidents. And although I don't think that "accidental" rapes happen very often, I do think we need to have terminology for cases that are misunderstandings or miscommunications. (especially because victims can feel violated and raped and it may be lack of education on consent).However, the processing of rape kits show that there is a large number of reoffenders and criminal psychologists believe that rapists are serial sexual predators, that don't stay in their lanes. (a rapist is likely to target adults and children, which is something that we didn't realize before).What about in cases where someone consents enthusiastically, and then something happens during the sex that makes them too fearful to stop the sex? I just think we need another layer and it makes sense to me that you should be able to stop it as easily as you could start it.Any reasonable person would know that guy was in no shape for sex. It actually sounds like he might have been drugged. Not all cases are that black and white though.I fully agree that we need to define some of these gray area cases. They probably happen more often than we even realize since we either define them as rape and are told we're wrong, or we just live with our discomfort over what happened because we don't think it's a big enough issue to be called rape.There are far too many rape kits that haven't been processed to make a determination about rapists, imo.There are far too many rape kits that haven't been processed to make a determination about rapists, imo.https://boingboing.net/2017/12/18/11341-abandoned-rape-kits-ide.html.https://thedaily.case.edu/new-research-shows-know-dont-serial-rapists/Your opinion isn't matching up to objective fact and what criminal psychologists and scientists are now recognizing and rapists. (the 2hr. video by by Dr russell Strand is a great resource and something all women should listen to).I just think we need another layer and it makes sense to me that you should be able to stop it as easily as you could start it.But it is... However, just like enthusiastic consent, you have to communicate it. There is no way that we can make it a prosecutable offence if you consent to someone freely (which why would you consent to someone who's an asshole... And if he was an asshole and coercing you, then, that's assault because of the coercion). Also, it's incredibly alarming to victimize regret or meh feelings. (that's not to say that you have sex and they force you to do anal or they begin doing BDSM, but the law would technically protect against that (there are precedents that are already set about consenting to only particular sex acts and sodomy isn't included)...I don't know. I have been raped, almost raped, I've had to inflict pain on a police officer after I repeatedly told him no. I have had lots of great sex and a lot of "meh" sex. But it's so scary to me to think that consent can be revoked without any communication. I am having a hard time imagining enthusiastically consenting to someone I couldn't say "no" or "stop" to.Oh wow, I had only heard about the high number of untested rape kits, not about those findings. Not sure if I feel better or worse about most rapists being serial rapists.I didn't say anything about regret - I actually hate it when women decide years down the road that the way they feel about it now matters more than the way they felt about it then (speaking about a specific situation here, an old friend who had a change of heart and posted all over Facebook about how her ex raped her because she wanted to impress him at the time). I fully agree that communication is incredibly important.Some people don't show their true colors until they have sex. Some men are meek or kind in every other aspect, and some women are too afraid to stand up for themselves when his hands are on her throat. Sometimes 99% of the sex is good and then he does that one thing that makes you think he's dangerous. Sometimes it only takes one time of them reacting badly for you to hope it never happens again and fear speaking up if they do something you don't like. Sex often isn't cut and dry, and that's why I think we need more protection and definitions when we talk about or participate in these gray areas.That's a good point. If consent can be revoked at any time, you need to be capable of revoking consent for it to actually be ongoing consent.>you need to be capable of revoking consentYou are. I have been in a lot of shitty sexual situations, but even still, I might not be seeing something... but if I am enthusiastically consenting to something, than I imagine I trust the person enough to tell them no. or stop. Thereby revoking my consent.I can't imagine enthusiastically consenting and then NOT tell them they are hurting me. If I am enthusiastically consenting then yes, I should be able to communicate what feels good. The only situation I can imagine being shocked into silence would be a man surprising me with anal or BDSM, and in that case, the precedent is already set (at least in U.S. law) that you only consent to certain acts. Which is why rape by deception is a punishable offense.Continuous Consent, Enthusiastic consent and so on sound reasonable, but get overtaken by the practicalities, which are:There is often a power imbalance, sometimes physical size, sometimes economic or social pressure that make withdrawing consent impossible.There are usually no other witnesses.Courts of law often do not consider conflicting witness statements of "I did not consent" vs "She consented" to be proof beyond unreasonable doubt.  In addition in many jurisdictions its about whether the rapist believed he had consentThere have been several cases, some involving famous sportsmen where women have been injured or killed and the defence was that it was rough sex, or they were indulging in some sort of BDSM play that went wrong.This needs to be turned round. Sex should not result in injury or death.We seem to be in a position that because some people are into that, once someone has consented to sex of any kind the other person has carte blanche to do what they like provided they say it was sexually motivated.We need to accept that when we have sex with others we have a duty of care that we do not harm them.  This is an extremely thorny and important subject.As an example, in some countries I have never been raped. In some countries, I have been raped exactly twice. In at least one country, I have been raped too many times for me to remember.To clarify, for example, in Germany, until recently the victim had to prove she fought back for a conviction of rape, and I assume that is still the case in other countries (never mind the "four male witnesses" in Saudi Arabia). Now they've changed the law to "must have said no" (I assume "stop" counts). In that case, it's twice.However, the most brutal rape I have experienced apparently was not rape in Germany, because it was a surprise attack, and I was in such pain and shock I was unable to say anything at all. I gritted my teeth and tried to concentrate on not passing out, because I was very afraid he would not notice and when he let me go I would slip and fall and hit my head on a hard surface. I was ambushed from behind and completely unable to defend myself, so of course no fighting back was possible.According to German standards still, in all of the cases in which I was groped and molested I was not assaulted, because I froze (a common response) and did not say "no" and did not try to move away or fight, because I physically could not. Even later in life my freeze response was so strong that it took all I had to muster a "stop" and I was unable otherwise to defend myself from the moment that sexual assault was initiated.In France, in which coercion counts in the definition of rape, I don't even know how many times I was raped in my teens, twenties and early thirties. Until I really tried to meet a nice guy, only to meet and date a rapist, I did not seek help to get to the bottom of this so this would never happen again and I would never ever be a target (without having to, you know, become a nun, or compromise my health). It's one thing to understand revictimization intellectually, and quite another thing to do the work to change inside to protect and respect yourself (and forgive and not blame yourself), and hopefully as a byproduct no longer ping sexual abusers' radar as a good potential victim.This is all rather a conundrum. Things I laughed off as a teenager others would look at me in horror if I told them about, smilingly, because to them they were sexual assault of a minor and to me they were just silly things that happened to me and didn't even factor into the long list of serious abuses I'd experienced. I guess I realized my worldview was somewhat skewed. Defining sexual boundaries, enthusiastic consent, and even my sexual orientation and preferences in the future is basically going to entail entirely starting from scratch (which is a good thing, as all that old nonsense needs to go).Some people don't believe in consent because it's essentially the model of an oppressor rationalizing exploitation of the person he is oppressing. The oppressor gets to define the meaning of consent (this is behind all rape laws), obviously not taking into account any real-life behavior (such as the indirect refusals people are accustomed to in any other situation, or the reality of the freeze response when a person feels threatened). Under this model, women are believed to be in a constant state of consent unless it is revoked. Notice with "maintenance sex" in het relationships this holds true, as female partners are expected to give in while when male partners don't feel like it they don't even begin to take any shit and shut it right down (in most cases, I know female-on-male sexual abuse in relationships does exist).Then there's enthusiastic consent. Enthusiastic, ongoing consent sounds great, except when you realize that it's used to promote activities that are harmful to the person consenting, such as BDSM, prostitution and porn. As long as someone is "enthusiastically consenting" to being burned, bitten, whipped, shocked and strangled, there's nothing wrong. As long as someone is "enthusiastically consenting" (to the point of signing a contract!) to a 24/7 master-slave relationship, there's nothing wrong. As long as someone is "enthusiastically consenting" to being anally penetrated by three men while gagged by three more being filmed all the while, there's nothing wrong. (You get where I'm going with this). Never mind the context of the trauma these women may have endured in the past, and the repetition compulsion, low self-esteem, self-destruction, or addiction which may be fueling these desires, and also ignoring the pressure to be enthusiastically consenting to more and more proposed activities, because, as they say, under liberal feminist patriarchy "consent is sexy, and sexy is mandatory."Others argue that consent cannot exist at all in any contractual condition, because it implies that the person cannot change their mind at any time, which is why commercialism cannot be mixed with sex, as when you sign a contract you are legally bound to it, but you cannot be legally bound to commit sexual acts you may change your mind about. "Well, people just quit jobs all the time," you may say, which is true. However, others would argue that you cannot give hypothetical consent through such contracts for acts that have not been initiated in the natural flow of sexual activity, and that since the consent of contractual workers is all hypothetical consent it is null and void. They cannot claim to know how they will feel about a sexual act in the future, so such contracts (as in porn shoots, and often in prostitution) do not constitute real consent. Furthermore, true consent is impossible under conditions of financial coercion because of the power imbalance and pressure present, and the lack of sexual desire (which it seems pro-porn and prostitution advocates do not see as necessary for sex to take place and does not constitute a salient part of consent), so certainly enthusiastic consent does not exist in commercialized sex, only coerced consent can be said to exist, if it exists at all. (Our jobs are coerced consent, after all; we'd rather be doing something else usually, but without money we would starve). If coercion is antithetical to healthy sexual relationships, ergo sum porn and prostitution even in the absence of trafficking, violence and the exploitation of vulnerable persons is not healthy.Still others will say "you don't 'consent' to hang out with your friend on Friday, you want to." A desire model should replace the consent model.However, that still falls prey to being deployed as a smokescreen for enabling sadism and self-harm. I personally propose a well-being model of sexuality. If you would not give your friend ten pizzas to eat, then don't shock your friend with a cattle prod, either. If you would not buy your drug-addicted friend crack, then don't film your friend being hung by her wrists and whipped, either. If you would not drink with your students and then ask them to drive you home, then don't get involved with them sexually, either. If you would not encourage your friend to continue working a job they hate, then don't sleep with them if they have feelings you don't quite return. Try to seek not only desire--much less the bare minimum of consent--but to be actively cognizant of harm, and try to minimize it as much as possible for potential partners, as well as yourself.A shocking idea, I know, and not any fun. Too bad it might make the world a better place.Not that I do, or claim to understand those that do, but what solution would there be for BDSM then? Some small apparatus like a button that triggers a sound?What is the context of your question? Which part of my long-winded explanation of varying notions of consent are you responding to?Enthusiastic, ongoing consent sounds great, except when you realize that it's used to promote activities that are harmful to the person consenting, such as BDSM, prostitution and porn.Reading that now along with what came directly after it makes me think I had the wrong initial interpretation. I was mentally classifying BDSM and abusive sex as very distinct things.With pre-emptive sexual consentn in the form of contracts, I thought you were saying that would make anything that stops the ability to give consent effectively an illegal sexual act. This made me think of standard BDSM stuff like gags and rope.I think that BDSM is a combination of abuse and self-harm. It is quite literally in the name: sadism and masochism.I don't think we should support other people's efforts to self-harm, regardless of whether it feels good. That's what I meant by "if you would not buy your drug-addicted friend crack, then don't bind, gag and shock your friend with an electric cattle prod just because they say they like it."Now, you can say, "but what if you'd buy your non drug-addicted friend crack? Isn't some drug use, like some BDSM, okay in moderation?"I'd say, depends on the drug. I personally think that fuzzy love cuffs and tickling torture and spanking are pretty harmless, even if they aren't for me. I would not encourage slapping, choking, ball gags or bondage with ropes and gags, no. This is fetishizing, sexualizing, and reproducing violence which has ripple effects in both individuals' lives and the broader culture, and which also readily lends itself to situations of actual rape. "Aftercare" is a  fancy BDSM term for "trauma bonding," and "sub space" is the shock/dissociation after being abused. Having actually been abused, I frankly find it insulting people would fetishize this; however, that is my personal opinion. Empirically speaking, it is actually harmful for people's health (trauma-bonding can lead to abusive relationships, and dissociation during frightening sexual experiences can lead to PTSD).I'm not saying anything about "an illegal act," I'm saying it's an unhealthy act. I think we can say certain sexual acts are healthy or unhealthy, just like we can say certain food groups are healthy or unhealthy, without going out of our way to shame people for eating chips and candy or for liking getting bound with rope or pricked with needles.I have experienced directly what another's desire for BDSM can do, by way of the ripple effect. I am not blaming her, as the man she was married to who later abused me was very disturbed, but I was raped by a man whose wife taught him to pull her hair and choke her during anal sex, although he initially protested these activities and thought them "silly." He pulled my hair despite my asking him to stop, choked me without permission, and forcibly raped me when I said "no" to anal sex. I am not saying this was her fault--he was violent to her to and unstable when they were together, he regularly uses and coerces women and is a sexual narcissist, he has his own natural rapey tendencies. But yes, she took this unstable man who didn't want to choke women, pull their hair, or have rough anal with them, and trained him to enjoy that and to make it his go-to way of interacting with women sexually whenever he felt aggressive or aggravated. This is a pretty straightforward example of how your private behavior with a partner doesn't stop behind your closed doors.And yes, BDSM scenes in which you cannot in some way signal your lack of consent entail an automatic lack of consent, as there is no possible way to know if the person has changed their mind.Consent isn't complicated. Rapists and would-be rapists engage in or support coercion tactics while playing dumb and acting as if it's some confusing mess that "any guy" would have a hard time navigating. Coming up with long drawn-out definitions of consent feeds into their rape propaganda.I can buy that there are plenty of men who don't know it's illegal or "technically rape" (because only rapists or would-be rapists would be concerned about how you can rape without it counting technically as rape) to, say, rape a woman when she's so drunk she's in and out of consciousness, but they know that it's not something the woman wants. They know that it's a violation of the woman, and for many of them, that just helps them get off more (the others are "merely" indifferent to women's wants or suffering). For many men (rapists and would-be rapists), what the woman wants is immaterial. Even many men who have never and will never rape a woman do not particularly care about how much the women he's with enjoy sex and is concerned only with whether he likes the sex. It's the same mentality painted with a thin veneer of social propriety.Men don't need to be educated on consent. They need to be prosecuted and socially separated when they choose to violate it.Consent isn't complicated but it can be complex.Who says i'm trying to educate men and would-be rapists? I think it's important for victims to be able to see another side than just "well I agreed to it"I'm aware of "safe, sane, consensual" and I know it's bullshit. BDSM teaches people (specifically men) to ignore the word no. It conditions other people (specifically women) to accept abuse. The more you participate, the more the lines get blurredWhich is completely irrelevant to the point about consent.  Stickied commentWelcome to Reddit's most active feminist community! This is a women-centered, radical feminist subreddit to discuss gender from a critical, feminist perspective. If youre new to gender critical feminism, please familiarize yourself with some of these resources.Please follow the rules and consider if your submission is appropriate for this sub or if it should be posted to a sister subreddit. See our dictionary of common terms if youre unfamiliar with lingo.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.the relevant part of the article:"Ruby Rose has revealed that she is glad she didn't go forward with gender reassignment surgery as she now wants children of her own.Speaking about her struggles with her identity as a youth, the actress and model, 30, explained she was 'glad' she didn't make changes earlier in her life as she would like babies in the future.Ruby - who is currently dating Jessica Origliasso of The Veronicas - reflected on her desires to change gender, saying she was 'glad' to be a woman.Explaining her mentality as a youngster, she said: 'All I wanted was a boy's name growing up - Charlie, Billie, Max, Frankie. You just know my mum wanted a girly girl princess! She added: 'Everyone had Barbies; I had ninja turtles and Superman... I was crazy about Archie comics and I played footie with the boys.'But the model and actress admitted that she may have regretted making pemanent physical changes at that age, as she explained she was happy being a woman.Talking about accepting her body and finding happiness with it, she said revealed that one day she hoped to have children.'I'm a woman,' she said. ' want to have babies one day, so I'm glad I didn't make changes earlier in my life.'"I wish more libfems said stuff like this, it's important "queer" kids hear it from someone they perceive as a part of their community and not just us "evil terves". I wonder if she got any shit for saying it too.Who knows if she's actually a libfem? Might be a rad but won't admit it as it would end her career in the current "progressive" climate obviouslyShe is only a few years older than